

1201 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: The Great Falls: Power For Another Revolution?

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE MROZ

DATELINE: Paterson 

 BODY:
 MORE than 200 years ago, during the Revolutionary War, Alexander Hamilton was traveling with Gen. George Washington when the men stopped with their entourage to have a meal in front of a magnificent waterfall. As they ate and drank, the precocious 23-year-old Hamilton saw in the power of the falls an engine of post-Colonial development for the nascent nation. 
 These Great Falls, as they are called now, plunge 77 feet over a shelf of basalt. They are a natural wonder in New Jersey but one about which most residents remain completely ignorant. For decades, these falls, the largest ones in the Northeast after Niagara Falls, powered manufacturing plants here to create the cradle of the industrial revolution in an America trying to become less dependent on British manufacturers.
 But in recent years, this historically significant landmark has fallen into a state of neglect. The city, with its myriad urban problems, is not exactly a magnet for tourists. Visitors are few and far between. 
 Now, Paterson will have a chance to reclaim its faded glory. Last week, the House approved legislation designating the Great Falls historic district as the newest addition to the National Park System. The bill is expected to be signed by President Obama as early as this week. 
 The vote is the culmination of decades-long efforts by local officials to transform the historical site into a national entity. Once the bill is signed, it will be known as the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park.
 ''We have finally done it,'' said Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a former Paterson mayor who many say has been the driving force behind the campaign to turn the Great Falls Historic District into a National Historical Park. ''Paterson will finally be recognized for the seminal role it has played in shaping American history. This marks an historic moment for the city of Paterson and the state of New Jersey. This place is a hidden jewel -- the history here is so rich, and this city really deserves this kind of recognition. 
 ''There's no place else like it in the United States,'' he said.
 When Alexander Hamilton founded Paterson, his dream was to harness the power of the falls through a water raceway system and make the city one of the most important industrial centers in the country. And for a time it was, with the raceways driving silk mills and, later, factories for locomotive parts.
 But over the years, the mills closed and vital businesses left the city. Today, Paterson is a postindustrial city struggling with drugs, crime and unemployment. Yet the heart of this gritty city still lies at the majestic Great Falls. Local officials have long sought greater recognition for the beauty and historic significance of the site. 
 Anyone touring Paterson can see the potential that Hamilton found in those falls. The water raceway system is still visible around the falls, as are many of the mills built to take advantage of them.
 When they walk the footbridge that spans the falls, they can feel the force of the water rushing down as the spray hits their faces. As they look around, they see trees and quiet woodland.
 ''When you are on the grounds of the park, you don't think that you're in the third-largest city in the state,'' Mayor Jose Torres of Paterson said. ''There are very few cities that can boast natural beauty and a quiet forested area. I think it's New Jersey's best kept secret.''
 But the park around the falls has fallen into a state of disrepair. There is a parking lot and small visitor center, but not much else. Despite this, there is still a trickle of visitors to the site. 
 On a recent blustery weekday, Kathleen and Michael Rogers of Summit made a trip with their children to check out the falls. They said that they had never known about the falls, until Mrs. Rogers discovered them while reading ''Paterson,'' the famous epic poem by William Carlos Williams, who used the falls as inspiration:
 ''That the poem,
 the most perfect rock and temple, the highest 
 falls, in clouds of gauzy spray, should be
 so rivaled ... ''
 One measure of the significance of the falls can be found in the number of writers who found inspiration there. 
 John Updike set his novel ''In the Beauty of the Lilies'' there, and used his impression of the power of the Great Falls in his story, about a Presbyterian minister in Paterson who awakens one morning to find he has lost his faith: ''At times ... the roar of the falling water would penetrate his mind as a constant tumult underlying those of riot and catcall, rally and parade ... The falls remained an essentially wild thing at Paterson's heart.''
 In another literary link, the Beat poet Allen Ginsberg, who grew up in Paterson, claimed at a poetry reading in 1966 to have smoked marijuana at the falls, causing the mayor to issue a warrant for his arrest. A photo from the time shows him in front of the waterfall. ''High over Paterson Falls'' is scrawled on the back.
 Local officials hope that the falls' cultural and historical legacy will draw more visitors. In 2004, the Great Falls were designated a state park and New Jersey has pledged $10 million to improve the site. Work is set to begin this spring on an amphitheater, with the falls as a backdrop, for concerts and other events. Plans also call for a cafe and a public plaza at the foot of the waterfalls, as well as kayaking, fishing, hiking and rock climbing.
 The city also hopes that it will benefit from the money coming into the district from visitors, as well as newly created jobs. Artists' housing surrounding the park and a new parking garage are planned, and officials are optimistic that the improved site will support local restaurants and cafes.
 ''Paterson is unique because it's a national historic landmark as well as a national natural landmark,'' said John S. Watson Jr., the deputy commissioner for the Department of Environmental Protection, which oversees state parks. ''This place is steeped in history. We thought a state park was such a great opportunity to establish Paterson as a destination, where people would come to from all over.'' 
 That history includes technological and industrial advancements, like the invention of the Colt revolver, the construction of one of the earliest submarines, built in the 1870s, as well as the use of water power for industry. Power is still being generated by the falls, through a hydroelectric plant, and city officials hope to use it eventually to light the new park there.
 ''A national park at this site could really teach us some important lessons about how our country was established,'' said Ed Smyk, the Passaic County historian.
 Last Wednesday's House vote also designated the Edison National Historic Site in West Orange as the Thomas Edison National Historical Park. The park includes Mr. Edison's residence and laboratory. 
 Morristown currently has the only National Historical Park in the state.
 ''This is going to help change the public's perception of what Paterson is,'' said Mayor Torres. ''This is a much better place than it was three to four decades ago. Crime is the lowest it's been since 1965.''
 Mr. Smyk said that city officials had sought national historic status since the 1960s. 
 ''What a national park does is it cements the site in the public's conscience,'' Mr. Smyk said. ''Could you imagine what this would do for Paterson with the superior resources of the Park Service?''
 A national park could be a draw for schoolchildren, Mr. Smyk said. ''The state is so deficient in the way it teaches New Jersey history,'' he said. ''But imagine if teachers were aware of the Great Falls National Historical Park, and imagine all of the possibilities for using it to teach children.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BIG SPLASH: Paterson hopes that having the Great Falls designated as a National Historical Park will provide a major economic boost. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ1)
 HYDRO POWERED: Plans for the Great Falls site include a trail past an old industrial site, above. Mayor Jose Torres of Paterson, left, hopes the park will revitalize his city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); CITIES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (87%); HISTORY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%)

PERSON: BILL PASCRELL JR (70%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1202 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Reached To Raise Taxes On Top Earners

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and leaders of the Legislature have reached a deal to temporarily raise taxes on New York's highest earners in order to close the state's yawning budget deficit, lawmakers and officials involved in the talks said on Saturday.
 The new plan, which would expire after three years, would represent the largest state income tax increase in recent history, significantly larger than the surcharges imposed from 2003 to 2005, when the state last faced a major recession. 
 The plan would raise $4 billion a year by creating two new tax brackets, the highest one affecting those who earn $500,000 or more. If approved by rank-and-file lawmakers in the Assembly and State Senate, the tax increases would be a major victory for unions and liberal advocacy groups and a signal of the new balance of power in Albany, where Democrats won control of both houses of the Legislature and the governor's office in last year's election.
 Although the proposed tax has been called a ''millionaires' tax,'' it would affect those with incomes starting at $300,000, who would be taxed at a rate of 7.85 percent. The highest bracket would carry a tax rate of 8.97 percent -- the same as New Jersey's current highest rate.
 Officials said that Mr. Paterson, who has argued for months that new income taxes should be a last resort in balancing the budget, accepted the plan after winning significant spending cuts in areas like health care and education.
 Mr. Paterson's willingness to accept the new taxes reflects, in part, how rapidly the state's finances are deteriorating. Since proposing his budget in December, projected tax revenues for the fiscal year beginning April 1 have dropped by $3.2 billion, while rising Medicaid caseloads will cost $750 million more than originally projected for this year and next year. That shift has left Mr. Paterson and lawmakers with little choice but to employ every possible mechanism to shrink budget gaps.
 But the deal also reflects the leverage held by Sheldon Silver, the powerful Assembly speaker, over both Mr. Paterson, whose public approval ratings are low, and Malcolm A. Smith, the Senate leader, whose 32-to-30 Democratic majority has proved difficult to steer. 
 Mr. Smith's conference had hoped for a more radical overhaul of income taxes, one that would have created as many as nine brackets and raised as much as $5 billion, some of which could have been used to offset property taxes for homeowners -- a major concern for upstate and suburban voters in swing districts. Senate Democrats said Mr. Silver balked at the idea of using any income tax increase to offset property taxes, and Assembly officials said the Senate's plan was not workable and its financial projections were inaccurate.
 However, in a concession to Senate Democrats, Mr. Silver agreed to allow the new taxes to be phased out after three years, rather than the five years he had originally advocated -- a time period that would have created enormous political pressure to maintain the increase indefinitely. In a concession to Mr. Paterson, who favored a simpler structure, the three-bracket rate favored by Mr. Silver was reduced to two.
 ''Raising the personal income tax is going to make it harder for New York to recover economically,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, the deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission. 
 Currently, New York's highest tax rate, 6.85 percent, kicks in for couples and joint filers making more than $40,000. 
 ''It's a profound breakthrough for tax fairness,'' said Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party. ''The era of phony prosperity has ended, and a new era of real shared sacrifice must begin.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SUBURBS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1203 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: Speaking Freely, Sometimes, Biden Finds Influential Role

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. meet for their standing Friday lunch engagement, Mr. Obama always picks the cuisine -- a subtle break from previous administrations in which the president and the vice president typically ordered off a menu, and a reminder, if any was needed, about who is in charge. 
 ''The dietary bar is set by the president,'' said Ron Klain, Mr. Biden's chief of staff, who recently fielded a prelunch query from the White House kitchen about whether Mr. Biden wanted sour cream with his tacos (he did). ''Biden eats anything. He's a pretty easy guy that way.''
 The description (''Biden eats anything'') extends to the heaping plate of policy assignments the vice president has been served in recent weeks. He has been charged with overseeing the distribution of the $787 billion authorized by the economic stimulus bill, heading the White House's ''middle-class task force'' and jumping into any number of treacherous diplomatic arenas, from Pakistan to Capitol Hill. 
 Officials involved in the deliberations said Mr. Biden had been influential in Mr. Obama's development of a new approach to Afghanistan, announced Friday, arguing for a relatively limited increase of military, diplomatic and economic involvement. 
 Mr. Biden has settled into a role of what Mr. Obama compares to a basketball player ''who does a bunch of things that don't show up in the stat sheet,'' the president said in an interview Friday. ''He gets that extra rebound, takes the charge, makes that extra pass.''
 Mr. Biden's reputation for windiness, self-regard and unrestrained ambition have long prompted some degree of eye-rolling around him and probably always will. But what has been striking to many in the administration has been how strenuously the president has worked to include him and, perhaps most notably, the influence Mr. Biden appears to be wielding. 
 Top aides say it has become customary for Mr. Obama to solicit Mr. Biden's opinion at the end of meetings. But his views by no means always carry the day. At one January meeting to discuss the budget, Mr. Biden railed that the government was in no fiscal shape to pursue a health care overhaul this year -- to the dismay of many present and others who heard about it. 
 The vice president later backed off, but Mr. Obama -- who disagreed strongly with the view -- has come to see Mr. Biden as a useful contrarian in the course of decision-making. 
 Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said that ''when there's group-think going on, the vice president tends to push the envelope in the other direction.''
 Members of Mr. Biden's staff said, however, that Mr. Biden would not be made available for an interview for this article. But they helped make others available to testify on his behalf: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Obama, who took a few minutes on a day when he was setting a new course for the war in Afghanistan to express appreciation for, among other things, Mr. Biden's willingness to speak his mind.
 ''There's, I think, an institutional barrier sometimes to truth-telling in front of the president,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Joe is very good about sometimes articulating what's on other people's minds, or things that they've said in private conversations that people have been less willing to say in public. Joe, in that sense, can help stir the pot.''
 Mr. Biden's colleagues in the administration -- and former ones in the Senate -- describe him with fondness, often as ''Joe,'' and catalog his old-fashioned kindnesses (he sent a two-page note to the wife of Education Secretary Arne Duncan after meeting her at Mr. Duncan's introductory news conference). 
 But they also acknowledge that the verbose vice president has struggled to adjust at times to working within a White House that prizes discipline.
 During the fall campaign, Mr. Obama's aides -- usually David Axelrod, the media strategist, and David Plouffe, the campaign manager -- spent considerable time on the phone with Mr. Biden and his staff over remarks that they had deemed unhelpful. Mr. Biden listened and saluted smartly.
 ''He was a good soldier,'' said Senator Ted Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, who had been Mr. Biden's Senate chief of staff before being appointed to his old boss's seat. ''But I sat with him. That was hard, that was hard. He has all these ideas.'' 
 Mr. Biden's public statements and appearances have been closely monitored inside the administration, and at times fretted over. ''Like every single human being, his strength is his weakness, his weakness is his strength,'' said Mr. Axelrod, now Mr. Obama's senior adviser at the White House. ''I think the strength outweighs the weakness to a large degree. And it's all related to someone who speaks his mind and is forthright.''
 Mr. Biden has taken steps to rein himself in -- or others have insisted on it. He has begun to use a teleprompter more. He often uses note cards to stay focused while presiding over meetings. He has given few interviews since Election Day, and those have focused mainly on discrete policy topics.
 ''He knows a lot, and he is extremely experienced,'' Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Biden, with whom she has breakfast each Tuesday. ''I think sometimes he has to be a little aware he could literally educate the rest of us on an issue for a long time.''
 To some extent, the question of ''What about Joe?'' has hung over the Obama operation from the day he joined the Democratic ticket last summer. Mr. Biden, 66, was seen as an odd fit -- a Senate lifer on a team bent on changing politics, a loose cannon in a laser-guided message machine.
 On his campaign bus in Ohio last fall, Mr. Biden recounted what Mr. Obama told him when he asked him to be his running mate. ''I want you to view this as the capstone of your career,'' Mr. Obama said, according to Mr. Biden. To which Mr. Biden quipped: ''And not the tombstone.''
 (Keeping with the stone metaphor in the interview, Mr. Obama credits Mr. Biden as not using the vice presidency as ''a stepping stone.'')
 Before he took the job, Mr. Biden sought assurances that his would not be just a ceremonial position and that he would have substantive assignments. Mr. Obama envisioned his vice president as having a role distinct from the last two -- Dick Cheney, who was his own power center in the White House, and Al Gore, who took on signature issues and assignments like the environment and government reform that he hoped would help his anticipated run for president. 
 Mr. Obama wanted his No. 2 to be a kind of uber-adviser and interdisciplinary trouble-shooter. ''Joe and I agreed that I wasn't going to be handing him one narrow portfolio,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Early indications are that the partnership has evolved as they had imagined. ''I think he's playing the role as 'adviser in chief' that he has foreseen,'' Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Biden, adding that he was ''involved in the whole agenda of the president.'' 
 When both men are in town, Mr. Biden regularly makes the 17-step walk from his West Wing office to the president's. They speak by phone (communicating rarely if ever by e-mail), and Mr. Obama will spontaneously call and ask the vice president to join him in meetings. 
 Mr. Biden attends Mr. Obama's morning briefings on national security and the economy. He has full access to the president's schedule and is free to attend anything. 
 People close to Mr. Obama said he had come to appreciate his vice president'sloyalty, practical view of politics and connection with working-class voters. The president, they said, finds Mr. Biden reminiscent -- in a good way -- of a lot of the ethnic politicians who pervaded an older generation in Chicago. 
 Mr. Biden also has a different approach to group decision-making, which Mr. Obama believes adds value to the undertaking. Mr. Biden is inclined to throw notions on the table and think out loud, which contrasts with Mr. Obama's more deliberate, restrained style.
 In public, Mr. Biden is by turns self-deprecating and self-aggrandizing. ''Please sit down, I'm only the vice president,'' he said, pooh-poohing a standing ovation before a recent ceremony in which he introduced the new White House drug czar.
 He then detailed his extensive background in drug prevention. ''I wrote what used to be called the Biden Crime Bill back in the '90s,'' he said. 
 Mr. Biden betrays a giddiness at his current station (jokingly inviting strangers to ''come take a ride on my plane'') while speaking often about the hardships of his past (surviving two brain aneurysms, enduring the aftermath of the 1972 car crash that killed his first wife and infant daughter). 
 Senator Kaufman said, ''Ask me who's the luckiest person I know, I'd say Joe Biden. And if you ask me who's the unluckiest, I'd say Joe Biden.''
 Like Mr. Cheney was, Mr. Biden is assumed to be in his last elected office. But friends of Mr. Biden -- who has twice run for president -- said he was not necessarily cured of his Oval Office fever. ''I can't believe that he won't think about it,'' Mr. Kaufman said, adding that Mr. Biden has ''totally sublimated'' any such thoughts for now. 
 The vice president will be 74 in 2016. ''We're not ruling anything in or out,'' said Jay Carney, a spokesman for Mr. Biden.
 No one in the Obama administration would present Mr. Biden as the sleek new thing in American politics. ''I understand that he's not the classic 21st-century, blog-era communicator,'' said Mr. Klain, the vice president's chief of staff. ''But a lot of the country is where he is, and a lot of the country connects with his public presentations.''
 Speaking to employees recently at a bus manufacturer in St. Cloud, Minn., Mr. Biden invoked his father, a car salesman, who ''had to make that long walk up a very short flight of stairs'' to deliver the news to his family that he had lost his job. Several people in the audience could be seen wiping tears from their eyes. 
 After leaving the plant, Mr. Biden went to the airport by motorcade and lingered on the tarmac for several minutes. He greeted area residents and offered everyone that ride in the back of his big plane.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The influence Vice President Biden wielded in the debate on Afghan war policy is a signal of his stature in the administration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Rahm Emanuel, White House chief of staff, said that ''when there's group-think going on,'' the vice president, above at a recent cabinet meeting, ''tends to push the envelope in the other direction.''
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s motorcade at the West Wing of the White House.
 Family photos on Mr. Biden's desk in his office at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); BUDGETS (73%); BASKETBALL (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); RON KLAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1204 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: VAST SPY SYSTEM LOOTS COMPUTERS IN 103 COUNTRIES

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
A vast electronic spying operation has infiltrated computers and has stolen documents from hundreds of government and private offices around the world, including those of the Dalai Lama, Canadian researchers have concluded.
 In a report to be issued this weekend, the researchers said that the system was being controlled from computers based almost exclusively in China, but that they could not say conclusively that the Chinese government was involved. 
 The researchers, who are based at the Munk Center for International Studies at the University of Toronto, had been asked by the office of the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader whom China regularly denounces, to examine its computers for signs of malicious software, or malware. 
 Their sleuthing opened a window into a broader operation that, in less than two years, has infiltrated at least 1,295 computers in 103 countries, including many belonging to embassies, foreign ministries and other government offices, as well as the Dalai Lama's Tibetan exile centers in India, Brussels, London and New York. 
 The researchers, who have a record of detecting computer espionage, said they believed that in addition to the spying on the Dalai Lama, the system, which they called GhostNet, was focused on the governments of South Asian and Southeast Asian countries. 
 Intelligence analysts say many governments, including those of China, Russia and the United States, and other parties use sophisticated computer programs to covertly gather information. 
 The newly reported spying operation is by far the largest to come to light in terms of countries affected. 
 This is also believed to be the first time researchers have been able to expose the workings of a computer system used in an intrusion of this magnitude. 
 Still going strong, the operation continues to invade and monitor more than a dozen new computers a week, the researchers said in their report, ''Tracking 'GhostNet': Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network.'' They said they had found no evidence that United States government offices had been infiltrated, although a NATO computer was monitored by the spies for half a day and computers of the Indian Embassy in Washington were infiltrated.
 The malware is remarkable both for its sweep -- in computer jargon, it has not been merely ''phishing'' for random consumers' information, but ''whaling'' for particular important targets -- and for its Big Brother-style capacities. It can, for example, turn on the camera and audio-recording functions of an infected computer, enabling monitors to see and hear what goes on in a room. The investigators say they do not know if this facet has been employed. 
 The researchers were able to monitor the commands given to infected computers and to see the names of documents retrieved by the spies, but in most cases the contents of the stolen files have not been determined. Working with the Tibetans, however, the researchers found that specific correspondence had been stolen and that the intruders had gained control of the electronic mail server computers of the Dalai Lama's organization. 
 The electronic spy game has had at least some real-world impact, they said. For example, they said, after an e-mail invitation was sent by the Dalai Lama's office to a foreign diplomat, the Chinese government made a call to the diplomat discouraging a visit. And a woman working for a group making Internet contacts between Tibetan exiles and Chinese citizens was stopped by Chinese intelligence officers on her way back to Tibet, shown transcripts of her online conversations and warned to stop her political activities. 
 The Toronto researchers said they had notified international law enforcement agencies of the spying operation, which in their view exposed basic shortcomings in the legal structure of cyberspace. The F.B.I. declined to comment on the operation. 
 Although the Canadian researchers said that most of the computers behind the spying were in China, they cautioned against concluding that China's government was involved. The spying could be a nonstate, for-profit operation, for example, or one run by private citizens in China known as ''patriotic hackers.'' 
 ''We're a bit more careful about it, knowing the nuance of what happens in the subterranean realms,'' said Ronald J. Deibert, a member of the research group and an associate professor of political science at Munk. ''This could well be the C.I.A. or the Russians. It's a murky realm that we're lifting the lid on.'' 
 A spokesman for the Chinese Consulate in New York dismissed the idea that China was involved. ''These are old stories and they are nonsense,'' the spokesman, Wenqi Gao, said. ''The Chinese government is opposed to and strictly forbids any cybercrime.'' 
 The Toronto researchers, who allowed a reporter for The New York Times to review the spies' digital tracks, are publishing their findings in Information Warfare Monitor, an online publication associated with the Munk Center. 
 At the same time, two computer researchers at Cambridge University in Britain who worked on the part of the investigation related to the Tibetans, are releasing an independent report. They do fault China, and they warned that other hackers could adopt the tactics used in the malware operation. 
 ''What Chinese spooks did in 2008, Russian crooks will do in 2010 and even low-budget criminals from less developed countries will follow in due course,'' the Cambridge researchers, Shishir Nagaraja and Ross Anderson, wrote in their report, ''The Snooping Dragon: Social Malware Surveillance of the Tibetan Movement.''
 In any case, it was suspicions of Chinese interference that led to the discovery of the spy operation. Last summer, the office of the Dalai Lama invited two specialists to India to audit computers used by the Dalai Lama's organization. The specialists, Greg Walton, the editor of Information Warfare Monitor, and Mr. Nagaraja, a network security expert, found that the computers had indeed been infected and that intruders had stolen files from personal computers serving several Tibetan exile groups. 
 Back in Toronto, Mr. Walton shared data with colleagues at the Munk Center's computer lab. 
 One of them was Nart Villeneuve, 34, a graduate student and self-taught ''white hat'' hacker with dazzling technical skills. Last year, Mr. Villeneuve linked the Chinese version of the Skype communications service to a Chinese government operation that was systematically eavesdropping on users' instant-messaging sessions. 
 Early this month, Mr. Villeneuve noticed an odd string of 22 characters embedded in files created by the malicious software and searched for it with Google. It led him to a group of computers on Hainan Island, off China, and to a Web site that would prove to be critically important. 
 In a puzzling security lapse, the Web page that Mr. Villeneuve found was not protected by a password, while much of the rest of the system uses encryption. 
 Mr. Villeneuve and his colleagues figured out how the operation worked by commanding it to infect a system in their computer lab in Toronto. On March 12, the spies took their own bait. Mr. Villeneuve watched a brief series of commands flicker on his computer screen as someone -- presumably in China -- rummaged through the files. Finding nothing of interest, the intruder soon disappeared. 
 Through trial and error, the researchers learned to use the system's Chinese-language ''dashboard'' -- a control panel reachable with a standard Web browser -- by which one could manipulate the more than 1,200 computers worldwide that had by then been infected. 
 Infection happens two ways. In one method, a user's clicking on a document attached to an e-mail message lets the system covertly install software deep in the target operating system. Alternatively, a user clicks on a Web link in an e-mail message and is taken directly to a ''poisoned'' Web site. 
 The researchers said they avoided breaking any laws during three weeks of monitoring and extensively experimenting with the system's unprotected software control panel. They provided, among other information, a log of compromised computers dating to May 22, 2007. 
 They found that three of the four control servers were in different provinces in China -- Hainan, Guangdong and Sichuan -- while the fourth was discovered to be at a Web-hosting company based in Southern California. 
 Beyond that, said Rafal A. Rohozinski, one of the investigators, ''attribution is difficult because there is no agreed upon international legal framework for being able to pursue investigations down to their logical conclusion, which is highly local.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Toronto academic researchers who are reporting on the spying operation dubbed GhostNet include, from left, Ronald J. Deibert, Greg Walton, Nart Villeneuve and Rafal A. Rohozinski. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM LEYES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) MAP: THE VAST REACH OF 'GHOSTNET': Researchers have detected an intelligence gathering operation involving at least 1,295 compromised computers. Below, the locations of 347 of the compromised machines, many of which were tracked to diplomatic and economic government offices of South and Southeast Asian countries. (Source: Information Warfare Monitor) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); CYBERCRIME (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNET CRIME (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PHISHING (69%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (93%); ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1205 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's President Praises Obama and Offers New Concession to the Opposition

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Carlotta Gall contributed reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
In an address to a joint session of Parliament, President Asif Ali Zardari promised Saturday to ease domestic political turmoil and praised the Obama administration's new policy to Pakistan as ''positive change.''
 In a conciliatory gesture to the opposition party, Pakistan Muslim League-N, Mr. Zardari said that he would lift the executive rule he had imposed on Punjab Province, the most populous province in Pakistan and one where the opposition party holds the most seats in the legislature.
 The announcement by Mr. Zardari was seen as another major concession after the opposition party led huge street demonstrations, forcing the president to agree to the restoration of the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who had been removed from the bench in 2007. 
 In phrases that were most likely intended to please Washington, Mr. Zardari said that Pakistan needed to ''root out extremism and militancy.'' He welcomed the new package of $7.5 billion for civilian assistance over five years formally announced by President Obama on Friday.
 The increased American aid showed that Washington agreed with Pakistan that the best way to fight extremism was through alleviating poverty, Mr. Zardari said.
 ''It is an endorsement of our call for economic and social uplift as a means to fight extremism,'' he said. 
 This was in implicit contrast to the eight years of rule by Pervez Musharraf, a former general, when almost all of the $10 billion in American assistance to Pakistan went to the army.
 As he has in the past, Mr. Zardari stressed that Pakistan needed to fight the escalating extremism for its own good, a way of deflecting vocal Pakistani critics of the alliance with the United States. Mr. Zardari as much as said the fight against the militants was Pakistan's fight, not America's fight. ''We are fighting militancy and extremism for our own sake,'' he said.
 Separately on Saturday, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan commended the Obama administration's strategic review, saying it matched the aspirations of the Afghan people and the views of his own government.
 ''It is exactly what the Afghan people were hoping for,'' Mr. Karzai told reporters at a news briefing in the presidential palace in Kabul. ''It has our full support and backing.''
 In particular, Mr. Karzai said he was happy to see Mr. Obama's recognition that Al Qaeda and its allies were still in the region and had their bases and sanctuaries in Pakistan's tribal areas. The Afghan president has been protesting for several years that the battle is fought in Afghan villages while the insurgents' headquarters, bases and training camps in Pakistan are left untouched.
 ''The sanctuaries of the terrorists, the nest of the terrorists and the training places of the terrorists are not in Afghanistan; it has a regional dimension,'' he said. 
 A major point of Mr. Obama's new policy toward Pakistan was his declaration that the United States wanted to ensure that the havens established by Al Qaeda and the Taliban in the tribal areas were eliminated. It was from these havens, he said, that Al Qaeda was plotting attacks on the United States. 
 Mr. Zardari did not mention the Taliban or Al Qaeda by name and did not address the power of the militants in the tribal areas or in other areas of Pakistan. Rather, he chose to make a stand about the territorial integrity of Pakistan and reinforced the notion that the government would not tolerate a breach of that sovereignty.
 ''The sovereignty of Pakistan must be protected at all costs,'' he said. ''It will be.''
 The insistence of Pakistan that no American or other foreign troops can operate from its territory is one of the basic challenges facing the Obama administration as it tries to find a way to eliminate the militant threat.
 On Friday, the United States' special envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan, Richard C. Holbrooke, said ''the red line is unambiguous and stated publicly by the Pakistani government: No foreign troops on our soil.'' 
 Because of that prohibition and the unsteady effort by the Pakistani Army against the militants, Washington has been deploying remotely piloted aircraft, known as drones, armed with missiles against Al Qaeda in the tribal areas. The missile attacks are extremely unpopular in Pakistan and have served to strengthen the anti-American sentiment.
 Mr. Zardari, whose popularity has plummeted in recent months, in part because he is linked by many Pakistanis to American policy, did not mention the missile attacks in his speech.
 But President Obama hinted strongly Friday that they would continue. 
 ''Pakistan must demonstrate its commitment to rooting out Al Qaeda and the violent extremists within its borders,'' he said. ''And we will insist that action be taken -- one way or the other -- when we have intelligence about high-level terrorist targets.''
 In his announcement that he would withdraw the executive rule in Punjab that he imposed last month, Mr. Zardari was effectively handing the province back to rule of the Pakistan Muslim League-N. Mr. Zardari is co-chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, a mantle he inherited from his wife, Benazir Bhutto, who was assassinated in December 2007.
 In his speech, he said his party would support the candidate of the Pakistan Muslim League-N as chief minister, a job held by Shahbaz Sharif, the brother of the leader of the league, Nawaz Sharif, before executive rule was imposed. 
 Elsewhere, dozens of suspected militants fired rockets early Saturday at a transport terminal in northwest Pakistan near Peshawar, the police told The Associated Press. The terminal is used to ship supplies to NATO troops. 
 The strike followed by a day a suicide bomber's attack, which killed about 40 people, at a crowded mosque about 12 miles from Peshawar on the main highway to Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers examined damage on Saturday in a transportation depot near Peshawar, Pakistan, after a rocket attack by militants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD SAJJAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HAMAD KARZAI (78%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1206 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Obama Pledges Attention to Flooding

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama, facing his first major natural disaster as president, used his weekly address on Saturday to urge those in flood-stricken areas in the Midwest to ''remain vigilant'' in monitoring the surging rivers there and to assure the nation that his administration was being vigilant as well. 
 ''Even as we face an economic crisis which demands our constant focus, forces of nature can also intervene in ways that create other crises to which we must respond -- and respond urgently,'' Mr. Obama said. ''For the people of North and South Dakota and Minnesota who live along rivers spilling over their banks, this is one such moment.''
 Mr. Obama also lauded the response of thousands of volunteers who braved freezing temperatures to fill sandbags to keep the icy rivers from overflowing and doing even more damage, and linked the effort to his own call for national service. Congress this week passed legislation that would create new cadres of volunteers focused on education, clean energy, health care and veterans, and the president is expected to sign the bill this week.
 ''College students have traveled by the busload from nearby campuses to lend a hand during their spring breaks,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Students from local high schools have asked if they could take time to participate.''
 The president went on, ''In the face of an incredible challenge, the people of these communities have rallied in support of one another, and their service isn't just inspirational -- it's integral to our response. It's also a reminder of what we can achieve when Americans come together to serve their communities.''
 Mr. Obama's remarks reflected the deep scar that another natural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, left on the administration of his predecessor, former President George W. Bush. The Bush administration's bungled response to the disaster left a permanent stain on that presidency; Mr. Obama is no doubt acutely aware that the nation expects to hear from him when nature is putting Americans at risk.
 Mr. Obama has already granted a major disaster declaration request for North Dakota, and ordered federal support into the region, and he has declared a state of emergency in Minnesota. He said Saturday that his administration was ''keeping a close watch on the situation in South Dakota'' -- a suggestion that federal aid is likely to be available there as well.
 On Capitol Hill earlier this week, Mr. Obama met with lawmakers from the affected states. The acting administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Nancy Ward, flew to the region on Friday; the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Coast Guard, National Guard and health experts from the Department of Health and Human Services are all pitching in, Mr. Obama said, adding, ''I will continue to monitor the situation carefully.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); HURRICANES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1207 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Orgasmic

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
''Bipartisanship,'' said Rush Limbaugh to an enthusiastic conservative conclave last month, ''everybody seems to go orgasmic over the concept of bipartisanship.'' Lest any in his enthusiastic audience be shocked, the broadcaster added, ''Don't worry -- I checked with Fox, that word's O.K.''
 The usage that he felt required such reassurance was not bipartisanship, a term the iconoclastic radio commentator treated with scorn, but orgasmic. That word is the adjectival form of the noun orgasm, rooted in the Greek organ, ''to swell, to grow ripe.'' It is probably akin to the Sanskrit urja, ''sap, strength,'' according to Merriam-Webster, which defines the noun as ''an explosive discharge of neuromuscular tensions at the height of sexual arousal that is usually accompanied by the ejaculation of semen in the male and by vaginal contractions in the female.'' 
 Orgasmic, which has 50 times as many Google hits as its modifying rival, orgastic, has in recent years been rapidly gaining in usage because its primary sense has been shifting from the clinical ''climactic'' to the metaphoric ''joyful.'' The Times two weeks ago reported at length on ''orgasmic meditation'' in San Francisco. That frequency is why the self-censors at Fox, mindful of the standards-bearers at the F.C.C., could confidently tell Limbaugh that the word was ''O.K.''
 The online edition of the Oxford English Dictionary, where browsing is orgasmic to word lovers, illuminates by example the history of what it calls the ''weakened'' sense of the adjective: ''very enjoyable or exciting.''
 ''Tempesturous and revolutionary,'' The Washington Post reported in 1890, ''were the orgasmic throes of Germany, England, America.'' John Steinbeck, in his 1947 ''Wayward Bus'' (in which he also used animal spirits), wrote ''Back in the bus he had felt, in anticipation, a bursting, orgasmic delight of freedom.'' British usage runs in tandem: ''Television commercials are often blatantly erotic,'' The Daily Telegraph wrote in 1971, ''so that even the simple act of eating a chocolate bar is turned into an orgasmic experience.''
 Thanks to Limbaugh's bluenose-defying usage (although he confessed to having cleared it beforehand), writers of every political persuasion now have a synonym for ''joyous, blissful, rapturous, ecstatic,'' all of which signify ''over the moon'' but have lately been getting long in the tooth.
 Now to what transition-hungry, segue-seeking columnists call ''a related development'':
 LOVE THINE ENEMIES
 ''The White House Misfires on Limbaugh'' was The Wall Street Journal's headline over a column by the former Bush ''guru'' Karl Rove, who is now enjoying the delights of being on the kicking rather than the receiving team. After the new press secretary, Robert Gibbs, took the opportunity to change the subject of economic distress by zapping a controversy-loving media critic, Rove wrote in defense of the conservative commentator: ''Presidents throughout history have kept lists of political foes. But the Obama White House is the first I am aware of to pick targets based on polls. Even Richard Nixon didn't focus-group his enemies list.'' The Journal's embedded subhead punched up the column's message: ''Aren't there more important things to do than create an enemies list?''
 Enemies list, Watergate historians will recall, grew out of a memo from White House Counsel John Dean on Aug. 16, 1971, ''to use the available federal machinery to screw our political enemies.'' Charles Colson said he responded by forwarding to Dean an ''opponents list.'' In testimony before the Senate Watergate committee, Dean -- an architect of the infamous cover-up -- pleased investigators by coining the much more savage phrase enemies list. Dean's use of the harsh collocation was widely welcomed as describing an example of Nixonian power abuse; four decades later, Rove turned it about to describe a Democratic presidential staff's attitude toward an anti-bipartisan media opponent. 
 A 2007 biography of Franklin Roosevelt by Jean Edward Smith reveals that Postmaster General James Farley had ''a 'sinners roll' of party members who had deserted on crucial roll calls. The constitutents of those on the 'sinners roll' could expect slim pickings.'' That was milder than an opponents list and far less disturbing than an enemies list; the only political list you want to get on is a short list.
 Relatedly and belatedly, let me deal with the multifaceted word screw. (For three decades, The Times has given me leeway to discuss taboo slang terms in this space under scholarly, smirk-free cover; one distressed copy editor who felt I was getting away with murder suggested my telephone extension be changed to 007.) Screw was originally a 15th-century noun for ''a metal pin with a spiral ridge on a tapered shank used as a fastener.'' Because twisting can be one of the movements in copulation, as verb and noun it has for centuries been used as a euphemism for an older, four-letter term. As a slang verb, it has been softened to mean ''do harm to,'' as in the above ''screw our political enemies.'' 
 Concurrently, it gained a sense of eccentricity, as in an 1810 use of ''having a screw loose.'' The baseball pitcher Carl Hubbell adopted Christy Mathewson's arm-twisting reverse curve and called it a screwball. The adjective screwy, meaning ''zany, wacky, dizzy,'' is signified by a finger twirling in screwing motion pointed at the head.
 Although to screw around still suggests promiscuity, the substitution of up for around obliterates any sexual connotation. Since 1942, the verb phrase screw up has meant only ''bungle, botch, mishandle.'' Evidence of that can be seen in the most refreshingly candid admission of error in a familiar slang term by any American president: Barack Obama assumed responsibility for the bungled vetting of Tom Daschle for a cabinet position with a disarming ''I screwed up.'' 
 Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY DAREN NEWMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); CENSORSHIP (73%); WRITERS (66%)

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (56%); GOOGLE INC (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%); ENGLAND (68%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1208 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: English-Speaking Capitalism On Trial

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
-- Sitting in a gilded upper room at 10 Downing Street last week listening to Prime Minister Gordon Brown outline his ambitions for reforming the world economy had something of an out-of-this-world feeling. With Mr. Brown seated beneath a 16th-century oil painting of Queen Elizabeth I, it was tempting to imagine for a moment that Britain was again rising grandly to the challenges of the age, in the way of Good Queen Bess.
 The occasion was a briefing for reporters on the Group of 20 summit meeting to be held Thursday at a conference center in the London docklands, close to the historic City of London, Britain's financial hub. Mr. Brown was intense, and prolific with facts. He was also visibly exhausted, hours before leaving on a five-day, 20,000-mile trip to Europe, the United States and Latin America before the conference.
 The event for which he was preparing is as weighty as any London has hosted in decades. It will be attended by President Obama and the leaders of 21 other nations, including Europe's wealthiest countries and Russia, China, and India. Organizers say that those attending generate 80 percent of the world's wealth, making the gathering a potential powerhouse for global reform. 
 The meeting is too short -- a single day -- to make more than a start on fixing the weaknesses in the international financial system that contributed to the current crisis. But it will help determine the extent to which the economic model shaped largely by Britain and America after World War II -- call it Anglo-American capitalism -- survives as the touchstone for economic growth worldwide.
 For Mr. Brown, it is a make-or-break moment. His government faces an election within 14 months that current polls suggest could bring a crashing end to more than 12 years of Labor rule. While Mr. Obama will be judged in time on how well he can negotiate America's way out of the financial crisis, Mr. Brown carries the added burden of having overseen Britain's economy as chancellor of the exchequer for a decade before becoming prime minister in 2007. From that comes a belief, common in Britain, that he is one of those mainly responsible for the country's current woes. 
 Partly because of the heavy burden of government debt built up during his stewardship, and the uncurbed recklessness of the country's banks, Britain's recession is already the harshest in Western Europe. The Brown government has committed tens of billions to the recapitalization of Britain's banks and a raft of stimulus measures, pushing its budget deficit to levels unknown sinde World War II without any sign yet that the economy's plunge has been slowed. 
 But Mr. Brown has a plan, set out at the briefing. His goal at the G-20 meeting is to make a start on reforming, and eventually saving in more regulated form, the model of the Anglo-American free-market system. It is a plan that Mr. Brown hopes will give Canary Wharf a place in history somewhat like Bretton Woods, the New Hampshire resort where, in July 1944, the United States and Britain led other nations in creating the International Monetary Fund, the first of a group of international organizations that became the pillars of the postwar international system. 
 In many ways, the new order was the legacy of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill, embodying the common beliefs in freedom that had bound the wartime alliance, as they had infused the wider bonds between what Churchill called ''the English-speaking peoples'' since the flowering of liberal thought in the 17th and 18th centuries.
 Just as Roosevelt and Churchill shared that bond, so, now, do Mr. Obama and Mr. Brown. Both men, reacting to events on Wall Street, in the City and in other financial centers, have spoken, with unaccustomed asperity, of the greed and irresponsibility of bankers, hedge-fund managers and others who, the two men have as much as said, have betrayed the system and come close to wrecking it.
 Now, the conviction that the system must be rebuilt to curb future excesses forms a starting point for the reforms that will come under discussion in London. Like Mr. Brown's, President Obama's message to his own compatriots has focused on ways of revitalizing the system, often to the exasperation of those among their supporters who would favor more radical measures.
 Even as both men have embarked on enormous increases in public-sector spending, they have maintained that solutions to the crisis lie in reawakening the markets and recapitalizing the banks, rather than having the government take them over, and in placing financial institutions under closer supervision rather than tearing at the system's foundations. And both, when they respond to public anger at the private sector, have seemed more geared to managing that anger than stoking it.
 Still, Mr. Brown may not have strengthened Washington's confidence in him as a partner with his habit of tailoring his remarks to popular predilections on opposite sides of the Atlantic. In New York and Washington, he has been lionized for his pathfinding decision last fall to recapitalize Britain's banks, a step later followed by the Bush and Obama administrations. He has responded by emphasizing Britain's close ties to America, and the two countries' responsibility to lead in reforming the system they gave the world. He frequently mentions his summer vacations on Cape Cod. 
 But at home, and on his visits to Continental Europe, the prime minister seems, as often as not, to cast America as the villain. In response to a wave of opposition demands that he apologize for his failings as chancellor of the exchequer, he has insisted that Britain's financial woes, and the world's, came ''from America,'' as though Britain was as much a victim as it was a perpetrator of its ills through the venality of its own financial institutions and its failures of regulatory oversight.
 Speaking to the European Parliament last week before flying to New York, he flattered legislators by saying that ''we in Europe are uniquely placed to lead the world'' in meeting the challenges of remaking the world's economic system, not only because the union's 500 million people constitute ''the greatest and biggest single market in the world,'' but because of European moral sensibilities. Without mentioning the United States, he implied that the moral contagion that has afflicted market economies ran counter to a common European belief that ''liberty, economic progress and social justice advance together, or not at all.''
 As chancellor, Mr. Brown celebrated the ''light touch'' regulation of the City of London under which American banks and investment houses flocked to build up their London operations. He appeared, to his critics on Labor's left, to have accepted a Faustian deal under which the unbridled excesses of the City were tolerated because they generated windfall tax revenues that allowed Labor to splurge on public sector spending. 
 But in Strasbourg, France, the prime minister seemed to fall back on his roots as the son of a Scottish preacher, and as a student politician of the radical left, focusing on the demons that detractors believe are inherent in the capitalist system. Europe, he told the legislators, had learned the truth that ''riches are of value only when they enrich not just some communities, but all.'' He added: ''As we have discovered to our cost, the problem of unbridled free markets in an unsupervised marketplace is that they can reduce all relationships to transactions, all motivations to self-interest, all sense of value to consumer choice and all sense of worth to a price tag.''
 If the implication was that Gordon Gekko-style greedwas an American contagion, Mr. Brown is far from alone in Europe. Among some of those who worked through the boom years in the City of London, the moment when matters began to get out of hand under the international financial architecture that began to take shape at Bretton Woods can be dated to the collapse of the Soviet Union. One result, these people now say, was an American triumphalism that translated, in the financial world, to the kind of free-for-all Mr. Brown spoke about in Strasbourg. 
 Not that London needed encouragement. The Big Bang that liberated financial institutions in the City had come in 1986, sweeping away the cobwebbed traditions of centuries and putting London, at last, in a position to compete with, and in some cases outmatch, Wall Street's most aggressive practices. The genteel if not downright sleepy practices of post-imperial Britain gave way to what one British banker from that era described as the end of Anglo-American capitalism, and the beginning of a more virulent ''American-Anglo'' form.
 ''We were star struck -- the American way had become more glamorous,'' said George G. Blakey, a stockbroker who has written a book on the history of the London Stock Exchange. ''This was the beginning of globalization, and this new American culture swept away everything I had been accustomed to.''
 Now, a wave of voices around the world would like a new Big Bang to sweep away the Bretton Woods template and the era of Anglo-American dominance it ushered in. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia has suggested as much, to nobody's great surprise, and even France's otherwise pro-American president, Nicolas Sarkozy, has said the ''Anglo-Saxon'' presumption of dominance should be abandoned. 
 Against this background, what the British and American leaders will be attempting at the G-20 conference, along with their partners from around the world, will be to begin building a new global financial system that curbs the rampant and often conscienceless free-marketeering of the past 20 years with a new sense of accountability and restraint, but without extinguishing the spirit of enterprise that arrived in America with the Pilgrims who landed at Plymouth Rock.
 It is a task some have likened to rebuilding an aircraft in midflight, and on its success may depend the future well-being of much of the world's population of 6.5 billion, not to mention the fragile political prospects of Mr. Brown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTNERS: Roosevelt and Churchill cast the postwar mold
Bill Clinton and Tony Blair extended its triumph in the late 1990's
now Barack Obama and Gordon Brown defend it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES
CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS
 RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); BILL CLINTON (70%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1209 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Blue Eyed Greed?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 As international lunacy goes, it was hard to beat the pope saying that condoms spread AIDS.
 But Brazil's president, known simply as Lula, gave it his best shot.
 At a press conference Thursday in Brasilia with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain -- who has a talent for getting himself into dicey spots -- Lula started off coughing from some cheese bread he'd wolfed down. Then he suddenly turned accusatory. 
 ''This crisis was caused by the irrational behavior of white people with blue eyes, who before the crisis appeared to know everything and now demonstrate that they know nothing,'' charged the brown-eyed, bearded socialist president. 
 As the brown-eyed Brown grew a whiter shade of pale, Lula hammered the obvious point that the poor of the world were suffering in the global crash because of the misdeeds of the rich.
 ''I do not know any black or indigenous bankers,'' said Lula.
 He also told CNN he would press this theme at the G-20 meeting in London this week. He says his past as a poor, hungry, unemployed lathe operator gives him special insight.
 ''I lived in houses that were flooded by water,'' he said, adding, ''Sometimes, I had to fight over space with rats and cockroaches, and waste would come in when it flooded.''
 The ''Lula lulu'' by the ''Brazil nut,'' as The New York Post dubbed it, became big news just as President Obama met at the White House with Vikram Pandit and a cadre of white-bread bankers who have taken the bailout -- some of whom, like Jamie Dimon, have distinctly blue eyes.
 And it is true, of course, that the upper-crust, underwhelming Anglo-Saxon leaders who allowed America's financial markets to morph into louche casinos, George W. Bush and Dick Cheney, were very, very white men with blue eyes.
 As the Who sang: ''No one knows what it's like to be the bad man, to be the sad man behind blue eyes. No one knows what it's like to be hated, to be fated to telling only lies.''
 Every time Cheney looks into the camera with those ice-blue eyes and says President Obama is making us less safe, it sounds as if he's secretly hoping we do get attacked just to prove his point that Obama is weak, even if he has to go up in smoke, too.
 (When I double-checked the color of Cheney's eyes, his daughter Liz Cheney jokingly e-mailed back, ''Sorry, but that information is classified.'')
 Before President Obama, whose brown eyes are opaque when you look into them, presidents have been more known for blue eyes. The ones with brown eyes, Richard Nixon and L.B.J., came a cropper.
 Throughout history, whether it's images of Jesus that don't look Middle Eastern or Barbies who don't look ethnic, blue eyes and white skin have often been painted as the ideal. 
 The cerulean-eyed Paul Newman once wryly predicted his epitaph: ''Here lies Paul Newman, who died a failure because his eyes turned brown.''
 Surveys show that people with blue eyes are considered more intelligent, attractive and sociable.
 A 2007 University of Louisville study concluded that people with blue eyes were better planners and strategic thinkers -- superior at things like golf, cross-country running and preparing for exams -- while people with brown eyes had better reflexes, making them good at hockey and football.
 Lula's rant underscored an ancient rivalry. 
 When I was little, growing up in a house that prominently displayed a blue-eyed Jesus and a blue-eyed J.F.K., I felt my brown eyes were far less attractive than my brothers' blue ones.
 I obsessed on it so much, cutting out a picture of a beautiful brown-eyed model and keeping it in my scrapbook, that my mother finally reassured me:
 ''You look at blue eyes. You look into brown eyes.''
 Later, of course, there would be the thrill of Van Morrison serenading a ''Brown-Eyed Girl.'' 
 Before Barack Obama, when I interviewed the brown-eyed sons of immigrants who were thinking of running for president, Mario Cuomo and Colin Powell, they seemed torn about taking the big plunge, given how far they had come in relation to their dads.
 I asked Governor Cuomo if he was leaving the field to ''the privileged blue-eyed WASPs'' like Bush senior and Dan Quayle who felt entitled and never worried about their worthiness. 
 Barack Obama and his family have already had a profound effect on the culture in terms of what is beautiful and marketable. Black faces are popping up in all kinds of ads now -- wearing straw boaters and other prepster outfits in Ralph Lauren ads.
 With Michelle urging students to aim for A's and the president promising to make school ''cool,'' brown eyes may finally -- and rightfully -- overtake blue as the windows of winners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MEN (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); GORDON BROWN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1210 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: White House Announces International Meetings to Address Energy and Climate Issues

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The Obama administration announced Saturday that it had organized a series of meetings among representatives of 16 countries and the European Union to discuss energy and climate issues. 
 The meetings, to be held in Washington in April and in La Maddalena, Italy, in July, will seek to resolve longstanding issues that have blocked the development of an international climate treaty. 
 The participants, who include Chinese and Indian representatives, will also try to create ''concrete initiatives and joint ventures that increase the supply of clean energy while cutting greenhouse gas emissions,'' according to a White House news release. The talks, called the Major Economies Meetings on Energy Security and Climate Change, echo in name and goals an initiative begun in the last two years of the Bush administration. 
 Those meetings gathered developing and developed countries that were the largest emitters of the heat-trapping gases linked to global warming. The meetings were cast by the Bush administration as intended to set long-term goals for reducing emissions and to seek actions that could be taken in sectors of economies like power generation and manufacturing. 
 The talks organized by the Bush administration were criticized by some small developing countries, European officials and environmental groups as an effort to circumvent global climate negotiations led by the United Nations, although President George W. Bush said at the time that the meetings were intended to support the global talks.
 The United States refused to ratify an earlier international agreement, the Kyoto Protocol, objecting that developing countries like China and India were not bound by its restrictions on emissions of heat-trapping gases. 
 Negotiations for a new global treaty are under way and will culminate in talks in Copenhagen in December.
 The president of the National Wildlife Federation, Larry Schweiger, said Saturday that any such meetings were useful as ways to seek common ground among the world's biggest emitters of heat-trapping gases. 
 At the time, some environmentalists credited the Bush administration's effort for initiating direct exchanges about climate with China and India. 
 But Mr. Schweiger said he expected the Obama administration's initiative to be more productive. 
 ''It's a matter of intent,'' he said. ''I think the Bush administration never intended to come up with a big solution. I think this administration is truly committed to finding a solution for everybody.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (93%); PRESS RELEASES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); WILDLIFE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1211 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: They Dug It

BYLINE: By DAVID OSHINSKY. 
David Oshinsky holds the Jack S. Blanton chair in history at the University of Texas and is a distinguished scholar in residence at New York University.

 BODY:
THE CANAL BUILDERS
 Making America's Empire at the Panama Canal
 By Julie Greene
 Illustrated. 475 pp. The Penguin Press. $30
 While running for the Republican presidential nomination in 1976, Ronald Reagan stumbled onto an issue that energized his upstart campaign. In stop after stop, he recalled, people expressed ''utter disbelief'' that an American president -- the Republican incumbent, Gerald R. Ford -- would even think of relinquishing control over the Panama Canal. Knowing next to nothing about its history, but quite a lot about the politics of flag-waving, Reagan quickly turned the canal into a symbol of American resolve in an increasingly dangerous and disrespectful world. ''We bought it, we paid for it, it's ours,'' he told the cheering crowds, and ''we are going to keep it.'' 
 What was so special about the Canal Zone? Why this allegiance to a distant spot of land, 10 miles wide and 50 miles long, that many Americans would have trouble finding on a map? The answer lies in the mythology that has surrounded the canal since its opening, in 1914. America had not only pulled off one of the greatest engineering feats in history, it had succeeded where France had failed. It was our technology, our science and our leadership that had carried the day. Even better, we had shared the blessings of this modern marvel with the entire world, once again showing our selfless intent. What clearer example could there be of America's distinctiveness, its ability to shape the future, to get big things done? 
 Many historians of the canal accept this line of thinking. Their works have centered on the genius of American planners like George Washington Goethals, seeing the decisions they made, and the obstacles they overcame, as signs of a superior national character. Whether eradicating deadly diseases like yellow fever, constructing the massive locks and gates that raised and lowered the ships, or disposing of millions of tons of rubble produced by the dynamite and steam shovels that leveled entire mountains, these planners faced down every problem thrown their way, finishing the project ahead of schedule and well under budget. ''I think often about why the French failed at Panama and why we succeeded,'' the historian David McCullough said a few years ago. ''One of the reasons . . . is that we were gifted, we were attuned to adaptation, to doing what works, whereas they were trained to do everything in a certain way. We have a gift for improvisation.'' 
 ''The Canal Builders,'' by Julie Greene, a history professor at the University of Maryland, takes a very different approach. Less interested in the now fabled engineering feats of the project, she instead emphasizes the human dimension -- the daily lives of the thousands of workers and family members who journeyed to the Canal Zone from all parts of the world seeking adventure, better wages or simply a fresh start. Who were they? What jobs did they do? Where did they live? What did they eat? How were they governed? Her answers provide a fascinating look at those who actually built the canal between 1904 and 1914, a largely forgotten population of 60,000 brought to life in a remarkably creative way.
 Workers from the Caribbean, especially Jamaica and Barbados, constituted the bulk of the unskilled labor force, doing the dirty, dangerous jobs that whites wouldn't do. Recruited by company agents, paid far more than they could ever earn at home, these men were used up and replaced like the junked parts of a machine. In one of the many personal histories employed by Greene, a West Indian named Constantine Parkinson wrote that ''people get kill and injure almost every day and all the bosses want is to get the canal build.'' Indeed, so many of them died in landslides and explosions that a special envelope was used to alert their families back home. A woman from Barbados remembered the sight of a local mother with a black-bordered envelope in her hand: ''That meant her son had died in Panama.'' 
 While thousands of other workers came from Europe and Asia, the best jobs almost always went to white Americans. Because word had spread in the United States about the perils of Panama, hefty incentives were required. A skilled American worker in the Canal Zone -- an accountant, a steam-shovel operator or a locomotive engineer -- could make as much as $200 a month, a staggering sum in that era, paid in American gold currency. (Most nonwhites and non-Americans were ''silver workers,'' paid in Panamanian silver.) White Americans received six weeks of vacation each year. Wives received free passage to Panama, and married couples were given prime living quarters. American officials believed that women and children would help stabilize the region by cutting down on drinking, prostitution and crime. 
 Life beyond the Canal Zone teemed with immigrant peddlers and lonely workers flush with cash. A tourist in Panama City described a street scene in which a cart, ''loaded with English tea biscuit, drawn by an old American Army mule, driven by a Hindu wearing a turban, drove up in front of a Chinese shop.'' Across the street was ''an Italian lace shop run by a Jew.'' But white Americans lived a world apart from this clamor. The Canal Zone gave them all the comforts of home, resembling a modern-day gated community, with schools, churches, servants, ball fields, libraries and Y.M.C.A.'s. Neighborhoods were segregated by race and class. Labor unions were frowned upon. A well-organized police force kept order. As Speaker of the House Joseph Cannon, who led a touring group of congressmen, put it, ''We're just as comfortable here as in Illinois.'' 
 At its best, ''The Canal Builders'' presents a telling portrait of exploitation, privilege and insularity, backed by a mountain of fresh research. But it veers toward predictability in its epilogue, which sees the canal project as both a launching pad for America's global dominance (a well-worn historical theme) and a precursor of the suffering that plagues our current world economy. ''Strategies devised during the canal construction project have reached across the decades to the current day,'' Greene concludes. ''We can see them in the increasing importance of transnational migrant labor and the rapid flow of capital around the globe, in the persistent notion that citizens deserve certain rights that are denied to aliens, and in the sentimental and idealistic ways Americans sometimes approach the exercise of U.S. power around the world.'' 
 But Greene never considers the possibility that the canal project was merely a reflection of powerful forces already in place, and not some grand design for the future. As a result, she doesn't question whether conditions for West Indian canal workers were any more dangerous than those for immigrant laborers in, say, a Pittsburgh steel mill or a Chicago meatpacking plant. Or whether these West Indians were afforded fewer rights than immigrant workers in Europe, Asia or other parts of the Americas. The differences, I suspect, were extremely small. The canal project represented the best -- and worst -- of the spreading industrial revolution, circa 1910, with a strong dose of American bravado mixed in. 
 The real strength of ''The Canal Builders'' lies not in floating big theories, but in recreating forgotten lives. It is history from the bottom up, andit speaks for 60,000 anonymous people who helped build what President Theodore Roosevelt grandiosely called ''the greatest work of the kind ever attempted.'' That should be more than enough. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laborers about to be transported to a work site. (PHOTOGRAPH: NATIONAL ARCHIVES
 FROM ''THE CANAL BUILDERS'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (65%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (94%)

TITLE: Canal Builders, The (Book); Canal Builders, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1212 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: One State's Lesson On Health Care

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
In any effort to restructure American health care, two interconnected goals inevitably compete for primacy. One is providing health coverage to the uninsured, counted in 2007 at 46 million, or 15 percent of the population, and almost certainly more now. The other is slowing the relentless and unsustainable growth of health costs, which threaten virtually every family, in imagination if not in fact. 
 As President Obama takes on the health care behemoth in concert with Congress, his positioning suggests he has put cost first. His campaign plan did not mandate health coverage for every American, only for children. His comments since taking office, informed by polls showing broader concern about cost than access, have focused on health care's bankrupting potential for families, the economy and the government. Just last week, in a news conference, he argued that reducing health spending was central to prospects for economic growth. 
 Mr. Obama's strategy is to sell the expansion of access -- largely through public insurance programs -- as inseparable from serious efforts at innovation and restraint. This month, he pointedly opened a White House forum on health care by asserting that exploding costs pose ''one of the greatest threats not just to the well-being of our families and the prosperity of our businesses, but to the very foundation of our economy.'' 
 But there is only one real-life model in this country for the kind of sweeping change being considered in Washington, and that is in Massachusetts, where a landmark law signed in April 2006 has achieved near-universal coverage. And in that state, leaders decided from the outset to decouple access and cost, and to deal first with covering the uninsured. 
 Predictably, rising costs now threaten the viability of the Massachusetts plan, leaving Gov. Deval Patrick and his Legislature to play catch-up. Mr. Patrick has warned he might try to regulate insurance premiums if insurers and hospitals do not demonstrate self-discipline. And lawmakers are awaiting recommendations from a state commission charged with reinventing the payment system so doctors and hospitals are rewarded for preventive care rather than the quantity of treatment they provide.
 Health policy experts differ about how much one state can do. However, they agree that misplaced financial incentives are responsible for tremendous waste in American medicine, contributing to premiums that have grown this decade at four times the rate of inflation.
 Yet, even now, the lawmakers and strategists behind the Massachusetts plan strongly defend their incremental approach. Only by deferring the big decisions on cost containment, they said in recent interviews, was it possible to build a consensus among doctors, hospitals, insurers, consumers, employers and workers for the requirement that all residents have health insurance. 
 The coalition held last year, when Mr. Patrick and the Legislature spread the pain in filling a deficit in the state's new subsidized insurance program. It will now be more seriously tested by attempts to change the payment system, but the gamble is that stakeholders are now so invested they cannot back away. 
 The times and the politics are different in Washington, where the recession has convinced both parties that cost containment cannot wait. But by addressing costs and access simultaneously, the White House and Congress risk alienating key interest groups from the get-go. 
 ''When you start talking about cost, you create winners and losers and that leads to a political challenge,'' warned Andrew Dreyfus, executive vice president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts.
 Universal coverage should itself bring down costs over the long run by preventing chronic disease and reducing the amount of non-urgent care provided in emergency rooms. But it requires increased government spending in the form of subsidies for those who cannot now afford coverage.
 Under Mr. Obama's framework, half the cost of providing those subsidies would be raised through tax increases on top earners. The rest would come from savings wrung from the health system. That level of savings may prove elusive, as the estimates attached to many of the proposals to cut costs, like expanding electronic record-keeping and improving management of chronic conditions, are considered highly speculative.
 The designers of the Massachusetts plan stress the importance of distributing the burden evenly and deferring at least some of the discomfort until the benefits of expanded coverage can be seen.
 Jon M. Kingsdale, director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, which oversees the new subsidized coverage program, suggested that Congress pass legislation to expand access while delegating cost-control decisions to a commission. Like the military base-closing commissions of the past, it would make recommendations that would be subject to an up or down vote.
 ''The concept,'' Mr. Kingsdale said, ''is to sequence reform in some way to do the really hard thing, which is expanding access, before we do the nearly impossible thing, which is containing costs. We don't want to end up holding 50 million uninsured hostage to cost containment.''
 John R. Sasso, a longtime Massachusetts political strategist who represented the state's largest insurer and largest hospital network in 2006, said that moderation and gradualism had been critical.
 ''My experience has been that if you start out trying to design the perfect plan you will fail,'' he said. ''The goal has got to be to deal with all the levers that affect cost and access and quality but to not overreach in any of those areas. Everybody had a certain responsibility but not so onerous, not so tough on the front end, that it would cause people to lose faith in the prospect of covering everybody.''
 Among the initiatives already generating heat in Congress is Mr. Obama's proposal to create a new government insurance plan that would provide subsidized coverage to the working poor. Insurance companies say they fear that they would not be able to compete, and that consumers would eventually migrate to public plans, creating a backdoor government insurance system. 
 Massachusetts did not create such a plan, choosing instead to offer subsidies that make commercial policies more affordable. Diane Archer, co-director of the Health Care for All Project at the left-leaning Institute for America's Future, questioned whether that put enough competitive pressure on insurers. ''If we want to bend that cost curve down, it's through the public option that we're going to do it,'' she said.
 But those on the right cite the success of Mr. Kingsdale's Commonwealth Connector in negotiating commercial insurance contracts that will leave premiums flat in the coming fiscal year (following a nearly 10 percent increase in costs this year).
 ''The Connector has worked without any need for a public plan option and the dangers it brings,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who served as a top domestic policy adviser to Senator John McCain's Republican presidential campaign. 
 Although health reformers in Massachusetts acknowledge that the fiscal and political landscape in Washington is profoundly different, there is broad agreement among them about the importance of mandating coverage for adults. That provision is supported on the federal level by Democratic leaders like Senators Max Baucus of Montana, chairman of the Finance Committee, and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who leads the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
 The insurance lobby has said that if Washington required coverage for all, it would end the practice of denying coverage to those with pre-existing healthconditions. To sweeten the pot, major insurers announced last week they also would be willing to not base premiums on a patient's health status. 
 If history is a guide, the success of health reform may depend on whether the White House and Congress can give interest groups enough to keep them on board. By tackling cost at the same time as access, they have made their political challenge more difficult. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JENNIFER DANIEL) (pg.WK1)
 CHART: WHAT MASSACHUSETTS HAS DONE, WHAT OBAMA HAS PROPOSED (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%); DEVAL PATRICK (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1213 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: For Top Colleges, Economy Has Not Reduced Interest (or Made Getting in Easier)

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG and TAMAR LEWIN


HIGHLIGHT: The nation's most selective colleges and universities will be admitting a smaller percentage of applicants than in previous years. 

 BODY:
The recession appears to have had little impact on the number of applications received by many of the nation's most competitive colleges, or on an applicant's overall chances of being admitted to them.
Representatives of Harvard, Stanford, Dartmouth, Yale, and Brown, among other highly selective institutions, said in telephone and e-mail exchanges in recent days that applications for the Class of 2013 had jumped sharply when compared to the previous year's class. As a result, the percentage of applicants who will receive good news from the eight colleges of the Ivy League (and a few other top schools that send out decision letters this week) is expected to hover at - or near - record lows. 
Bill Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions and financial aid at Harvard since 1986, said that the 29,112 applications Harvard received this year represented an all-time high, and a 6-percentage point increase from last year. He said the percentage of applicants admitted would be 7 percent, down from 8 percent a year ago. Dartmouth said that the 18,130 applications it received was the most in its history, too, and that the 12 percent admitted would be its lowest. 
Stanford said that the 30,350 applications it received represented a 20 percent increase, and that while it estimated a 7.5-percent admission rate, which would be its lowest, it declined to specify a final figure until later in the week.
Yale, Brown, Columbia, Cornelland Princetondeclined to release their final admission rates in advance of sending out most of their decision letters via e-mail at 5 p.m. eastern time on Tuesday. But Brown said it had received 21 percent more applications, overall, compared to a year ago; Yale was up 14 percent; Columbia was up 13 percent and Cornell was up 3 percent. Princeton said that, as of January, it had tallied a 2 percent increase in applications, but anticipated the pool had gotten even larger since then. At the University of Pennsylvania, the number of applications increased by 4 -- to 22,939, from 22,935.
However, applications to highly selective colleges were not up universally. Many of the best-known liberal arts colleges had fewer applications this year.
Williams College in western Massachusetts said that applications were down 20 percent this year, with 6,024 having applied to the Class of 2013, as compared to 7,552 a year ago. Williams's acceptance rate, in turn, is expected to be about 20 percent, which is higher than in recent years. The reason for the change was not immediately clear, though applicants outside New England who are concerned about their finances would have to take into account that Williams is not close to a major city or airport - and thus could be expensive to get in and out of.
Similarly, Middlebury College in Vermont, which is also relatively remote, had a nearly 12 percent drop in applications. Amherst, another Massachusetts college and Williams rival, said that applications were down about 1 percent - and that its admissions rate would increase slightly, to 16 percent, in part because Amherst is aiming to increase its first-year class by about 25 students. (Wesleyan University in Connecticut, which sometimes competes for students with Amherst and Williams, has drawn substantially more interest this year: its applicant pool was 22 percent larger than last year's; its admission rate fell to 22 percent, from 27 percent.)
Amherst had a nearly 10-percent increase in early-decision applications. It enrolls about 30 percent of its first-year class through that program, and - like most schools surveyed - it said it had not lost a single one to due any change in family finances since the fall, when such applications are made.
"Given the economy, it's very surprising to me,'' said Tom Parker, dean of admission and financial aid, "and when I told the board, they found it hard to believe, too.''
In a sign of how hard it is to draw broad conclusions about an admissions season that has been set against a stark economic backdrop, just over half of the nearly 350 institutions that accept the Common Application, a shared online admission form, received more applications this year than last; just under half received fewer. Bryn Mawrand Wellesleywere among those that were up slightly, while overall applications to Grinnelland Pomonawere down (as compared to their early applications, which were up quite a bit.)
Among the best-known public universities, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and the University of Virginia in Charlottesville all recorded gains in applications - a sign, surely, of some applicants' desire to stay closer to home, and pay less than they might at an elite private college. Applications to the University of Wisconsin in Madison fell nearly 3 percent.
Of course, applying to college is one thing; being able to afford to go is another.
Harvard, which like many colleges raised its financial aid budget this year, said that between this week and May 1, when applicants' decisions are due, it was bracing for many to make impassioned appeals of their financial aid offers, whether by phone or e-mail or in person. In response, Mr. Fitzsimmons said that the Harvard financial aid office would be open every day in April, with expanded hours, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
"We're going to listen,'' he said. "We don't have a policy of matching other schools' awards. But we're going to listen to what a family thinks its unusual circumstances might be. We learn a lot about our families in April.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); Amherst College; Dartmouth College; Grinnell College; Harvard University; Middlebury College; Stanford University; Williams College; Pomona College; Admissions News; Applying to College; For Counselors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%) Amherst College; Dartmouth College; Grinnell College; Harvard University; Middlebury College; Stanford University; Williams College

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012



1214 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Where Jobs Ride On a Luxury On Wheels

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
COBURG, Ore.
The winding steps of granite lead to a dark hardwood floor as polished as the mirrored ceiling above. Together they reflect only luxury, from the dining area's subtle elegance to the bedroom's costly coziness. Granite kitchen counter. Granite shower stall. Fine upholstery that isn't granite, but goes with granite.
And everywhere you look, high-definition televisions: descending from the ceiling, sliding out from behind the cabinetry, appearing just outside the front door in case you want to take in a nature documentary amid nature. They all respond to a remote-control device so sophisticated that you may need security clearance just to watch that documentary.
For $2 million it's yours, take it, drive it off the lot: a 45-foot-long recreational vehicle meant for those who can afford to sail along the roads of America in a yacht on wheels. The Marathon Coach company of Coburg, Ore., awaits your call. 
The idea of paying $2 million for a rolling domicile with less than 500 square feet of living space -- carpeted, say, in ''Eureka,'' with accents of ''Madrid'' -- may seem excessive in this recession, even a bit oblivious. But here in Lane County, a good part of the economy depends on that strain of American wanderlust requiring a toilet, bed and kitchenette just a few rumbling feet behind the wheel.
And that is the problem. In these hard times, fewer household discussions are beginning with ''Honey, let's buy a motor home.''
Monaco Coach, across the street from Marathon, recently filed for bankruptcy protection and laid off about 2,000 workers, including 1,400 in Oregon, although another company has signed a letter of intent to buy its core assets. And Country Coach, in nearby Junction City, has been closed since late November and is also in bankruptcy proceedings, but Bob Lee, its founder, says there is hope that a reorganization will allow it to reopen.
In normal times, if there is such a thing, R.V. buyers will usually browse for years before arranging for a long-term loan to make the largest purchase of their lives, short of their homes. But you need a home; you don't need a home on wheels.
This reality is central to why R.V. sales are down and layoffs are up. According to the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association, manufacturers shipped out just 7,300 motor homes and trailers in January, down 71 percent from a year ago. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate in Lane County nearly doubled, to 11.3 percent.
Kevin Broom, an industry spokesman, says two key factors have caused the R.V. industry to sputter: ''The credit markets froze. And consumer confidence plunged.''
Pure serendipity explains how Lane County became dependent on, of all things, recreational vehicles. Forty years ago, Mr. Lee and two other entrepreneurs drove up from California, searching for a large building in which to build campers. ''We didn't care what it was, as long as it was cheap,'' he
recalls.
They got off the freeway in Lane County and found an old lumber building in Junction City, made available by a downturn in timber. That building came to seed an industry: companies named Monaco and Safari, Marathon and Country Coach -- most of them connected in some way to Mr. Lee -- would go on to employ thousands.
''That industry replaced all those timber jobs,'' Mr. Lee says. ''Now it's time for some other industry to come in and do something -- or straighten this one out.''
But Marathon, a much smaller operation than either Monaco or Country Coach, has managed to remain open. Its product is so expensive, its clientele so removed from the teeming middle-class masses, that even the sale of a relatively few motor homes -- to another country-western star, another race-car driver, another retired captain of industry -- can carry the business.
''It doesn't take that many coach sales to have some success in the company,'' says Steve Schoellhorn, Marathon's president. A high-end Marathon motor home, after all, costs about eight times the price of a typical house in Lane County.
In his short-sleeved polo shirt, Mr. Schoellhorn, 40, exudes a hard-sell opposite, a kind of que sera, sera approach that may reflect how he first got into the R.V. business. He was just starting a career as a Princeton-educated commodities trader in Chicago when his father called with an offbeat proposition.
Robert Schoellhorn, once the aggressive chairman of Abbott Laboratories, a Fortune 500 company based in Chicago, had retired and taken to the road in a recreational vehicle whose handling and amenities fell short of his wishes. ''He was used to nicely built things,'' his son says.
This led the elder Schoellhorn to buy a Marathon motor home, which led him to buy a piece of the company, which led him to buy the entire company. By 1994 the Schoellhorn family had built a sleek factory and headquarters between Interstate 5 and Coburg Industrial Way.
Look east toward the Interstate today and you might see Coburg police officers stopping cars in one of the more notorious speed traps in the Northwest. Look west across Coburg Industrial Way and you see the all-but-shuttered Monaco Coach factory; orange traffic cones blocking access to the sprawling, empty parking lot; and, behind some fencing, rows and rows of white motor homes, looking like a fleet of ice cream trucks waiting for winter's end.
But inside the Marathon building, workers are transforming bus shells, made by the Prevost Car company of Quebec, into customized motor homes for people who might also be able to afford a $250,000 spot in an exclusive, resort-like R.V. park. The employees include painters and cabinet makers, electrical engineers and interior designers -- even a woman who specializes in creating a distinctive color scheme for your 45-foot-long ride.
These are jobs, precious jobs, all contingent on the discretionary spending of wealthy people -- who, it turns out, are also feeling squeezed in this economy. Mr. Schoellhorn acknowledges that sales have dropped; he expects to produce 30-some luxury motor homes this year, down from nearly 50 in 2008. As a result, Marathon has about 80 employees working; last year at this time it had 200.
''This is definitely the worst that business has been,'' he says. ''People are holding back more than I've ever seen, waiting it out, waiting for it to get better.''
After all, he adds, ''You can always go another day without buying a new motor home.''
There it is again: a truth upon which so many jobs depend.
But if you are in the market for a $2 million motor home, the employees at Marathon Coach are glad for the work. Your new coach will have a geo-positioning device and even side cameras to help you maneuver out of the parking lot.
Then it should be a clear shot to the Interstate. Without those hundreds of people driving in and out of the Monaco Coach plant across the street, there's hardly any traffic these days on Coburg Industrial Way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TROUBLES: Steve Schoellhorn, president of Marathon Coach, a maker of luxury motor homes, below, that has halved its work force in the last year. Monaco Coach, left, across the street from Marathon in Lane County, Ore., recently filed for bankruptcy protection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); MOTOR HOME MFG (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); SALES FIGURES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (56%)

COMPANY: COACH INC (85%)

TICKER: COH (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3151 LEATHER GLOVES & MITTENS (85%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1215 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Island Surrounded By Tension In the Gulf

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and ROBERT F. WORTH; Michael Slackman reported from Manama, and Robert F. Worth from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo and Manama.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- This small desert kingdom in the Persian Gulf has become a flashpoint in the escalating conflict for regional dominance between Iran and Arab leaders aligned with the United States, after an Iranian official said Bahrain was historically a province of Iran.
The conflict exploded into a diplomatic confrontation last month after being seized on by Arab leaders who were already angry and felt threatened by Iran's involvement and rising influence in Lebanon, Iraq and Gaza. It also came at a time when some Arab leaders were still furious over Iran's criticism of their response to the Israeli offensive in Gaza.
The president of Egypt and the king of Jordan flew to Bahrain. Morocco took the extreme step of severing diplomatic ties with Iran. The foreign minister of Saudi Arabia called on Arab states to ''deal with the Iranian challenge.'' State-controlled news media across the region leveled sharp criticism against Tehran.
And Qatar, the host of the Arab League summit meeting that begins Monday, had initially said it would invite Iran, but then backed off because it was afraid too many countries would stay away. As it is, Egypt sent a very low-level delegation. 
The anxiety of Arab leaders about Iran's strengthening role has been heightened by President Obama's overtures to Tehran. While Arab states oppose any military action by the United States against Iran, there is deep concern that Washington will cut a grand deal that will ultimately compromise their interests, especially here among Persian Gulf nations.
''The U.S. thinks a settlement with Iran is a key for the whole region,'' said Mustafa Alani, a security analyst at the Gulf Research Center in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates. ''This worries us. This mentality could lead to major concessions that could undermine our security.''
The reaction to the Bahrain comments by the Iranian official, Ali Akbar Nateq-Nouri, was so severe that Iran took the unusual step of publicly apologizing, and sent its foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, to visit several Arab capitals. Mr. Mottaki insisted that Iran respected Bahrain's sovereignty, while Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said the comments were taken out of context and ''exploited'' by foreign powers eager to drive a wedge between Iran and its neighbors.
Though Iran's diplomatic outreach has succeeded in calming tempers, officials, political analysts and diplomats here and around the region said that the reaction exposed simmering, unresolved tensions. They said that Arab leaders were frustrated by their own regional impotence, especially by Egypt's failure to rein in Hamas, which controls Gaza, and alarmed by Iran's rising military and political influence in places like Iraq and Lebanon.
''It will never be over,'' said Adel al-Maawdah, chairman of the foreign affairs and national security committee in Bahrain's Parliament, of the conflict with Iran. ''But we have to go on. We don't want war. We don't want political tension between us and Iran.''
The conflict also underscored the tension between those officials in Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia who are aligned with Washington and support the peace process with Israel, and those in Qatar and Syria who have developed close political and economic ties with Iran. There have been some efforts at reconciliation, and some progress. But there remain great differences as well, especially between Qatar and Egypt, over a variety of issues including relations with Iran. A predominantly Persian nation, Iran is seen by some leaders in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and other Western-aligned countries as the greatest threat to their regional influence.
Feeling cornered, Arab countries hostile to Iran welcomed the remarks about Bahrain. One Jordanian analyst, a former adviser to King Hussein, said Arab leaders saw it as ''God sent'' because it gave them an issue to club Iran, Syria and Qatar with.
''The reaction was exaggerated, and it was intentionally exaggerated,'' said the analyst, Adnan Abu-Odeh, adding that the goal was to show ''that Iran is expansionist.''
From there, a ripple of hostility spread, causing other unresolved issues to flare up.
The United Arab Emirates has a longstanding dispute with Tehran over three islands in the gulf occupied by Iran. The largest of the three, Abu Musa, is strategically located in the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow chokepoint through which all vessels from Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and the Emirates must pass to reach the open ocean. It has been occupied by Iran since 1992.
The Bahrain statement added so much heat to the Arab-Iran conflict that the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, made a point this month of noting in an interview with Al Khaleej, an Emirati newspaper, that Syria sides with the Emirates in the dispute over the islands.
The conflict also aggravated hostility between several Arab leaders who are Sunni Muslims and their Shiite citizens. In Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, Sunni Muslim leaders accuse Iran, a Shiite country, of inciting their Shiite communities to rebel; meanwhile, the Shiites in those places say their Sunni leaders use Iran's rising influence as an excuse to step up their oppression. Some Arab leaders, including in Morocco and Bahrain, have accused Iran and its proxies of trying to convert their Sunni citizens to Shiism, a charge Iran has denied.
The gulf countries, which have immense wealth yet are extremely small geographically and have little military might, say they have valid reasons to fear their much larger Shiite neighbor, Iran. For example, the Emirates, a tiny string of nation-states, notes that it hosts 500,000 Iranian expatriates, more than the entire native population.
In any case, Sunni-Shiite tension has simmered across the region for many months. In Saudi Arabia, some of the worst clashes in years broke out in late February between Shiite pilgrims and the local police in the holy city of Medina, and have led to continuing protests among the country's minority Shiites. One Shiite cleric lashed out publicly at the authorities this month and suggested that Shiites might one day secede, a rare rebellious gesture in the tightly controlled kingdom.
In Bahrain, there have been riots nearly every night in the poor Shiite villages along the coast. The rioters, who burn tires in the street and hurl rocks and metal spikes at the police, insist that they are protesting an apartheid system that denies them opportunities equal to those of their Sunni neighbors, and they say that their government has cracked down in response to the perceived threat of the rising Shiite power in Iraq and the rising influence of Iran.
In Parliament, Mr. Maawdah, a member of a fundamentalist Sunni Muslim political party, said at least part of the blame rests with Iran. ''The region is seeking security,'' Mr. Maawdah said. ''In fact, all the region, the first thing they consider Iran because there is a very big mistrust.''
Qatar Welcomes Sudan Leader
DOHA, Qatar (AP) -- Qatar's leader embraced Sudan's president in a red-carpet welcome on Sunday as he arrived to attend an Arab League summit meeting in his most brazen act of defiance against an international arrest warrant on charges of war crimes in Darfur.
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan had promised to attend the 22-member gathering after assurances from them that they would not enforce the International Criminal Court's arrest order. But his lavish arrival suggested that Mr. Bashir would have a central role at the meeting. Mr. Bashir was greeted at the airport with an embrace and kiss by Qatar's emir.
Arab foreign ministers have endorsed a draft resolution for the group to reject the court's arrest warrant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A poster of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini on a street in a Shiite village near Manama, Bahrain. Arab leaders are angry about Iran's growing influence in the region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Bahrain has Sunni leaders, but a Shiite majority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HAMAS (75%); POLITICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) BAHRAIN (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); GULF STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1216 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: The Steadfast Optimist Who Oversaw G.M.'s Long Decline

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
DETROIT -- In recent years, despite many challenges to his leadership of General Motors, Rick Wagoner had managed to keep a firm grip on his job, like hands wrapped tight around a steering wheel.
During his tenure as chief executive, beginning in 2000, the company's stock has fallen from $70 a share to less than $4 now, and its market share has fallen roughly 10 percentage points.
There have been many challenges to his authority, most notably from the investor Kirk Kerkorian in 2006 and from angry members of Congress during hearings last fall. Throughout the attacks, he had managed to retain the unwavering support of his board. 
For a time, it seemed he might become the rare chief executive who gets another chance, this time to try to fix many of the problems that occurred on his watch.
But he appears to have met his match in President Obama, whose calls for sacrifices from all sides apparently included a call for Mr. Wagoner to step down.
In a statement early Monday, Mr. Wagoner said he had been urged to ''step aside'' by administration officials, ''and so I have.'' He thanked G.M. employees for their support. ''G.M. is a great company with a storied history.'' Mr. Wagoner said. ''Ignore the doubters because I know it is also a company with a great future.''
The United Automobile Workers union had no comment on Mr. Wagoner's departure. But Michigan's governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, echoed an fledgling sense in Detroit that Mr. Wagoner may be viewed as an auto industry martyr. Speaking on MSNBC, Gov. Granholm said Mr. Wagoner was a ''sacrficial lamb.''
During his nine years in charge, Mr. Wagoner never appeared to waver from his determination that G.M. would reclaim its spot as the unrivaled leader of the auto industry, despite steadily falling sales.
Through three major restructuring plans enacted on his watch -- eliminating dozens of plants, tens of thousands of jobs and jettisoning hundreds of dealers -- Mr. Wagoner maintained a stolid confidence in himself and the company's strength. Only recently did he acknowledge the need to significantly pare the company's brand and model lineup, to better match the company's bloated infrastructure with the shrinking market.
Only at the second round of Congressional hearings last fall did Mr. Wagoner start agreeing that the company had made mistakes, and that its problems were not all attributable to outside forces like the weakening economy and tightening credit markets.
Mr. Wagoner joined G.M.'s financial operations in 1977 out of Harvard Business School, and, like generations of executives before him, worked nowhere else during his career.
Mr. Wagoner vaulted into Detroit's consciousness in 1992 upon another resignation during a financial crisis -- that of Robert C. Stempel, the chief executive at G.M. at the time.
Then only 38, Mr. Wagoner became G.M.'s chief financial officer. Two years later, he was named president of its North American operations.
His mentor, the chief executive John F. Smith Jr., named Mr. Wagoner president of G.M. in 1998, and he succeeded Mr. Smith in the top job in 2000.
Like Mr. Smith, Mr. Wagoner aggressively expanded G.M.'s operations outside the United States. The company now sells 65 percent of its vehicles overseas, thanks to Mr. Wagoner's push into markets like China, Russia and Latin America.
However, G.M.'s sales slump at home led to it losing its longtime title last year as the world's largest auto company, replaced by Toyota.
''It's a pretty unceremonious ending,'' said John Casesa, an industry analyst and managing partner of the Casesa Shapiro Group. ''G.M. lost its way in the '70s, but the company didn't know it until 20 years late. The hole was much deeper than he realized when he became C.E.O.''
And, Mr. Casesa said, Mr. Wagoner's finance background might have been a poor fit: ''The most successful auto companies are run by people who came out of the revenue-generating functions -- manufacturing, design, marketing -- making cars and selling cars.'' Mr. Wagoner, the analyst said, ''skipped the whole apprenticeship that most auto C.E.O.'s experience.''
Mr. Wagoner presided over some of the biggest losses in G.M. history. In 2002, the company had predicted that it would earn $10 a share by the middle of the decade.
Instead, G.M. lost $30.9 billion in 2008, when its per-share loss translated to more than $50 a share. G.M. stock, an economic bellwether that sold above $35 only three years ago, closed Friday at $3.62; it has fallen as low as $1.27 in the last year.
In 1994, when he took charge of G.M.'s North American operations, the company made up 33.2 percent of auto sales in the United States.
Last month, G.M. represented only 18.8 percent of American car and truck sales, according to statistics from Motor Intelligence, which tracks industry data.
Under pressure to stop G.M.'s sliding market share, Mr. Wagoner hired Robert A. Lutz, a longtime auto industry executive, in 2002. Mr. Lutz reorganized G.M.'s product development operations, and introduced a number of new vehicles, including sporty models like the Pontiac Solstice and Saturn Sky.
Both Mr. Lutz, who had previously announced his plans to retire by year's end, and Mr. Wagoner have championed the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid electric car that G.M. plans to introduce in late 2010.
Mr. Wagoner has said that one of the moves he regretted most was G.M's decision to kill the EV-1, an electric car that it leased to customers in the late 1990s. Although the vehicle was not profitable, it helped G.M.'s image with environmentalists, which in 2006 Mr. Wagoner conceded he had understood too late.
Only six months ago, Mr. Wagoner stood in front of hundreds of G.M. employees in the atrium of the company's Detroit headquarters, celebrating the automaker's 100th anniversary.
Dressed in a gray suit and a yellow, blue and white striped tie, Mr. Wagoner said: ''So, what's our assignment for today and tomorrow? Above all, it's to demonstrate to the world that we are more than a 100-year-old company. We're a company that's ready to lead for 100 years to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Wagoner took over G.M. in 2000. Since then, shares have fallen 95 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Rick Wagoner in Detroit in February after discussing G.M.'s plans for further reorganization. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (91%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (59%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); KIRK KERKORIAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1217 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2068 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
MERKEL IS SET TO WELCOME,
And Then Resist, Obama
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is diplomatic about the coming visit by President Obama. She makes clear, however, that she is not about to start the spending like the United States has done and wants Europe to do, even as she professes to want to work closely with the new American president. PAGE A6
Sengeshong Journal
A Tibetan Art Flourishes 
The monasteries in the mountain valley of Sengeshong in China's Qinghai Province are famed for painted and cloth scrolls called thangkas. Thangkas usually depict Tibetan gods and other religious iconography. In recent years, demand for thangkas has risen, and collectors have driven up prices. A8
PALESTINIANS CONDEMN CONCERT
A Palestinian political group from the Jenin refugee camp in the West Bank denounced a camp youth orchestra's performance for Holocaust survivors in Israel last week. The group said they it was banning the orchestra's director, an Israeli Arab woman, from entering the Jenin camp. PAGE A8
IN TURKEY, ERDOGAN'S PARTY WINS
Turkey's governing party, led by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, won a close victory in nationwide municipal elections, preliminary results showed. But the party registered declines in a number of major cities. PAGE A10
DIPLOMATIC STORM OVER BAHRAIN
Bahrain, a small desert kingdom in the Persian Gulf, has become a flashpoint in a struggle for regional dominance. The dispute was sparked after an Iranian official said Bahrain was historically a province of Iran. The reaction to the comments was so severe that Iran took the unusual step of publicly apologizing. PAGE A10
FACEOFF ENDS IN BAGHDAD ENCLAVE
Shooting subsided in an area of Baghdad where a group of neighborhood guards had faced off against Iraqi and American soldiers. The guards were disarmed, but tensions remained high. PAGE A11
AFGHAN PRESIDENT CAN REMAIN SO
The Afghan Supreme Court said that to maintain stability, President Hamid Karzai may remain in power until presidential elections in August. The nonbinding opinion was the latest step in a legal fight over a three-month gap between the end of his term and the elections. PAGE A11
NO U.S. PLAN TO HALT MISSILE FIRING
The United States has no plans for military action to pre-empt the launching of a long-range missile by North Korea, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said. PAGE A13
National
IN TIGHT TIMES,
A House With Horsepower
For $2 million it's yours, a 45-foot-long recreational vehicle for those who can afford to sail along the roads of America in a yacht on wheels. The idea of paying such a price for a rolling domicile may seem excessive, but in Coburg, Ore, a good part of the economy depends on a strain of American wanderlust, and fewer people are opting to buy them in these tough times. PAGE A14
6 DEAD IN NURSING HOME SHOOTING
A gunman who opened fire at a nursing home in Carthage, N.C., killed at least six people and injured at least two, including a police officer, officials said. The gunman was also injured before he was apprehended. PAGE A14
Cholesterol Drugs May Reduce Clots A17
OBAMA TO BE TESTED IN EUROPE
President Obama returns to Europe this week against a backdrop of crisis. He has no alternative but to try to coax partners in the Group of 20 industrial and emerging-market nations to help stimulate the global economy, and to assure them he is shoring up a financial system that shoulders substantial blame for the damage. PAGE A18
AS WATERS RECEDE, LESSONS EMERGE
Fargo, N.D., has lived under the shadow of disaster for a week. Now, as the Red River appears to have crested without causing major damage, some wonder whether it was a lost opportunity for federal funds to be used for permanent flood abatement. PAGE A20
RECOVERING FROM A NEAR DISASTER
The waters slowly receded in Fargo, N.D., a promising sign for a city that had scrambled for days to hold back the Red River. PAGE A20
New York
ALBANY REACHES DEAL ON BUDGET
Concluding the most secretive budget negotiations in recent memory, Gov. David A. Paterson and leaders of the Legislature outlined a $131.8 billion agreement that would close the state's deficit with a slew of new taxes, billions of dollars from the federal stimulus and a substantial slowdown in the growth of health care spending. PAGE A23
Obituaries
HELEN LEVITT, 95
A major photographer of the 20th century who focused her lens on moments of surpassing lyricism, mystery and quiet drama on the streets of her native New York. PAGE A25
Business
WITH A NUDGE FROM THE PRESIDENT, G.M.'S CHIEF EXECUTIVE RESIGNS
In recent years, despite many challenges to his leadership of General Motors, Rick Wagoner had managed to keep a firm grip on his job. But he appears to have met his match in President Obama, whose calls for sacrifices from all sides apparently included a call for Mr. Wagoner to step down. Mr. Wagoner agreed to the suggestion by the administration, and he resigned. PAGE B1
PEUGEOT REPLACES CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The French automaker PSA Peugeot Citroen, citing the global downturn, fired its chief executive and replaced him with a veteran of the steel industry. Peugeot, the No. 2 European carmaker, said that Philippe Varin, chief executive of the steel company Corus, would replace Christian Streiff. PAGE B2
Breakingviews.com B2
Arts
Theater Review
Incredible Courage in Dark Times Is Put on Stage (Bring Tissues)
Theatergoers planning to see ''Irena's Vow,'' a play by Dan Gordon at the Walter Kerr Theater, will want to prime their tear ducts. Tovah Feldshuh portrays Irena Gut Opdyke -- a young Polish woman who helped a dozen Jews survive the Holocaust (it is a true story) -- in a canny, effective performance, writes Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
Critics' Choice/New CDs C1
3-D HELPS DRIVE 'MONSTERS' SUCCESS
DreamWorks Animation's new 3-D movie, ''Monsters vs. Aliens,'' sold an estimated $58.2 million in tickets at North American theaters over the weekend, a number that is significant for two reasons. First, it is the biggest opening this year. But perhaps more importantly, the film's box-office receipts appear to show that that audiences sought out the 3-D format. PAGE C2
Arts in Brief C2
Music Reviews
A Farm Team for Baroque Rarities
Le Jardin des Voix -- a training program for young singers started by William Christie -- is a bona fide season highlight for early-music fans. When Mr. Christie brought this year's crop to Alice Tully Hall on Saturday, the concert was sold out. The concert ''was the most completely satisfying of the three Jardin performances I've heard,'' Allan Kozinn writes. PAGE C3
SOUND OF ARGENTINA AT ZANKEL HALL
Chango Spasiuk performed on Friday as part of the World Music Institute's World Views series. Mr. Spasiuk, an Argentine accordionist, brilliantly transformed the traditional dance music he grew up with, chamame, into concert repertory, Jon Pareles writes. PAGE C3
SHUBERT SONGS AT CARNEGIE HALL
The English tenor Ian Bostridge, with his lanky frame and haunted eyes, evokes the tortured young poets and lovers of Schubert's lieder before even singing a note. In a recital on Saturday, he and a pianist offered 20 selections from the composer's vast output in the genre. PAGE C3
Plucking the Jazzy Cello at Barbes C3
Books of The Times
Looking at Darfur in Context
Mahmood Mamdani is one of the most penetrating analysts of African affairs. In ''Saviors and Survivors: Darfur, Politics, and the War on Terror,'' he gives the Darfur crisis a historical context and questions the logic of those who seek to place it at the pinnacle of Africa's recent troubles. PAGE C4
Royal Danish Ballet in Copenhagen C7
Sports
AFTER AN UNFAMILIAR SCARE,
Huskies Pull Out a Big Win
Connecticut survived an early scare, falling behind 8 points early in its N.C.A.A. regional semifinal against California. It was a deficit the Huskies had not faced in their first 35 games this year. But the undefeated team, led by 28 points from the freshman guard Tiffany Hayes, went on to a 77-53 victory, and rolled to their 10th Final Four appearance. PAGE D4
BIG-TIME HOOPS' MEAT MARKET
Though most top-flight basketball players arrive at their destinations by the diligence of recruiters, many coaches at powerhouse programs woo them by bending the rules. So where does that leave new head coaches and those at midlevel programs who aspire to do well in the N.C.A.A. tournament? William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE d4
A FINAL SHOT FOR MARYLAND SENIORS
After a clutch 3-pointer by the Maryland freshman Kristi Tolliver sent the 2006 national title game into overtime -- setting up an upset victory against Duke -- many thought the young squad had lots of similarly memorable moments ahead. But the team never matched those grand expectations, and Toliver and Marissa Coleman, another key player from that team, are now seniors trying for one last shot at the Final Four. PAGE D5
GARDNER TO START IN CENTER FIELD
Yankees manager Joe Girardi replaced Melky Cabrera in center field, declaring that Brett Gardner would be his starter. While the two had similar batting numbers -- each scored 10 runs and walked six times -- the difference, Girardi said of the decision, was Gardner's superior speed. PAGE D6
A DRESS REHEARAL FOR CITI FIELD
As Citi Field gets ready for its official adoption by the Mets, 22,397 fans turned out at the ballpark, which played host to a Big East matchup between St. John's and Georgetown, and there was a flurry of activity as workers tried to apply some finishing touches. PAGE D7
JOCKEYING FOR OLYMPIC POSITION
With the Olympic Games in Vancouver less than a year away, top skaters from around the world used last week's world championships as a chance to improve their chances. Rachael Flatt finished highest among the American skaters, a ranking made more important as she vies for one of two open spots on next year's squad, instead of the usual three. PAGE D8
22 Killed at World Cup Qualifier D9
Editorial
REVIEWING CRIMINAL JUSTICE
America's criminal justice system needs repair. A bill introduced last week by Senator Jim Webb, which would establish a national commission to review the system from top to bottom, should be given high priority on the Congressional calendar. PAGE A28
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
These days America is looking like the Bernard Madoff of economies: for many years it was held in respect, even awe, but it turns out to have been a fraud all along. And the damage to its reputation has come just when we, and the world, need it most. PAGE A29
KEEPING OUR HEADS
Natasha Richardson's death shines light on the fact that hardly anyone outside an emergency room knows how to respond to brain trauma. In an Op-Ed article, Michael Paul Mason, the author of ''Head Cases: Stories of Brain Injury and Its Aftermath,'' argues that Americans should get more serious about protecting the brain. PAGE A29
Media
WHY PAY FOR CABLE?
In the last couple of years, the television industry has made a big push to put their shows on the Web, mostly for free. But many in the industry are now questioning whether free is a sustainable model. And some are trying to keep the hefty cable bill alive. PAGE B1
The Media Equation
Cable News Clings to Election
It's hardly an epiphany that in order to feed the 24/7 beast, cable news has to turn every little thing into a big event. But something else has been at work on the cable news stations lately. Gorged on ratings from a historic election, the networks have become campaign addicts. David Carr holds an intervention. PAGE B1
CHRONICLE IN DIRE STRAITS
Extinction has been hovering over The San Francisco Chronicle. Some fault lies with the geography, demographics, competition and technology that make the Bay Area perhaps the toughest newspaper market in the country. PAGE B1
Do-It-Yourself Glossy Magazine B1
The Huffington Post Investigates B2
NEW MEDIA TESTS GAME MAKERS
Booming video game sales belie a serious concern for video game companies: their economic model is in peril. The companies cannot charge enough or sell enough games to cover the cost of producing most titles for the newest consoles. And the bigger threat may be the rise of cheap or free games on the Web and on phones. PAGE B3
Link by Link
British Courts Chasing Web
British courts have been trying to preserve what they see as litigants' rights even in the face of an onslaught of information on the Internet. To some, this may be a final, futile effort. PAGE B3
Drilling Down: Big Bills B3
MTV to Put More Music in A.M. B4
European Papers Get Creative B4

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); MOUNTAINS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RELIGION (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CITIES (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); REFUGEES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANGELA MERKEL (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (68%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) XIZANG, CHINA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (69%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); BAHRAIN (93%); TIBET (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1218 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2619 words

HEADLINE: WAR WITHOUT BORDERS; In an Escalating Drug War, Mexico Fights the Cartels, and Itself

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Elisabeth Malkin and Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting from Mexico City.

 BODY:
REYNOSA, Mexico -- An army convoy on the hunt for traffickers rolled out of its base recently in this border town under the control of the Gulf Cartel -- and an ominous voice crackled over a two-way radio frequency to announce just that. The voice, belonging to a cartel spy, then broadcast the soldiers' route through the city, turn by turn, using the same military language as the soldiers.
''They're following us,'' Col. Juan Jose Gomez, who was monitoring the transmission from the front seat of an olive-green pickup truck, said with a shrug.
The presence of the informers, some of them former soldiers, highlights a central paradox in Mexico's ambitious and bloody assault on the drug cartels that have ravaged the country. The nation has begun a war, but it cannot fully rely on the very institutions -- the police, customs, the courts, the prisons, even the relatively clean army -- most needed to carry it out. 
The cartels bring in billions of dollars more than the Mexican government spends to defeat them, and they spend their wealth to bolster their ranks with an untold number of politicians, judges, prison guards and police officers -- so many police officers, in fact, that entire forces in cities across Mexico have been disbanded and rebuilt from scratch.
Over the past year, the country's top organized crime prosecutor has been arrested for receiving cartel cash, as was the director of Interpol in Mexico. The cartels even managed to slip a mole inside the United States Embassy. Those in important positions who have resisted taking cartel money are often shot to death, a powerful incentive to others who might be wavering.
This was a war started by Mexico, but supported -- and in some ways undermined -- by the United States. The template was made in the United States, a counternarcotics strategy originally designed for Colombia. Mexico is using American intelligence to track the traffickers and is awaiting a fleet of American helicopters and aircraft to pursue them, part of hundreds of millions of dollars in aid initiated by President George W. Bush and expanded in recent days by President Obama.
At the same time, American drug users are fueling demand for the drugs, and American guns are supplying the firepower wielded with such ferocity by Mexico's cartels -- a reality acknowledged by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on her trip to Mexico last week.
With the prospect of a quick victory increasingly elusive, a rising chorus of voices on both sides of the border is questioning the cost and the fallout of the assault on the cartels.
Mexicans, aghast at the rising body count, the mutilated corpses on their streets and the swagger of the drug chieftains, wonder if they are paying too high a price in pursuing organized crime groups that have operated for generations on their soil. ''Sometimes, I think this is a war you can't really win,'' a Mexican soldier whispered to a reporter, out of earshot of his commander, during a recent drug patrol in Reynosa. ''You do what you can, but there's so many more of them than us.''
Americans, including border state governors and military analysts in Washington, have begun to question whether the spillover violence presents a threat to their own national security, and, to the outrage of many Mexicans, whether the country itself will crumble under the strain of the war.
A War's Origins
The impetus for the drug war began during President Felipe Calderon's 2006 campaign.
Although the economy was the No. 1 issue, Mr. Calderon, a law-and-order technocrat, was paying attention to a steady rise in criminality early on. Mr. Calderon received threats on his life from drug cartels during the campaign, fueling his outrage, according to officials close to him. And he began to suspect that drug money was finding its way into political parties.
After a nail-biter of a victory, by about half of a percent of the 41 million ballots cast, so close that his main opponent still does not recognize it, Mr. Calderon opted to send the army into the streets to fight the drug cartels. He aimed for the bold step to win the support of the crime-weary population and to bolster his legitimacy as the president for all Mexicans.
While his contested election seemed to fade quickly from public discussion, the drug war proved a bigger headache. About 28 months down the line, the government trumpets record seizures of drugs, money and guns to show that it is striking serious blows against the traffickers.
As further evidence of success, the government cites the tens of thousands of arrests it has made of rank-and-file members of the four main Mexican cartels and of some of the kingpins leading them. Recently, three top traffickers have been arrested, including one accused of organizing an assault on the United States Consulate in Monterrey.
The United States Drug Enforcement Administration says Mexico's battle against drugs is clamping down on supplies, citing the doubling of cocaine prices in the United States over the past two years.
But violence has gone up, not down. Although Mexicans have largely backed Mr. Calderon's efforts, the figure they seem most fixated on these days is the more than 6,200 drug-related killings in 2008, up more than 100 percent from 2007, and the more than 1,100 so far in 2009.
The deaths, many of them gruesome mutilations intended by the cartels to attract notice, come from dealers enforcing discipline within their ranks, from bitter turf battles among rival cartels and from clashes between criminals and the authorities. Prompting the most outrage, but representing the smallest number, are innocents struck down by stray bullets, enveloped by the ever-present drug war.
While Mr. Calderon dismisses critiques suggesting that Mexico is a failed state, he and his aides have spoken bluntly of the cartels' attempts to set up a state within a state, levying taxes, throwing up roadblocks and enforcing their own codes of behavior. The Mexican government says there are now 233 ''zones of impunity,'' areas where crime runs rampant, down from 2,204 zones a year ago.
Mr. Calderon and his security team argue that the violence shows the desperation of the cartels as the government dismantles them. The D.E.A. agrees that the cartels are in their death throes, but it says it expects the violence to get worse in the near future.
Any projection that tougher times are on the horizon alarms an already jittery public. Tougher than the head of the federal police killed by hitmen last year? Tougher than the heads of nine soldiers found in plastic bags? Tougher than the cartels flaunting their power by hanging banners on bridges listing their demands?
National Weaknesses
It has long been considered a Mexican cultural eccentricity that the country's police officers are poorly paid and encouraged by supervisors to make ends meet through bribes. These days, however, those offering the biggest mordidas, as the illicit changing of money is known, are the traffickers, who Mr. Calderon's administration acknowledges have thousands of police officers, small-town mayors and even high-level government officials across the country on their payroll, something now regarded as a full-fledged national crisis.
''Anybody could be a narco,'' said a Mexican government official, using the Spanish slang for someone with links to the drug traffickers.
In fact, before the Mexican government names someone to a high-level antidrug post, it often runs the leading candidates by the D.E.A., which conducts background checks and lie-detector tests to ensure that the people about to be hired to fight criminals are not criminals themselves.
Even in normal times, when morgues are not overflowing, the bulk of Mexico's crimes are never solved. One investigation found that only 24 of every 1,000 crimes reported to authorities resulted in suspects being sentenced. Of every 100 people taken into custody on suspicion of committing a crime, fewer than 4 were ever found guilty, the same study found. Evidence is mishandled, witnesses refuse to speak and the judiciary is manipulated.
The authorities often spotlight arrests, hauling the suspects before the cameras, and then quietly release them after the 80 days of investigation that Mexico's system allows.
Mexicans long ago lost faith in their judicial authorities. One recent study found that about 90 percent of those who have been victims of a crime never reported the episode to the authorities, convinced it would do no good.
''I didn't see anything,'' is the national refrain, one that Mr. Calderon is chipping away at with anonymous tip lines and beefed-up rewards.
The United States government, which has set aside a portion of its aid money for so-called institution building and judicial reform in Mexico, recently estimated that 450,000 Mexicans were making their living in the drug industry, about one-third of them involved directly in the business of trafficking drugs and two-thirds cultivating drugs in the countryside. But nobody really knows how many people are linked to what is a sprawling drug economy.
Some are inside Mexican customs, where someone recently dabbed Vicks VapoRub on the nose of a drug-sniffing dog. Airports, land borders and seaports have been a clearinghouse for the cartels' central ingredients -- illegal drugs, illicit cash and smuggled guns -- as some customs employees charged with searching for the goods have turned a blind eye for a fee. In fact, American authorities are discussing a plan to inspect vehicles leaving the United States for Mexico to make sure they are not carrying contraband.
Mexico's prison system presents another vulnerability. Joaquin Guzman Loera, the leader of the Sinaloa Cartel and the most-wanted man in Mexico, presides over a huge drug production and trafficking operation with the help of an extensive network of turncoat politicians and police officers. Although he was sent to prison, he managed to bribe prison officials to help him escape in 2001. Aware that Mexican prisons are often run by the prisoners, Mexico has been extraditing record numbers of drug suspects to the United States, something it resisted doing for years.
On Thursday, a man who was in the process of being extradited to the United States for drug trafficking received help in escaping from a hospital in Chihuahua State, where he was undergoing medical treatment under police guard. The men who facilitated his escape were apparently his fellow traffickers, and the authorities are also investigating whether some of the police guards were part of the breakout plan.
Although Mexico's military is regarded as significantly less corrupt than the country's police forces, defense officials estimate that 100,000 soldiers have quit to join the cartels over the past seven years.
In Reynosa, the Gulf Cartel, which controls a vast swath of territory along Mexico's eastern coastline, has hired a paramilitary force, known as the Zetas, to protect its turf. Founded by army deserters, their arsenal is so extensive that even their system of informants cannot keep it hidden.
On night patrol in Reynosa in November, soldiers came upon some suspicious men, who led them to a house that was packed with armaments for the drug cartels -- 540 rifles, 165 grenades, 500,000 rounds of ammunition and 14 sticks of dynamite. It was Mexico's biggest arms seizure to date -- but the owners of the cache themselves, as they so often do, escaped to fight again.
The reach of the drug kingpins has even the army fearful. Many soldiers cover their faces while on patrol to avoid being identified and singled out by the drug cartels. The army also recently began allowing soldiers to grow their hair longer, because military-style crew cuts were believed to be putting off-duty soldiers at risk.
To address the problem of corruption in the military, the Defense Ministry has proposed a 60-year prison term for any soldier linked to organized crime. Commanders admit that they must carefully guard information on their missions from potential cartel members in uniform. And the roadblocks they set up, like one that stopped cars recently near the bridge connecting Reynosa and McAllen, Tex., only work for a few minutes before cartel spies discover them and route traffic elsewhere.
''Imagine Bush sending a military infiltrated with Taliban to Afghanistan,'' said Samuel Gonzalez, a security analyst who was the top drug prosecutor in the presidential administration of Ernesto Zedillo in the 1990s. He likens the fighting in Mexico to the trench warfare of World War I.
''It's block by block,'' he said.
Quest for Alternatives
The war analogy is not a stretch for parts of Mexico. Soldiers, more than 40,000 of them, are confronting heavily armed paramilitary groups on city streets. The military-grade weapons being used, antitank rockets and armor-piercing munitions, for example, are the same ones found on the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan.
The country's challenge, though, may be tougher than that of a conventional war. The enemy is more nebulous and the battlefield is everywhere -- in border towns like Tijuana, regional capitals like Culiacan and in the metropolis of Mexico City, where Mr. Calderon gathers with his national security staff every morning in his wooded compound ringed by soldiers to strategize and count the previous day's dead. The presidential protective detail got a thorough review after one of its members was found to have received money from a cartel.
The brutality and brazenness -- the fact that drug assassins are chopping off heads, dissolving bodies in acid and posting notes on mutilated corpses taunting the authorities -- has prompted more and more second guessing of Mr. Calderon's approach.
''Calderon took a stick and whacked the beehive,'' Javier Valdez, a Sinaloa journalist who covers the drug trade, said in an oft-heard critique of Mexico's drug war.
The Mexican president is faulted for starting a head-on assault on the heavily armed cartels without first gathering intelligence on them, without first preparing a trustworthy police force to take them on, without preparing the country for how rough it would turn out to be.
He is taken to task for not aggressively pursuing the politicians collaborating with the cartels. He is criticized for failing to put a significant dent in the drug profits that fuel the cartels' operations.
An effort is under way to change laws to make it easier to seize businesses that are linked to traffickers, but it has been bogged down by fierce political infighting. ''We keep hearing we're going to win,'' Victor Hugo Cirigo Vasquez, the speaker of the Mexico City Assembly, said to a reporter recently. ''That's what the U.S. president said in Vietnam.''
There are calls for a completely new approach. One of Mr. Calderon's predecessors, Mr. Zedillo, recently joined two other former heads of state from Latin America in pushing for a complete rethinking of the drug war, including the legalization of marijuana, which is considered the top revenue generator for Mexican drug cartels.
Mexico is nowhere near such a transformative step as legalizing drugs, which would cut drug profits but also might cause use to soar. Still, there are initiatives on the horizon.
Three years ago, the Mexican Congress passed a plan to decriminalize the possession of small quantities of cocaine and other drugs, but Vicente Fox, then the president, killed the bill after American officials raised an alarm. Mr. Calderon made a similar proposal last fall, albeit lowering the amounts still further, and this time American officials did not utter a peep.
WAR WITHOUT BORDERS: This is the second article in a series examining the impact of Mexican drug cartels on both sides of the border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mexican Army soldiers on patrol in Reynosa, a border town. A cartel has its own armed force there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Mexican Army soldiers on a night patrol in Reynosa. Drug cartels in Mexico bring in billions of dollars more than the government spends to defeat them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
An officer escorted a man suspected of working with Jesus Alfonso Trapero Ibarra, a former police officer said to be a figure in a drug trafficking group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Some of the 13 corpses that were discovered in a bus in December in Sinaloa State. The deaths were tied to a massacre in Mexico's drug wars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO MILLAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A12) MAP: The battlefield in Mexico's war on drugs is said to be everywhere.
CHART: DRUG VIOLENCE: The number of drug-related killings in Mexico has increased sharply in the past year, according to the country's National Commission for Human Rights. (Sources: Mexico's National Commission for Human Rights
 Mexican Attorney General's Office) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CARTELS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ARMIES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ESPIONAGE (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ARRESTS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); SHOOTINGS (63%); HELICOPTERS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1219 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Progress

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
I was studying physics in college 20 years ago this month, when two chemists at the University of Utah promised that they could unleash the energy of the sun in a test tube at room temperature, and meet the entire world's energy needs forever with some cooked up water and a couple of electrodes. 
 The exhilaration at the genesis of the new science of ''cold fusion'' faded fairly quickly. Scores of scientists around the world tried and failed to replicate the Utah scientists' wondrous results. Irksome physicists pointed out that the process the chemists described violated several laws of nature. 
 To me, however, those heady few months bring to mind something more than the hubristic enthusiasm of some overheated men in lab coats. The experience provides a lasting lesson about our faith in technology as the solution to our challenges, and the cover it provides to avoid hard choices on things like, say, conserving energy. It's a warning about the pitfalls of our unshakeable belief in the limitless promise of our endeavors, regardless of reality's constraints. It is a lesson about the dangers of our love affair with progress. 
 This breed of delusion is ubiquitous across American history. In the 1990s it laid the ground from which Pets.com, Kozmo.com and Webvan sprang up to revolutionize capitalism, until they didn't. It can be found in the trust placed in Bernard Madoff and his unfathomable perpetual 11 percent-plus rate of return. Most damaging, it nurtured the belief that home prices would rise forever.
 Contemplating the economic rubble from our most recent paroxysm of enthusiasm, I wonder whether we should do something about our blind passions. I've heard the supporting arguments, of course, about how optimism seeds the American Dream, nurturing the entrepreneurial zeal that supports the nation's prosperity. And it's true that the Internet bubble bequeathed us the Internet as we know it. I'm told optimism also helps patients recover from coronary bypass surgery.
 Still, I can't help thinking that repackaging the future as a basketful of promise is a con. Recent research from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has found that the son of a poor American father has more than a 40 percent chance of being poor himself -- higher odds than in, say, Britain, Norway or Denmark. The income of the typical American household was lower in 2007 than it was in 1999. This aspect of the American Dream seems like a dream only. 
 I am confident that we shall keep on dreaming, however, regardless of the damage this periodically inflicts. On the anniversary of the ''discovery'' in Utah 20 years ago, a Navy chemist breathlessly announced to a meeting of the American Chemical Society in Salt Lake City that her lab had nailed it, finally, finding ''significant'' evidence of cold fusion. Now they call the phenomenon a ''low-energy nuclear reaction,'' presumably to overcome the stigma. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); PHYSICS (78%); CHEMICALS (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: IPET HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (84%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1220 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: The Minnesota Orchestra Cuts Back

BYLINE: Compiled by LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
In the latest sign of the recession's impact on the arts, the Minnesota Orchestra, one of the nation's premier regional classical orchestras, has announced a 7 percent reduction in its budget. The music director, Osmo Vanska, will have his salary cut by 10 percent and other employees, depending on their positions, will be subject to measures that include a wage freeze and salary reductions of up to 5 percent. The orchestra's more than 90 musicians, whose salaries account for about half the orchestra's approximately $30 million budget, are not immediately affected by the cuts. This month the organization scaled back its annual Sommerfest to three weeks from four and canceled another event popular in the Twin Cities after a corporate sponsor withdrew. The fate of a program to refurbish the orchestra's home, Orchestra Hall, a $90 million project announced in 2007, is not clear. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET CUTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MUSIC (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1221 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: In Foreclosure Crisis, a Rise in Banks Walking Away

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: SOUTH BEND, Ind. 

 BODY:
Mercy James thought she had lost her rental property here to foreclosure. A date for a sheriff's sale had been set, and notices about the foreclosure process were piling up in her mailbox.
 Ms. James had the tenants move out, and soon her white house at the corner of Thomas and Maple Streets fell into the hands of looters and vandals, and then, into disrepair. Dejected and broke, Ms. James said she salvaged but a lesson from her loss.
 So imagine her surprise when the City of South Bend contacted her recently, demanding that she resume maintenance on the property. The sheriff's sale had been canceled at the last minute, leaving the property title -- and a world of trouble -- in her name. 
 ''I thought, 'What kind of game is this?' '' Ms. James, 41, said while picking at trash at the house, now so worthless the city plans to demolish it -- another bill for which she will be liable. 
 City officials and housing advocates here and in cities as varied as Buffalo, Kansas City, Mo., and Jacksonville, Fla., say they are seeing an unsettling development: Banks are quietly declining to take possession of properties at the end of the foreclosure process, most often because the cost of the ordeal -- from legal fees to maintenance -- exceeds the diminishing value of the real estate.
 The so-called bank walkaways rarely mean relief for the property owners, caught unaware months after the fact, and often mean additional financial burdens and bureaucratic headaches. Technically, they still owe on the mortgage, but as a practicality, rarely would a mortgage holder receive any more payments on the loan. The way mortgages are bundled and resold, it can be enormously time-consuming just trying to determine what company holds the loan on a property thought to be in foreclosure. 
 In Ms. James's case, the company that was most recently servicing her loan is now defunct. Its parent company filed for bankruptcy and dissolved. And the original bank that sold her the loan said it could not find a record of it.
 ''It is what some of us think is the next wave of the crisis,'' said Kermit Lind, a clinical professor at the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law and an expert on foreclosure law.
 For older industrial cities like South Bend, hard times in the mortgage market began before the recent national downturn, as did the problem of bank walkaways. In the case of Ms. James, a home health care administrator, the foreclosure proceedings began in the summer of 2007, when she could not keep up with the adjustable rate on her mortgage.
 In Buffalo, where officials said the problem had reached ''epidemic'' proportions in recent months, the city sued 37 banks last year, claiming they were responsible for the deterioration of at least 57 abandoned homes; the city chose a sampling of houses to include in the lawsuit, even though the banks had walked away from many more foreclosures. So far, five banks have settled.
 In Kansas City, Rachel Foley, a lawyer who handles housing cases, said bank walkaways were ''a rare occurrence two to three years ago.''
 ''We're seeing them dumped more and more at the moment,'' she said. 
 Experts suggest the bank walkaways are most visible in states where foreclosures are processed through the courts and therefore tend to be more transparent. Other states, like Indiana and New York, have court-mandated foreclosures, but roughly half of the states allow foreclosures to proceed without court intervention, making it difficult to accurately count the number of bank walkaways in recent months.
 The soft housing market and the vandalism that often occurs when a house sits empty are the two main factors influencing the mortgage holders' decisions to walk away, said Larry Rothenberg, a lawyer for Weltman, Weinberg & Reis, one of the larger creditors' rights firms in the country.
 ''Oftentimes when the foreclosure starts out, it's a viable property,'' Mr. Rothenberg said, ''but by the time it gets to a sheriff's sale, it might not have enough value to justify further expense. We've always had cases where property was vandalized or lost value, but they were rare compared to these times.''
 The problem seems most acute at the bottom of the market -- houses that were inexpensive to begin with -- and with investment properties, where investors and banks want speedy closure by writing off bad loans as losses. Banks and investors typically lose 40 percent to 50 percent of their investment on every foreclosure.
 Guy Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry newsletter, said some properties had become such liabilities for investors that it was not even worth holding on to them to strip valuable fixtures, like kitchen appliances, toilets and hardware. 
 ''The whole purpose of foreclosure is to take title of the property, sell it and recoup what money you can,'' Mr. Cecala said. ''It's just a sign of the times that things are so bad no one wants to take possession of the property.''
 In South Bend, boarded-up houses for whom no one has stepped forward are dotting the landscape, adding a fresh layer of blight to communities that were already scarred from the area's industrial decline. 
 The city is hoping to create a new type of legal mediation process that would bring together the homeowners and the mortgage holders to settle their disputes while allowing the owners to remain in the home -- considered crucial to any stabilization effort. 
 ''I'd say in the last three or four months, we've seen dozens of these cases,'' said Chuck Leone, the South Bend city attorney. ''We see it one of two ways. One is that the bank will simply dismiss the foreclosure complaint. The other is that the mortgage holder will follow through and take a judgment of foreclosure, but then not schedule the property for sheriff's sale.''
 In Ms. James's case, it has been impossible to determine who canceled the sheriff's sale, since her last mortgage holder went out of business. Even the city clerk's records did not provide an answer.
 ''Nobody has any idea who owns what or who's responsible,'' said Judy Fox, Ms. James's lawyer at the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic. ''It's a very common story.''
 Mayor Stephen J. Luecke of South Bend added: ''It's just a crime the way it puts people in limbo. They first off have gone through the grief of losing their house, then they move out and find out that they still own it and have responsibility for it.''
 In Jacksonville, Fla., Sylvester Kimbrough Jr. found himself caught in the limbo between foreclosure and ownership last year, 10 years into his 30-year mortgage on a $42,000 two-bedroom house. 
 Mr. Kimbrough, 56, a former driver for a car dealership who is now unemployed, had already moved out when he learned that the foreclosure had been stopped.
 ''That move really almost destroyed us,'' Mr. Kimbrough said. ''It was all for nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mercy James's rental property in South Bend, Ind., was in foreclosure, but a sheriff's sale was canceled at the last minute.
 After Ms. James had her tenants move out, vandals hit the home. It is set for demolition, but the title is still in her name. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); VANDALISM (73%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (70%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (94%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (55%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%) INDIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1222 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: A Brooklyn Bike Race Worthy of James Dean

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
The old cobblestones on the Red Hook waterfront in Brooklyn have felt the weight of many kinds of vehicles, from wagons to tractor trailers to the snazzy cars and S.U.V.'s of the neighborhood's newer residents. But as a soft drizzle fell on Saturday night, the stones felt something new -- a clandestine bicycle race.
 From shortly after 11 p.m. until nearly midnight, about two dozen cyclists hurtled over the bumps and around the tight turns of several blocks near the East River while spectators cheered from sidewalks. 
 The race, called the Red Hook Criterium, was organized by David August Trimble to celebrate his 26th birthday, which had been a few days earlier. Among the participants were art dealers, bike messengers, graduate students and at least one man who said he was happily unemployed. All were riding track bikes -- fixed gear bicycles fit with narrow tires and aerodynamic frames for racing. And no brakes.
 Before the race, bicyclists arrived at Mr. Trimble' s home on Dikeman Street, where they pinned numbers to their shirts. Mr. Trimble, a designer for an architectural firm, explained that he had conceived of the criterium -- a contest usually run on a short course on city streets -- to draw together divergent strains of racers.
 ''It's a combination of two different scenes,'' he said. ''It's part road racing and part fixed-gear alley cat.''
 As in road races -- like the Tour de France or the Giro d'Italia -- contestants followed a set course, riding in packs nearly wheel to wheel. But they also benefited from skills usually honed in outlaw messenger races, called alley cats, in which participants speed along urban streets weaving around potholes, pedestrians and moving vehicles.
 Mr. Trimble spread the word to friends, and the race aroused attention in the blogosphere, where the setting appeared to elicit nearly as much interest as the contest itself. Bikeblognyc.com, for instance, described the criterium as ''an unsanctioned race through a desolate, postindustrial part of Brooklyn.''
 Perhaps drawn by the visual prospects, several photographers showed up. And a filmmaker named Kalim Armstrong arrived with a nine-person crew and eight digital cameras, including one mounted on a bike helmet that he hoped would capture the vertiginous feeling of speeding through dark streets.
 About 11 p.m., the racers left Mr. Trimble's home and assembled on Beard Street, where the cobblestones studded the surface of the road and tall shipyard cranes loomed on the horizon.
 Although the organizers had not sought official permission, there were several police officers on hand. They did not try to stop the race but warned the riders to avoid the parking lot of the Ikea store on Beard Street. 
 The race began with a sharp whistle, starting the cyclists on the first of 16 laps around a three-quarter-mile course running in a rough rectangle along Columbia, Van Dyke and Richards Streets.
 They sped past the Erie Basin Auto Pound, where the police keep vehicles that are being held as evidence, and past hulking brick warehouses and wood frame residences. They passed stacks of marble slabs in a dirt lot surrounded by a fence topped with shiny barbed wire and a mural on a sheet metal wall that depicted an unplugged television.
 Car traffic was sparse and the race course was nearly silent except for the hiss of rubber wheels and occasional cries of encouragement from small groups of spectators, some of whom had gathered at a spot where Sigourney, Ostego and Van Dyke Streets formed a treacherous stretch that included two sharp, swerving turns.
 The race ended 30 minutes after it began, won by Neil Bezdek, a 24-year-old management consultant. Mr. Trimble finished second, about 30 seconds behind.
 Then riders and spectators adjourned to Mr. Trimble's backyard, where they drank from a keg of beer as Mr. Bezdek was awarded several prizes, including a jar of homemade granola, a bottle of olive oil and a cobblestone from Beard Street, which he victoriously hoisted above his head while standing on a winner's podium of stacked milk crates.
 Nearby, the third-place finisher, John Kniesly, 27, analyzed the course.
 ''The cobbles got dicey,'' he said. ''A lot of slipping and a lot of near falls.''
 Mr. Armstrong, the filmmaker, said he was looking forward to viewing footage from the helmet cam.
 ''It'll be dark and grainy and there's going to be rain on the lens,'' he said. ''But that's O.K. because our idea was to show this race how it actually is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the Red Hook Criterium, cyclists rode 16 laps of a route on city streets, without any brakes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (92%); AUTO RACING (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CATS (64%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%); SHIPBUILDING (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (54%); ART DEALERS (54%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1223 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Web TV, for Subscribers Only

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and BRIAN STELTER. 
Brian Stelter reported from Milwaukee, and Brad Stone from San Francisco.

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
In the last couple of years, the television industry has made a big push onto the Web, giving viewers hope that they might one day reach nirvana: every show ever made, available online for immediate free viewing.
 But many in the industry are now questioning whether free is a sustainable model. And some are trying to make sure people have a reason to keep paying hefty cable bills.
 Time Warner Cable, the second-largest cable operator in the country, is working with customers here to test a subscriber model for online TV viewing. Residents who pay for HBO can watch ''Big Love,'' ''Entourage'' and other programs on their computers, using special software and a personal log-in. People who are not HBO subscribers are barred from the service.
 One night this month, while their two children slept upstairs, Steve Glynn, 35, used headphones to watch the HBO series ''In Treatment'' on his laptop through the service, while in the same room his wife, Kerri, watched ''Dancing With the Stars'' on the family television. 
 Although he says he watches TV infrequently, Mr. Glynn is a convert to HBO, now that the shows and movies are accessible in his lap. And he wants more. ''We need this to be across all of Time Warner's channels, not just HBO,'' Mr. Glynn said.
 The Time Warner test is one of several signs that the recession-weakened television industry is re-evaluating its plan for bringing TV to the Web. By all measures, full-length television shows on the Web have tremendous appeal, as millions of Americans log on to catch up on episodes they miss on TV and to discover new shows. 
 The free video Web site Hulu, a joint venture of NBC Universal and the News Corporation, counted 35 million unique viewers in February -- only a fraction of the hundreds of millions who watch TV every month, but a 42 percent jump from January, according to comScore. The ratings for some programs, like ''Lost'' on ABC, would rise as much as 25 percent if online views were included, according to the ratings service Nielsen.
 Nevertheless, television executives are developing a different model in which only subscribers to traditional cable and satellite services would be able to access the full breadth of shows online.
 Leading the charge are the cable and satellite companies, who worry that the proliferation of free video on the Web -- and downloadable shows on Apple's iTunes -- may be harming the $60-billion-a-year subscription video business by allowing people to unplug their cable services. 
 AT&T, Comcast, DirecTV, Time Warner Cable and Verizon are among the companies exploring a subscribers-only approach to online TV, according to television executives with knowledge of the talks. The distributors have approached cable channel companies like Viacom, owner of MTV, VH1 and Comedy Central; Scripps Networks, owner of HGTV and the Food Network; the BBC; and Discovery to talk about giving subscribers online access to their shows. The Wall Street Journal first reported on some of those talks last month.
 Time Warner has also approached YouTube about distributing episodes from channels it controls, including TNT and TBS, people with knowledge of the preliminary discussions said. That could make YouTube, which is owned by Google, a major player in the market for longer videos -- something it has not managed to accomplish on its own.
 Cable executives expect broader tests by this summer of the new systems, which require them to develop technology to identify their subscribers when they go online. The approach is expected to be a hot topic at the cable industry's annual trade show in Washington this week.
 There are also signs that broadcasters and cable networks are worried that their initial, highly publicized push to put some of their programs online may be threatening the higher revenue they bring in when the same material runs on regular television. Cable networks are loath to put programs online unless they can maintain the per-subscriber fee that they receive from distributors.
 Almost every show from the broadcast networks is now free online, at the networks' sites or at hubs like Hulu, while almost every cable show is not. But in recent months, there have been signs of retrenchment by the broadcasters; CBS no longer streams its hit show ''The Mentalist,'' for instance.
 ''Every single network is having a hard time trying to figure out how to make money on their Internet delivery,'' said Brian Baker, the chief executive of Widevine Technologies, which helps owners of content distribute their programming securely online. ''Advertisers are not willing to pay top dollar for content delivered over the Internet to PCs, and it's beginning to jeopardize the multibillion-dollar relationship the networks have with their cable and satellite providers.''
 The revenues and stock prices of the major media companies have fallen significantly in the last six months, giving ammunition to the critics who think an online approach solely supported by advertising is flawed.
 Broadcasters ''went out and did deals to put content on broadband without a whole lot of thought about the long-term financial model,'' said Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief executive of Time Warner and a principal supporter of the new subscriber-only Web video plan. ''If people aren't subscribing to the programming, you probably shouldn't put it online, because then half of the financial support goes away. That isn't good. It hasn't been good for the newspaper industry.''
 Some content owners, harboring their own new doubts about the profitability of online video, seem open to the subscription idea. Jeff Gaspin, the president of the Universal Television Group, which oversees NBC Universal's cable channels like USA and CNBC, said the company wanted to figure out a model that ''gets our content out there when and where people want it, but that also preserves that dual revenue stream and that relationship we have with our distributors.''
 He said NBC Universal was testing technology to identify Time Warner Cable subscribers online, and is also talking to Comcast, Cox and other providers about similar moves.
 But an executive at another cable network, who did not want to be named because the discussions are at a preliminary stage, said that the cable operators were not guaranteeing the networks any additional revenue for the right to distribute their content online. He said his network was hesitant to sign on for that reason. 
 Another trend that terrifies television networks and distributors is the prospect that Web video will move from the PC to the television itself. Products intended to bridge that gap, like the Apple TV set-top box and the Roku digital video player, are now used by only a small percentage of people but could become more popular. 
 One company getting squeezed by these pressures is Boxee, a New York start-up whose software for PCs can be used to bring shows from Web sites like Hulu to the television set. Last month, Hulu's backers, Fox and NBC, pressured Hulu to remove its content from the Boxee service because it threatened their efforts to get the cable operators to pay them what the industry calls retransmission fees. 
 Boxee has been trying to restore Hulu to its service, with both technical workarounds and through negotiations with the networks.
 ''Transitioning online opens up great opportunities for networks, but it also runs the risk of cannibalizing their existing business,'' said Avner Ronen, Boxee's founder. ''Right now I think they want to tread the online waters carefully, to experiment online while it's still a small business, and to innovate there, but not to rock the boat too hard at the risk of tipping it over. That's the conflict they have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In one room, Steve Glynn's family is watching TV on a laptop and a television. Almost every network show is free online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 In Milwaukee, HBO is experimenting with letting its paid subscribers watch shows online. (pg.B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%); NEWS CORP (81%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%); APPLE INC (56%); COMCAST CORP (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); TWC (NYSE) (57%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (56%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (50%); CCV (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1224 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Video Game Makers Challenged by the Next Wave of Media

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Booming video game sales are masking a serious concern for game makers: their economic model is in peril. Game companies are taking in more money, but, in many cases, not profits.
 The market has expanded greatly, with more women and older gamers playing. People are playing on consoles, computers, cellphones and hand-held gadgets. But a proliferation of free or low-cost games on the Web and for phones limits how much the major game publishers can raise prices. It also diverts attention from the game consoles, like the PlayStation 3 from Sony and the Xbox 360 from Microsoft.
 ''The model as it exists is dying,'' said Mike McGarvey, former chief executive of Eidos and now an executive with OnLive, which delivers games from the Internet. He said consumers were looking at games for consoles and saying, ''This is too expensive and there are too many choices.'' 
 Industry sales grew 19 percent in 2008 compared with a year earlier, the kind of sales growth that would thrill many industries during a deep recession. And yet the list of money-losing companies includes top names in gaming: Electronic Arts, Take-Two Interactive and THQ. Dozens of smaller game studios selling games for download and the mom-and-pop companies offering ad-supported ''casual games'' on the Web are still trying to figure out how to turn their millions of players into profitable customers.
 On Monday at the Electronic Arts headquarters in Redwood Shores, Calif., executives and managers will gather to discuss how the company can adapt more quickly and effectively to the emerging media.
 Jeff Brown, a spokesman for Electronic Arts, the biggest game maker, said the company was trying to stay ahead of a curve. It took in $4 billion in revenue last year, nothing to sneeze at, he pointed out, but the company sees potential trouble ahead if it fails to adapt. ''The smart companies are mindful of what's on the other side of this thing,'' he said.
 The problem is a marked shift in the economics surrounding the PlayStation and Xbox consoles. Makers cannot charge enough or sell enough games to cover the cost of producing most titles. As with the Hollywood movie studios, video game makers have to hope for a blockbuster.
 The cost of making a game for the previous generation of machines was perhaps $10 million, not including marketing. The cost of a game for the latest consoles is well more than twice that -- $25 million is typical and it can be much more, industry executives said. 
 Games sell for about $60, but the sales of most games do not come close to covering development costs or the additional costs of licensing fees to the console makers, marketing and the merchants' cut. 
 The industry might be in better shape if it could sell a million copies of each title. But the majority of games, analysts said, sell no more than 150,000 copies. 
 Reggie Fils-Aime, chief marketing officer for Nintendo of America, said publishers of games for its Wii console needed to sell one million units of a game to turn a profit. He said that was a lower threshold than for the other consoles. Only 16 out of 486 games for Nintendo Wii game machines have sold more than one million units as of March 1, according to NPD, which tracks the sales of consumer products. (Nine of the best sellers are made by Nintendo.) 
 Mr. Fils-Aime said Nintendo recognized the economics were changing when it developed the Wii. He said the company deliberately did not add high-definition capability to the Wii so games would be cheaper to make. 
 ''Budgets are well outpacing the cost of games on shelves,'' said Shaun McCabe, production director for Insomniac Games, which makes the popular game Resistance 2. 
 Industry analysts said that if the user base of the PS3 and the Xbox 360 were larger, then more games would be sold, giving publishers more revenue to cover their costs. About 20 million PS3s and 28.5 million Xbox 360s have been sold. Nintendo has sold about 50 million Wiis worldwide. 
 But game companies say there is a bigger force at work: the proliferation of consumer choice in the game industry prevents them from raising prices on console games. Games for iPhones are considerably cheaper; indeed, many are free. Crash Bandicoot Nitro Kart 3D, a racing game that has been a longtime favorite on the iTunes App Store, costs $5.99. Zombieville USA, another top seller, is only $1.99. Games made for downloading onto the Xbox 360, PS3 or Wii cost $10.
 ''Video games used to be the type of entertainment that sucked dollars from TV, music and the box office,'' said Evan Wilson, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. ''Now, inside the video game industry, it's having its own internal distraction issues. There are lots of options.''
 Companies are adapting in different ways. To reduce the cost of production, some are laying off staff or hiring cheaper staff overseas in China or India.
 Some game companies, like Disney Interactive, are building games around familiar characters to make the games easier and less costly to market. 
 Another company, Gazillion, plans to experiment with subscriptions to games inside virtual worlds based on superheroes from Marvel Comics. The games will be part of a broader blitz that will include animated TV shows, free online games and other properties. Other companies are displaying in-game advertising or selling virtual goods to wring out more revenue.
 One site owned by Nickelodeon, AddictingGames.com, offers free, casual games for the teenage market and attracted 11 million users last month. Dave Williams, senior vice president for the Nickelodeon Kids and Family Games unit, said casual games and even the more graphically rich games were heading toward an ad-supported business model.
 ''We see this notion of games as a media rather than as a product that you sell,'' he said, comparing the model to TV. ''You consume media on television, you don't buy it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Game Developers Conference last week in San Francisco. Sales of video games are rising, but the developers' profits are not. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (92%); ONLIVE INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (55%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1225 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Snap Up Hummers, Seeing Them as Icons of Power

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Ali al-Hilli is a happy man. He has a wife and three kids, a prosperous business and -- this is the important part -- a Hummer in his driveway.
 In a country with at least 20,000 Humvees and a war-weary population, who would think there would be a market for the civilian version? 
 Mr. Hilli did. ''I just knew there'd be a huge demand for this in Baghdad,'' he said. Now Mr. Hilli and his brother Dhafir run a car dealership specializing in Hummers. It is called, in English, ''Al Sultan for Trading Cars.'' 
 An American diplomat declared that it was the biggest Hummer dealership outside of the United States, a fact that seemed too good to check. Unfortunately, Mr. Hilli has checked. ''It's the biggest one in Baghdad, though, that's for sure,'' he said.
 Never mind that General Motors, Hummer's struggling parent company, may scrap the brand or sell it to someone else.
 ''Iraqis love them because they're really a symbol of power,'' said Mr. Hilli, a chubby 37-year-old who could not stop chuckling. Nonetheless, he spoke with authority, since he was his own first customer. 
 Hummers in Baghdad are symbols of much more besides: increasing security, returning normality and a yearning for the trappings of sovereignty. Mr. Hilli allowed that there was something else, too, a little more indefinable, which in Arabic is ''hasad thukuri,'' and which in English will be translated later.
 The Hilli brothers first got their coals-to-Newcastle brainstorm a couple of years ago, during the height of the sectarian violence. ''Even if we imported these back then, no one would have dared to drive around in them,'' Ali al-Hilli said. 
 Insurgents were taking aim at anything that looked foreign, let alone an analogue of an American military vehicle. 
 Then the war started quieting down and, about a year ago, they found an online auction for repossessed nearly new cars in the United States. They put in the winning bid on a Humvee H3, which they air-freighted in through Dubai, followed by a second one. ''Everyone thought we were crazy,'' Mr. Hilli said. ''Or they thought we were Iraqi government officials,'' who can most easily afford such cars. 
 At first the Hummers sat on the lot and attracted little interest. ''We took such a risk, it's such an expensive car, and all our money was in it,'' said Dhafir al-Hilli, 38. So the brothers got in the cars and began driving around their Kadhimiya neighborhood, a largely Shiite area that had so often been a target of terrorists that it was walled off and relatively safe.
 ''It helped that in Kadhimiya we didn't have such a bad opinion of the Americans,'' Ali al-Hilli said. ''People often asked the soldiers to stop their Humvees so they could get their pictures in front of them.''
 Idling through the city's relentless traffic jams, the Hummers were their own advertising campaign. ''We couldn't go a block without people stopping us to ask, 'What is it?' '' Mr. Hilli said. ''We looked like astronauts from outer space.''
 Soon conditions improved enough to drive all over the city. Hummer H3s began rumbling off the lot, at 50 to 60 grand apiece, in dollars and all the money down, fully loaded. (No one wanted them any other way.) 
 Canary yellow and fire engine red proved the favorite colors.
 ''No one complains that they remind them of the American military,'' Mr. Hilli said. ''It's much more trouble driving around in a Samand.'' Made in Iran, the car is the surrogate object of many Iraqis' scorn for Iran itself.
 The Hillis said they had sold more than 20 H3s, about one every 10 days, even in the midst of plummeting oil prices and economic turmoil. Their biggest customers tend to be government officials. That is not necessarily a sign of corruption, since the new government has voted itself enormous pay raises.
 Iraqis are paying historically high prices for gasoline. At $1.40 a gallon, that would not break any American hearts, but not long ago it was 19 cents. The increase had no effect on sales of these notorious gas-guzzlers, though. ''If you can afford this car, you don't care how much gasoline costs,'' Mr. Hilli said.
 Iraqis love their cars. ''In Iraq, people judge you by your car, and you're not a man without one,'' he said. When it comes to Hummers, he added, they will nearly always be bigger than anyone else's vehicle. That is where ''hasad thukuri'' comes in; roughly translated, it means ''penis envy.''
 In prewar years, red-blooded Iraqis lusted after the Mercedes, especially the costly Ghost sedan, which only the best-heeled Baathists could afford. During the early war years, it was the nimble little BMW 3 Series, until that car got a bad rap as the insurgents' favorite getaway car. (At one time, black BMWs were actually banned from the roads.) ''Now Iraqis are obsessed with the Hummer,'' Dhafir al-Hilli said. 
 It beats being obsessed with, say, car bombs. Who knows, the Hillis may yet see the day when there are even more Hummers on the streets than Humvees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Canary yellow is one of the favorite colors for Hummers at Ali al-Hilli's dealership in Baghdad. ''Iraqis love them,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIME) (pg.A6)
 Ali al-Hilli driving his Hummer in Baghdad. He and his brother Dhafir run a car dealership specializing in the vehicles, the civilian counterparts of Humvees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (75%); AUCTIONS (74%); REPOSSESSION (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); TERRORISM (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1226 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: For State's Top Earners, Mixed Views On a Proposal to Raise Their Taxes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON and REBECCA WHITE; Joel Stonington contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A lot of people would probably love to have the headaches of someone who earns more than $500,000 a year. But those headaches grew over the weekend with the announcement in Albany of new tax brackets for the highest earners. While there were no tears spilling into Champagne flutes over brunch on Sunday, there were voices of frustration among those facing higher payments to the State of New York
 Jorge Colmenares, founder and owner of Miracol Energy, an investment firm in renewable energy, said that he earned more than $500,000 and that he was happy to do his part. But he wondered about the negative effects of higher taxes on consumers. 
 ''If you continue to take away from people in the form of taxes, it is restricting them more in spending,'' he said while shopping on Madison Avenue. ''On the one hand, I would agree: With the wealth that you can create, you should give back. But is the government using that money correctly? There's a lot of skepticism these days as to whether that's actually going to be the case.''
 Carmine A. Nicoletti, 51, of Great Neck, who owns a printing company in Queens, declined to state his income, but said that his household earned enough to fall into one of Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed tax brackets. 
 ''I'm O.K. with it,'' he said of paying more taxes, while at Via Quadronno restaurant on the Upper East Side. ''I'd rather pay my share if the economy is going to benefit. I mean, I don't like to pay taxes, but I don't mind if it helps my country. It shouldn't affect my family.'' 
 Julian N. Carter, 42, of the Upper East Side, said that he fell into the $500,000-and-higher tax bracket as a banker at Societe Generale and that he supported the new tax.
 ''I'm absolutely in favor of it,'' he said outside the restaurant Frederick's Madison on Madison Avenue. ''Listen, the reality is that someone has to pay the bill, and it has to come from taxes. You can't be selfish. My view is you have to redistribute.'' 
 As much as he earns, he said, he expects to cut back on expenses. ''My savings are going down and the expenses are still there, but we all have to downsize,'' he said. ''It's the elephant in the room. We're going to have to pay.''
 Opinions on the tax increase were divided in some households, such as that of Mr. Colmenares, 43, and his wife, Mariela, 41.
 She is for it. ''In this economy, people who are making more than $300,000 should pay more,'' she said as the couple shopped on Madison Avenue with their son, Andres, 6. ''The people that are fortunate enough to enjoy that higher standard of living should help more.'' 
 He said that while he was happy to do his part, he was leaning closer to being against. ''It's the quintessential dilemma: giving the money to the government or having the individuals use it to stimulate the economy themselves,'' he said. ''I think people should be able to use it themselves.'' 
 David Fandetta, 51, and John-Peter Hayden Jr., 68, would have agreed with Mr. Colmenares. The two sellers of rare books were shopping on Madison.
 ''We're trying to do our bit,'' Mr. Hayden said. ''You've got to go out and spend.''
 Mr. Fandetta said that their business was down as much as 20 to 30 percent, judging from their sales at the recent New York Arts of Pacific Asia Show. 
 ''It's the wrong time to raise taxes,'' he said. ''Everybody's trying to squeeze every nickel out of every rock. They need my 8 percent? Start laying off some bureaucrats. We have a bloated bureaucracy, and that's bloated with a capital B.''
 A tax increase could make matters much worse, he added. 
 ''That might make the difference,'' he said. ''It's closing a small business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mariela and Jorge Colmenares, with son Andres, differ on the new taxes. She backs the increase, but he is leaning against it.
 Carmine A. Nicoletti, left, who owns a printing company in Queens, said of paying more taxes: ''I'm O.K. with it.'' At right, John-Peter Hayden Jr. and David Fandetta, booksellers whose business is down, said it was the wrong time to raise taxes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (51%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1227 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Change the Parade Route? Can They Even Do That?

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
From Felix the Cat in 1927 to Bolt the dog in 2008, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade has adapted, over the years, to changing times and cartoon fashions. 
 But one thing has always been constant: the final stretch of the parade route, down Broadway from Columbus Circle to Herald Square, through crowds lining the Great White Way. 
 That tradition appears to be doomed. The main culprit is the plan, unveiled last month by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, to turn Broadway into a pedestrian-only zone around Times Square and Herald Square this spring. If you can't drive a car down Broadway, you can't drive a float down it either 
 And so the city has begun the process of figuring out where the cat might hang his hat in November. Crain's New York Business, in its most recent issue, reported that the city was considering shifting the parade to Avenue of the Americas. 
 Scott Gastel, a spokesman for the Department of Transportation, confirmed on Sunday that ''a working group has been assembled on this matter, and recommendations will be made.'' 
 The president of the Times Square Alliance, Tim Tompkins, said the Avenue of the Americas was not the only route option. City officials told him, he said, that they were looking at the possibility of shifting parts of the parade to Seventh Avenue north of Times Square, which would keep the floats closer to Broadway. 
 Neither the Department of Transportation nor the mayor's office would say when a decision would be made or provide further details about the options.
 For Macy's, a move off Broadway would be a major one.
 ''Broadway is part of the parade's history,'' said Elina Kazan, a spokeswoman for Macy's. ''It would certainly be a bittersweet moment for us if we were to leave. But we're working with the city, the D.O.T. and other city agencies to come up with alternatives that will make it the best parade experience for everyone.''
 Even without the addition of a pedestrian mall, Broadway has come to seem less and less an ideal parade route in recent years because, despite its name, it is not particularly broad. After the ropes tethered to an M & M balloon caught on a streetlight at 43rd Street in 2005 and injured two people, an investigation found that the clearance there was only 39 feet wide, when Macy's own guidelines called for 62 feet of space. (After the accident, Macy's said it had submitted a plan to the city to ''recontour the parade route,'' but no action was taken.)
 No such strictures exist on Avenue of the Americas: it is six lanes and at least 60 feet wide. 
 The news was greeted with some consternation in Times Square. Mr. Tompkins of the business alliance there said that moving the route would be ''an economic hit to the neighborhood,'' particularly to hotels along the viewing route, like the Marriott Marquis, at Broadway and 46th Street, where rooms with views sell out months in advance.
 In addition, he said, a shift would be ''a missed opportunity for the city to put its best face forward. After all, what do you want to show the world, the razzle-dazzle of Times Square or sleepy old Sixth Avenue?'' 
 He said the pedestrian mall could be set up in such a way that impediments to traffic could be moved for the parade.
 At Embassy Electronics, on Seventh Avenue near 47th Street, a few feet from Broadway, Mustapha ben Khallouk, a salesman, shook his head at the prospect of a Thanksgiving without a parade passing by.
 ''It's not good for Times Square,'' he said. ''Thanksgiving is one of the busiest days of the year for us -- people stay all day. They already have most of the parades on Fifth and Sixth, so we should at least get to keep this one.''
 The parade, the only major march that uses Broadway, originally started at 145th Street in 1924. It now steps off at 77th Street and Central Park West, heads along the park to Columbus Circle, then moves down Broadway to Macy's at 34th Street. 
 A few parade fans in Times Square on Sunday seemed unfazed by the prospect of a new route.
 ''If it's too small where it is now, by all means move it,'' said Ellie Serian, 25, of Orlando, Fla., who works at Disney World as a character and marched in the Macy's parade in 2001 with her high school color guard. 
 Of the local businesspeople who oppose the move, she said: ''They're not paying for the parade, are they? It's not their decision.''
 Over on Avenue of the Americas, at the new Magnolia Cupcake shop at 49th Street, where the view behind the counter takes in a good 15 feet of prime viewing space, the manager, Byron St. Cyr, said it would be ''exciting and crazy'' to have the parade pass by his store. 
 But his opinion was not the prevalent one.
 The avenue in the 40s is home to a notably unflashy march of corporate headquarters, banks, hair salons and other businesses that are unlikely to pick up too much parade-day trade.
 ''It doesn't bother us,'' said David Epstein, a salesman at Diamond City, at 47th and Avenue of the Americas, on the edge of the diamond district. ''We wouldn't be open on Thanksgiving anyway.''
 One block south at Easy Sprit shoes, the manager, Catidia Santiago, said that if past parades were any indication, the Thanksgiving throngs would not be in the market for a pair of pumps. 
 ''Every time there's a parade, we hope to have more business, but it always turns out to be slow,'' she said. ''Everyone just comes in here to use the bathroom, or they walk in and walk out.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about plans to reroute the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade to avoid Broadway referred imprecisely to the parade. It is the only major annual march to use Broadway -- not the only major march to do so. The error also appeared in a picture caption in some editions. (Parades to honor special events or visiting dignitaries have been held occasionally on Lower Broadway for many years.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Thanksgiving Day Parade is the only one in Manhattan to use Broadway. But under a plan to limit parts of the thoroughfare to pedestrians and cyclists, the route would have to change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: MACY'S THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE ROUTE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MAYORS (71%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1228 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Villains and Victims in Zimbabwe

 BODY:
Zimbabwe's new power-sharing government isn't ideal. Robert Mugabe remains president, despite losing last year's election. His loyalists remain in charge of the army, the Justice Ministry and other key posts that allow them to arrest and intimidate opponents. 
 Yet respected and competent former opposition leaders now run important ministries like health, education and finance. These reformers ran on the promise of improving the lives of Zimbabwe's long-suffering people. 
 The United States and Europe can help them deliver on those promises by providing increased financial resources. Zimbabwe's own economy has been bled dry by decades of Mr. Mugabe's disastrous policies, which have destroyed its currency, crippled its agriculture, mining and industry, and blighted millions of lives through preventable famine and epidemics. 
 Any new resources must be packaged in ways that ensure they are used for their intended purposes. And without continued sanctions targeted against Mr. Mugabe and his thuggish collaborators, even the limited progress so far achieved could easily be reversed. The challenge is to keep the pressure on the relatively few villains committed to keeping Mr. Mugabe in power, while providing some relief to the millions of victims of his catastrophic misrule. 
 To this end, the United States and the European Union have rightly restricted travel and frozen assets of Mr. Mugabe and his top collaborators. They have banned trade with businesses and banks used to finance the repressive apparatus. These targeted steps mainly discomfit a narrow, privileged elite.
 Washington has also suspended direct development aid to Zimbabwe's government but provides considerable humanitarian aid, channeled through private and international agencies, to pay for emergency shipments of food, medicine and clean water. Over the last 18 months, while Zimbabwe has been ravaged by a cholera epidemic, American aid has been more than $250 million. 
 That conduit should now be expanded to cover such life-sustaining items as seed, fertilizer and water and sewage systems to help Zimbabwe stand on its own feet. 
 At least for now, American aid should continue to be channeled indirectly, not to Zimbabwe's government. But increased humanitarian aid could free up more of Zimbabwe's own funds to pay living wages to teachers, doctors and other essential civil servants. If Zimbabwe's government acts on that opportunity, it might then be time to reopen discussion on resuming direct aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMINE (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); LIVING WAGE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); EPIDEMICS (68%); TROPICAL DISEASES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1229 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Applications to Elite Colleges Are Up This Year, Despite the Economic Downturn

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG and TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The recession appears to have had little impact on the number of applications received by many of the nation's most competitive colleges, or on an applicant's overall chances of being admitted to them.
 Representatives of Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard, Stanford and Yale, among other highly selective institutions, said in telephone and e-mail exchanges in recent days that applications for the class of 2013 had jumped sharply when compared with the previous year's class. As a result, the percentage of applicants who will receive good news from the eight colleges of the Ivy League (and a few other top schools that send out decision letters this week) is expected to hover at, or near, record lows. 
 William R. Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions and financial aid at Harvard since 1986, said that the 29,112 applications Harvard received this year represented an all-time high, and a six-percentage-point increase from last year. He said the percentage of applicants admitted would be 7 percent, down from 8 percent a year ago. Dartmouth said that the 18,130 applications it received was the most in its history, too, and that the 12 percent admitted would be its lowest. 
 Stanford said that the 30,350 applications it received represented a 20 percent increase, and that while it estimated a 7.5-percent admission rate, which would be its lowest, it declined to specify a final figure until later in the week.
 Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Princeton and Yale declined to release their final admission rates in advance of sending out most of their decision letters via e-mail at 5 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday. But Brown said it had received 21 percent more applications over all, compared with a year ago; Yale was up 14 percent; Columbia was up 13 percent; and Cornell was up 3 percent. Princeton said that as of January, it had tallied a 2 percent increase in applications but anticipated the pool had gotten even larger since then. At the University of Pennsylvania, the number of applications increased by 4 -- to 22,939, from 22,935. 
 Applications to highly selective colleges, however, were not up universally. Many of the best-known liberal arts colleges in that group had fewer applications this year. Williams College in western Massachusetts said that applications were down 20 percent this year, with 6,024 having applied to the class of 2013, compared with 7,552 a year ago. Williams's acceptance rate, in turn, is expected to be about 20 percent, higher than in recent years. 
 The reason for the change was not immediately clear, though applicants outside New England who are concerned about their finances would have to take into account that Williams is not close to a major city or airport -- and thus could be expensive to get in and out of.
 Similarly, Middlebury College in Vermont, which is also relatively remote, had a nearly 12 percent drop in applications. Amherst, in Massachusetts, said that applications were down about 1 percent and that its admissions rate would increase slightly, to 16 percent, in part because it is trying to increase its first-year class by about 25 students.
 Amherst had a nearly 10 percent increase in early-decision applications. It enrolls some of its first-year class through that program, and, like most schools surveyed, it said it had not lost a single student from that program due to changes in family finances since the fall, when such applications are made.
 ''Given the economy, it's very surprising to me,'' said Tom Parker, dean of admissions and financial aid. ''And when I told the board, they found it hard to believe, too.''
 In a sign of how hard it is to draw broad conclusions about an admissions season that has been set against a stark economic backdrop, just over half of the nearly 350 institutions that accept the Common Application, a shared online admission form, received more applications this year than last; just under half received fewer. Bryn Mawr and Wellesley were among those that were up slightly, while overall applications to Grinnell and Pomona were down.
 Among the best-known public universities, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and the University of Virginia in Charlottesville all recorded gains in applications -- a sign, surely, of some applicants' desire to stay closer to home and pay less than they might at an elite private college. 
 Of course, applying to college is one thing; being able to afford to go is another. Harvard, which like many colleges raised its financial aid budget this year, said that between this week and May 1, when applicants' decisions are due, it was bracing for many to make impassioned appeals of their financial aid offers, whether by phone or e-mail or in person. In response, Mr. Fitzsimmons said the Harvard financial aid office would be open every day in April, with expanded hours.
 ''We're going to listen,'' he said. ''We don't have a policy of matching other schools' awards. But we're going to listen to what a family thinks its unusual circumstances might be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1230 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: European Newspapers Find Creative Ways to Thrive in the Internet Age

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As the death toll in the American newspaper industry mounted this month, the German publisher Axel Springer, which owns Bild, the biggest newspaper in Europe, reported the highest profit in its 62-year history.
 At Springer's headquarters in Berlin, there has been no desperate talk of how to survive the recession and the digital revolution. Instead, Mathias Dopfner, Springer's chief executive, said he was looking for opportunities to expand, scouting around for acquisitions in Germany, Eastern Europe and maybe -- in what would be a first for the company -- the United States.
 ''I don't believe in the end of journalism,'' Mr. Dopfner said. ''On the contrary, I think the crisis can have a positive impact. The number of players will diminish, but the strong players may be stabler after the crisis.'' 
 In much of the world, American newspapers are seen as journalism's gold standard. But the American newspaper's business model appears to be broken. While much of Europe faces many of the same problems, a few newspaper publishers have found innovative ways not only to survive, but thrive in the face of the recession and the Internet. 
 Few European publishers performed as well as Axel Springer last year, and even it has warned that 2009 will be much harder as recession takes its toll. In some European countries, newspapers are in worse shape than in the United States. In France, several papers are kept alive by public subsidies. In the ultracompetitive British market, national papers struggle to make money and local newspapers are disappearing at an accelerating rate.
 But there are signs of journalistic life in Europe. Circulation is falling more slowly than in the United States. Most papers have been less affected by the recession than their American counterparts because they rely on readers more than on advertisers, who tend to be more fickle.
 Though no one has found a magic bullet, some European publishers have found ways to meet the challenges. At Schibsted, an Oslo-based publisher, online activities -- including newspapers, classified advertising sites and other pursuits -- deliver about a quarter of the company's revenue and the vast majority of its profit.
 The star performer online is VG Nett, a Web site loosely affiliated with Verdens Gang, a tabloid newspaper. VG Nett has a profit margin of more than 30 percent and rivals Google as the most popular Web site in Norway.
 VG Nett, like most newspaper Web sites, generates most of its revenue from advertising, but is starting to raise money from users. About 150,000 people pay up to 599 crowns, or nearly $90, a year for a weight-loss club. VG Nett recently started charging up to 780 crowns a year for live streams of soccer matches. And a social network connected with VG Nett charges users to upgrade their profiles. Access to news, however, remains free.
 A business that has lost more than a quarter of its global sales over the last decade might not seem like the best example to follow. But alongside the wreckage left by digital piracy, new business models are emerging in the music industry -- with Europe in the vanguard.
 Few Europeans willing to pay for music directly, through services like iTunes, so the industry is instead bundling music costs into a broadband subscription, like basic cable channels do in the United States.
 The Washington-based Project for Excellence in Journalism, skeptical of applying micropayments to newspapers, has suggested providing access to newspaper Web sites for a fee paid at the Internet service provider level. For such models to succeed, newspapers would have to work together. 
 A group of newspapers in the French-speaking part of Belgium have shown the possibilities and the limitations of cooperating when faced with Google, which some see as a common enemy.
 Two years ago, under the banner of their trade organization, Copiepresse, the papers won a ruling in a Belgian court requiring Google to remove their content from its Google News service, which summarizes newspaper articles and provides links to their Web sites. The Belgian papers argued that Google News had violated their copyrights; an appeal is pending.
 When Google wanted to expand Google News to Denmark about two years ago, lawyers for Danish publishers wrote to the company, telling them they could not do so without permission. 
 This has not helped newspapers earn money online, but Margaret Boribon, secretary general of Copiepresse, said, ''the main issue for us is not having giants killing us.'' 
 Axel Springer generates 14 percent of its revenue online, more than most American newspapers, even though the markets in which it operates -- primarily Germany and Eastern Europe -- are less digitally developed than the United States.
 One reason, Mr. Dopfner said, is that Axel Springer has dared to compete with itself. Instead of trying to protect existing publications, it acquired or created new ones, some of which distribute the same content to different audiences.
 At one newsroom in Berlin, for example, journalists produce content for six publications: the national newspaper Die Welt, its Sunday edition and a tabloid version aimed at younger readers; a local paper called Berliner Morgenpost, and two Web sites.
 Though advertising has slumped in Germany, Axel Springer has been able to offset the shortfall by raising the price of publications like Bild, which sells more than three million copies. Now Axel Springer is looking for ''undervalued assets'' to buy.
 Mr. Dopfner said the company would even have a look in the United States ''if a meaningful position arises in a significant market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); WEB SITES (65%); EXECUTIVES (56%); SOCCER (50%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AXEL SPRINGER AG (94%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: SPR (FRA) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); OSLO, NORWAY (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORWAY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1231 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: An Insurer's Family Drama

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
DECADES after the end of the radio and television serial ''One Man's Family,'' Liberty Mutual will offer its own version in a campaign tailored to contemporary times.
 The campaign, which began on Sunday, is centered on the members of a fictional family, the Marlowes, as they tackle issues ranging from coping with the recession to disciplining errant children. The elaborate campaign is being created by Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $50 million to $60 million, is the next version of an effort introduced in 2006 by the Liberty Mutual Group under the title ''The Responsibility Project,'' which has sought to encourage discussions on subjects related to personal responsibility. 
 Or as Henry, the youngest member of Marlowe family, puts it in a television commercial: ''I think most people just want to do the right thing. They just don't know what it is.''
 The commercials, directed by the film director Harmony Korine, present fraught moments in the lives of the Marlowes, who in addition to Henry include a father, mother, teenage daughter, college-age son, grandfather and uncle.
 In one spot, the father struggles to tell the rest of the family over dinner that he may be laid off.
 ''Things at work are changing a little bit,'' he says hesitantly. ''As of right now, we kind of have to tighten the belt.'' He ends his remarks by reassuring them, ''We will get through this.''
 In another commercial, the father and mother are looking at the screen of their daughter's computer. ''Let's talk to her,'' the mother says in a concerned tone.
 A third spot is devoted to an intense conversation between the mother and the older son after he is caught drag racing. Others are about issues like coping with aging parents and misuse of cellphone cameras.
 The commercials -- 10 are planned initially -- will also be available for viewing on a Web site (responsibilityproject.com), which is home to content that includes short films, a blog and stories submitted by visitors. The site bears the Liberty Mutual logo and the campaign's theme: ''Responsibility. What's your policy?''
 The family commercials replace spots composed of vignettes of strangers helping each other in everyday ways, like picking up a toy dropped by a baby in a passing carriage or pulling a pedestrian out of the path of an approaching car.
 The spots had a ''pay it forward'' premise, in that each would begin with Stranger A helping Stranger B, B helping C and so on until the end, when the last person being helped turned out to be Stranger A -- suggesting to viewers that responsibility was a round-the-clock roundelay.
 The previous ads ''were looking at responsibility from more of a macro level,'' said Paul G. Alexander, senior vice president and manager for communication services at Liberty Mutual in Boston.
 By comparison, the new commercials use the Marlowe family ''to look at responsibility from more of a micro level,'' he added.
 Despite the Marlowes' being portrayed by actors, ''we're trying to depict a real family, not a stylized one,'' Mr. Alexander said, ''and the real issues families are facing.''
 Like the previous ads, the new ones suggest ''there's no right or wrong answer'' to the thorny challenges confronting the country and its citizens, he added.
 In making responsibility the centerpiece of the campaign, ''the key is not to be preachy or judgmental,'' Mr. Alexander said, because ''if we go that route, people will distance themselves from us.''
 Make-believe families in campaigns that unfold episodically have long been popular on Madison Avenue. The device, which echoes long-running series like ''One Man's Family,'' ''General Hospital'' and ''Dallas,'' is meant to soften a sales pitch by looking like programming rather than advertising.
 Among the brands that have assembled ensemble casts to relay familial tales are Bell Atlantic, 4C Foods and Ragu pasta sauce. A campaign for Verizon Communications in 2004 featured three imaginary families.
 ''It's an interesting way of presenting,'' said Mike Sheehan, chief executive at Hill, Holliday. ''If you create a serial family, you let them tell the story.''
 ''And there's an authenticity to it,'' he added, citing the commercial with the father's discussion about tough times at work: ''When you're telling your family bad news, part of it is you don't quite believe it. Part of it is you want to break it in waves.''
 Mr. Sheehan said his favorite commercial from the initial batch was the one in which the parents reluctantly check their daughter's computer.
 ''I'm a parent, and I'm a big advocate of personal privacy,'' he said, adding: ''What's the right thing to do? I don't know.''
 Like the Marlowes, Liberty Mutual has been affected by the recession. Last year, the company made a deal with NBC to become the presenting or lead sponsor of a pair of programs on the subject of personal responsibility. One was to be a contemporary drama, based on the biblical story of David, called ''Kings.''
 But when ''Kings'' made its debut on March 15, Liberty Mutual was only one of many sponsors, and its role in developing the series went unheralded.
 Because of the economy, the company ''took a step back,'' Mr. Alexander said, and ''we did not pursue the 'Kings' project all the way to lead sponsorship.''
 ''We're still working with NBC on new ideas and possible partnerships,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A campaign by Hill, Holliday for Liberty Mutual centers on a family's challenges -- for instance, how parents should deal with their drag-racing son -- to raise questions about responsibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); FILM (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (86%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (71%); HILL HOLLIDAY (57%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (86%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (86%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1232 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: The Darfur the West Isn't Recognizing as It Moralizes About the Region

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
For many who survey an African landscape strewn with political wreckage, nowadays merely to raise the subject of European colonialism, which formally ended across most of the continent five decades ago, is to ring alarm bells of excuse making.
 Clearly, the African disaster most in view today is Sudan, or more specifically the dirty war that has raged since 2003 in that country's western region, Darfur.
 Rare among African conflicts, it exerts a strong claim on our conscience. By instructive contrast, more than five million people have died as a result of war in Congo since 1998, the rough equivalent at its height of a 2004 Asian tsunami striking every six months, without stirring our diplomats to urgency or generating much civic response. 
 Mahmood Mamdani, a Ugandan-born scholar at Columbia University and the author of ''When Victims Become Killers: Colonialism, Nativism, and Genocide in Rwanda,'' is one of the most penetrating analysts of African affairs. In ''Saviors and Survivors: Darfur, Politics, and the War on Terror,'' he has written a learned book that reintroduces history into the discussion of the Darfur crisis and questions the logic and even the good faith of those who seek to place it at the pinnacle of Africa's recent troubles. It is a brief, he writes, ''against those who substitute moral certainty for knowledge, and who feel virtuous even when acting on the basis of total ignorance.''
 Mr. Mamdani does not dismiss a record of atrocities in Darfur, where 300,000 have been killed and 2.5 million been made refugees, yet he opposes the label of genocide as a subjective judgment wielded for political reasons against a Sudanese government that is out of favor because of its history of Islamism and its suspected involvement in terror.
 At his most provocative Mr. Mamdani questions the distinction between what is often labeled counterinsurgency and genocide, saying the former, even when it kills more people, is deemed ''normal violence'' while the latter is considered ''amoral, evil,'' and typically it is the West that does the labeling.
 Although he uses the United States war in Iraq as an example, with the International Criminal Court recently issuing an arrest warrant for Sudan's leader, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, Mr. Mamdani's most compelling example is the treatment of a crisis in neighboring Uganda.
 In Uganda, long one of Washington's closest African friends, Mr. Mamdani traces the history of ethnically targeted ''civilian massacres and other atrocities'' against the brutal insurgency known as the Lord's Resistance Army. In 1996, under President Yoweri Museveni, a second phase of that war began ''with a new policy designed to intern practically the entire rural population of the three Acholi districts in northern Uganda,'' Mr. Mamdani writes. ''It took a government-directed campaign of murder, intimidation, bombing and burning of whole villages to drive the rural population into I.D.P. (internally displaced persons) camps.''
 In 2005 Olara Otunnu, a former Ugandan ambassador to the United Nations, denounced the government's tactics, saying, ''An entire society is being systematically destroyed -- physically, culturally, socially and economically -- in full view of the international community.''
 But as elsewhere in Africa, Mr. Mamdani says, the International Criminal Court has brought a case against only the enemy of Washington's friend, the Lord's Resistance Army, remaining mute about large-scale atrocities that may have been committed by the Ugandan government. In this pattern the author sees the hand of politics more than any real attachment to justice.
 Many argue that what makes Darfur different from other African crises is race, with the conflict there pitting Arabs against people often called ''black Africans,'' but here again Mr. Mamdani takes on conventional wisdom. ''At no point,'' he states flatly, ''has this been a war between 'Africans' and 'Arabs.' ''
 Much foreign commentary about Sudan speaks of its Arabs as settlers, with the inference that they are somehow less African than people assumed to be of pure black stock. If whites in Kenya and Zimbabwe, not to mention South Africa, vociferously maintain their African-ness, what then to make of the Arab presence in Sudan, whose slow penetration and widespread intermarriage, Mr. Mamdani writes, ''commenced in the early decades of Islam'' and ''reached a climax'' from the 8th to the 15th century, ''when the Arab tribes overran much of the country''?
 More interestingly, the author maintains that much of what we see today as a racial divide in Sudan has its roots in colonial history, when Britain ''broke up native society into different ethnicities, and 'tribalized' each ethnicity by bringing it under the absolute authority of one or more British-sanctioned 'native authorities,' '' balancing ''the whole by playing one off against the others.''
 Mr. Mamdani calls this British tactic of administratively reinforcing distinctions among colonial subjects ''re-identify and rule'' and says that it was copied by European powers across the continent, with deadly consequences -- as in Rwanda, where Belgium's intervention hardened distinctions between Hutu and Tutsi.
 In Sudan the result was to create a durable sense of land rights rooted in tribal identity that favored the sedentary at the expense of the nomad, or, in the crude shorthand of today, African and Arab.
 Other roots of the Darfur crisis lie in catastrophic desertification in the Sahel region, where the cold war left the area awash in cheap weapons at the very moment that pastoralists could no longer survive in their traditional homelands, obliging many to push southward into areas controlled by sedentary farmers.
 He also blames regional strife, the violent legacy of proxy warfare by France, Libya and the United States and, most recently, the global extension of the war on terror.
 This important book reveals much on all of these themes, yet still may be judged by some as not saying enough about recent violence in Darfur.
 Mr. Mamdani's constant refrain is that the virtuous indignation he thinks he detects in those who shout loudest about Darfur is no substitute for greater understanding, without which outsiders have little hope of achieving real good in Africa's shattered lands.
 SAVIORS AND SURVIVORS 
 Darfur, Politics, and the War on Terror 
 By Mahmood Mamdani 
 398 pages. Pantheon Books. $26.95. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Monday was about ''Saviors and Survivors: Darfur, Politics and the War on Terror,'' by Mahmood Mamdani, a professor of government at Columbia University. The review was written by Howard W. French, a former reporter for The New York Times who is now an associate professor at Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism and does not know the author. But had editors known of Mr. Mamdani's affiliation with Columbia at the time the review was assigned, the review would not have been assigned to a member of the Columbia faculty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELENA SEIBERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); GENOCIDE (88%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); TERRORISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); TSUNAMIS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); WRITERS (68%); ARREST WARRANTS (62%); ARRESTS (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (94%); UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

TITLE: Saviors and Survivors: Darfur, Politics, and the War on Terror (Book); Saviors and Survivors: Darfur, Politics, and the War on Terror (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1233 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: A White Block Where an Ad Ought to Be

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Zipping around the Nascar track at Bristol, Tenn., two weeks ago was a souped-up Chevy Impala. But unlike most Nascar competitors, whose hoods are covered with logos, this car's hood had a large white rectangle. 
 Was it a statement on commercialism? A modernist attempt at questioning advertising's efficacy?
 Well, no. The owner of the car, Kevin Buckler of the racing group TRG Motorsports, was desperately seeking a sponsor. 
 ''People have DuPont on the hood, or Snickers on the hood, or Pepsi,'' he said. ''And here's a blank hood, and not only is it a blank hood, but I'm running with nothing on it.''
 He was advertising his lack of an advertiser, in other words.
 ''When it goes around on TV, it's obviously getting the message out without being cheesy about it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Buckler says he recently received a sponsorship inquiry about the car, which is driven by David Gilliland, from a television production company in one of the few industries that is growing in this difficult economy: reality TV. STEPHANIE CLIFFORD 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The white block on the hood of Kevin Buckler's Nascar racer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAT PHOTOGRAPHIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NASCAR RACING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1234 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: In the Mist, Pioneers Witness a First Pitch

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
No matter what comes later -- say, in the last week of the season, that recent and ghastly Mets tradition -- there could only be one first game, when the gates open and the people enter.
 This was not opening day, when the games count. This was not even the first Mets exhibition, which is Friday against the Red Sox. But it was the first real game of baseball, St. John's against Georgetown, and the real star of the day was the new ballpark.
 It is handsome and functional and full of nooks and crannies to explore. The Wilpon family knew what it was doing. This is not the municipal dump that used to be next door. If anybody had dared to play ''There Used to Be a Ballpark,'' that Sinatra chestnut, I would have laughed out loud. 
 The new place opened on a misty Sunday in very early spring. As damp as the weather was, it was hard to extricate the hope of spring from the rush of a new baseball season from the curiosity about a new ballpark, where many things will happen, some of them joyous, some of them dreadful.
 Suspend for a day the rightful thumb-sucking about whether any of this largesse is good for the general population. This is, after all, a project that cost approximately $800 million, not including the extras tossed in by the city and the tax breaks and all that murky stuff. 
 Suspend for a day that the name of the field is currently Citi Field, named for a banking company that has pledged $400 million over 20 years in naming rights while pocketing a gigantic bailout from the government, that is to say, from us. While the economy and the future of Citigroup sort themselves out, a new ballpark is a different issue.
 Not having been on this site since the Florida Marlins put the Mets out of their considerable misery six months ago, I was eager to see the new place. Shea Stadium is gone, reduced to a pile of rubble. The venerable No. 7 elevated line has a covered promenade leading straight toward the ballpark. Traffic flows more freely. What's to miss?
 I took a stroll around the ballpark, past young trees, pleasant benches, formidable walls and doors -- not many opportunities for a kid from Corona, like Omar Minaya, to slip inside to watch a few innings after school, on his life's path to becoming general manager. 
 Behind closed gates was the Jackie Robinson Rotunda, built by the Wilpons in homage to the Italianate rotunda of Ebbets Field, where Brooklyn Dodgers fans used to meet. 
 Under other circumstances, this ballpark could have been named for Robinson, despite the specious argument that pops up that Robinson never played for the Mets. And who knows, the stadium may yet be named for Robinson. With any luck, heroes outlast banks. 
 In the endless video loop on two large screens in the rotunda, Robinson steals home in the 1955 World Series, and Yogi Berra hops up and down in dissension. When Yogi visits the rotunda sometime this season, he will surely hop up and down all over again. 
 Near the rotunda, John Booth, a teacher from Greenwich, Conn., inspected the commemorative bricks with inscriptions like ''Gets By Buckner'' and ''I Saw Todd Pratt's Walkoff 1999.'' Booth's group had bought a brick that said ''NY Mets = Life!'' This early spring day seemed to reaffirm that sentiment.
 Inside the gift shop on the ground floor, the air smells like money, from the cushy Gooden and Carter jerseys on sale. In the food court out behind right field, the air smells like sauerkraut. I bought a hot dog, and a pleasant concessions worker actually doled out a generous helping of sauerkraut at the condiment stand. How thoughtful.
 In the broad corridors, where one can watch the game while noshing, Jim West was telling family members how he played hooky from Junior High School 16 in adjacent Corona on April 17, 1964, for the first home game in the Mets' new park.
 ''It was a mess,'' West said. ''It was chaos.'' The bathrooms didn't work, and they never got any better in the 45 years of Shea. 
 Things mostly worked on this day of discovery. The clunky press elevator, where I must have spent a year of my life waiting, has been replaced by a smooth, modern machine. 
 Wearing a bright jacket that said Mets Construction Team was Mike Smith, a technology director for Hunt-Bovis, the company that built the new place. He was escorting his family to the game at the stadium he helped build. Smith's father, John, was an usher in the Polo Grounds and Shea Stadium, and when the new place opens for the Red Sox on Friday, he will be working at his third Mets ballpark.
 Amid all the new touches, there was a familiar face. John Franco marched out to deliver the first pitch, peeling off his blue Mets warm-up jacket to reveal a bright red jersey from St. John's, his alma mater. Franco promptly threw his pitch into the dirt, but the fans applauded him anyway. They were in a benign mood on this day of exploration, this day of hope.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mets were in Florida on Sunday afternoon, but Citi Field opened its gates for a baseball game between St. John's and Georgetown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
Sean Lamont of Georgetown waiting in the on-deck circle at Citi Field. Georgetown won the first baseball game at the new ballpark, 6-4, against St. John's.
Demond Cooke, above, snapping a picture in the stands. At left, fans pausing near the ballpark's rotunda to review commemorative bricks, which had inscriptions like ''Gets By Buckner'' and ''I Saw Todd Pratt's Walkoff 1999.''
 Fans streaming into the rotunda at Citi Field, an homage to the one at Ebbets Field. Highlight videos play on two large screens inside. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1235 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Bay Area's Main Daily At Impasse

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: San Francisco offers a cast of offbeat stars 

 BODY:
-- rockers, politicos, Internet moguls -- playing for an audience with more than its share of affluent, literate people, on a stage rich in history, eccentricity and natural beauty. It sounds like a journalist's dream, a great market for a news organization.
 Yet extinction threatens The San Francisco Chronicle, the leading local news source. The Hearst Corporation says the newspaper lost about $1 million a week last year, and it must either sell the paper, close it or lay off a large part of its already diminished staff.
 A plunge in advertising revenue has battered American newspapers, but red ink flowed from The Chronicle even in years when profit margins above 20 percent were the industry norm. Media analysts and current and former Hearst executives lay some blame on moves by the company and the previous owners, the de Young family -- particularly a damaging 35-year partnership with a smaller paper, The Examiner, whose effects are still felt years after it was dissolved.
 But fault also lies with the geography, demographics, competition and technology that all make the Bay Area perhaps the toughest newspaper market in the country. What is certain is that The Chronicle no longer has anything like the grip it once had on this region. From 2003 to 2008, the paper lost a third of its circulation, among the steepest declines in the industry. 
 Often dismissed as parochial, The Chronicle has not been a magnet for major awards -- it was too idiosyncratic for that -- but it has always paid serious attention to subjects that arouse local passions, like gay rights, the environment and arts. It is one of a handful of papers with an architecture critic, John King, a two-time Pulitzer Prize finalist whose predecessor, the late Alan Temko, won a Pulitzer in 1990.
 Like the city itself, The Chronicle cherishes whimsical touches, like a sports section that was printed on green paper -- and occasionally still is -- and front-page feature articles like a recent one about a local fish with strange eyeballs. The paper is best known for columnists with devoted followings, like Leah Garchik and Jon Carroll, whose work is often quirky, personal and resolutely local. The columnist Herb Caen, who died in 1997, was often called the voice of the city.
 ''The Chronicle reflected the unique culture of the place, which can be like a small town, mostly through its beloved columnists,'' said Robert Rosenthal, managing editor from 2002 to 2007. ''But I think it's been in backpedal mode for so long, the constant downsizing, that it has lost some of that.'' On any sunny weekend, the long brunch lines outside Dottie's True Blue Cafe in the Tenderloin district illustrate the printed paper's shrinking place in city life. People who, a few years ago, would have leafed through The Chronicle while waiting for tables are instead tapping on iPhones and laptops.
 ''People eat through their whole meals texting, e-mailing, where they used to read papers,'' said Kurt Abney, owner of Dottie's. ''At the end of the day, we used to have a huge pile of newspapers by the front door that people left behind, but now it's only a few.''
 Though most American newspapers are still profitable, the Internet has eroded circulation and advertising, and it cut first and deepest in the Bay Area, a leader in Internet use and home to sites like Craigslist. 
 The Chronicle's Web site, SFGate.com, draws an unusually large audience for a paper its size, three million to four million people monthly, according to Nielsen Online, but generates a fraction of the paper's revenue.
 But some challenges posed by the region long predate the Internet.
 The Bay Area has no real center of gravity, and San Francisco, at the tip of a peninsula, has no inner ring of suburbs. The city has only 760,000 of the region's more than four million residents. Nearby counties have far bigger populations, with their own economic bases and urban cores in places like San Jose and Oakland, and their own major newspapers. 
 ''The Bay Area has this extraordinary fragmentation,'' said Anthea Stratigos, chief executive of Outsell, a media research firm. ''It's a region of microclimates, and the person in Contra Costa County might not care about San Francisco City Hall.''
 The Chronicle (weekday circulation 339,000 last year) dominates in San Francisco, but beyond the city it trucks papers long distances to compete with The San Jose Mercury News (224,000) to the south, The Contra Costa Times (181,000) and The Oakland Tribune (92,000) to the east.
 ''Even in the best years, The Chronicle and The Examiner had one-third of the print revenue in the metropolitan market, unlike other major papers that, in their heyday, had 70 percent,'' said Steven B. Falk, who headed the San Francisco papers' joint operating agency in the late 1990s, and later was president and publisher of The Chronicle.
 A large part of the region's population migrated from elsewhere. In fact about 30 percent are foreign-born. 
 Alan Mutter became The Chronicle's managing editor in 1984, arriving from Chicago where, he said, ''millions of people are rooted to the area, and even in the suburbs their orientation is to the city.'' In the Bay Area, ''I was struck that it's not that way at all.''
 The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and The New York Times have combined circulation in the Bay Area of 183,000, almost as high as in the much larger Los Angeles area. ''Maybe they're looking for something better than the local papers, or just something that's not local,'' said Mr. Mutter, who left newspapers two decades ago and writes a blog on news media, Reflections of a Newsosaur.
 In past decades, the rival Examiner was sometimes seen as a more serious paper. But The Chronicle more closely mirrored the city's irreverent, politically liberal outlook.
 ''Back in the '50s, when we were tried for obscenity for publishing Allen Ginsberg's 'Howl,' The Chronicle did a very honest, sympathetic job of covering that,'' said Lawrence Ferlinghetti, the poet and co-founder of City Lights bookstore, a local landmark.
 In the 1970s, The Chronicle published Armistead Maupin's serial fiction that would become the ''Tales of the City'' novels, complete with gay characters, sex and profanity -- work that most newspapers would not have touched. 
 Mr. Maupin said, ''It was Herb Caen who taught me that hookers and hippies could be interesting characters, even heroic figures.''
 For 120 years, the Hearsts owned The Examiner, competing with The Chronicle. In 1965, when the papers had similar circulation, they struck a fateful joint operating agreement, sharing expenses and income. By the late 1990s, The Examiner's circulation was a quarter of The Chronicle's.
 In 2000, Hearst bought The Chronicle for $660 million, ending the joint operation. Under heavy pressure not to close The Examiner, Hearst turned it over to local owners, along with $66 million in subsidies. The Examiner faded, was sold again, and became a free paper.
 The Chronicle purchase coincided with the dot-com crash, followed by recession, so its revenue quickly sank. Hearst says The Chronicle has lost money every year since 2000.
 The Chronicle's newsroom, which had well over 500 people after the merger, could have fewer than 200 soon, after proposed layoffs. But executives concede that even with the cuts, it is not clear the paper can make a profit. ''I read it every day -- I'd hate to go without it,'' said Mr. Maupin, who left The Chronicle staff years ago. ''But by way of confession, I should add that I read online. I'mpart of the problem.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about financial difficulties facing The San Francisco Chronicle misstated the position once held there by Alan Mutter, a news media blogger who commented on the newspaper market in the Bay Area. He was an assistant managing editor, not the managing editor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In its hometown, the prominence of the printed version of The San Francisco Chronicle, known for its eccentric touches, has faded drastically. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1236 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: He's Mad, Apocalyptic, Tearful, And a Rising Star on Fox News

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER and BILL CARTER

 BODY:
''You are not alone,'' Glenn Beck likes to say. For the disaffected and aggrieved Americans of the Obama era, he could not have picked a better rallying cry. 
 Mr. Beck, an early-evening host on the Fox News Channel, is suddenly one of the most powerful media voices for the nation's conservative populist anger. Barely two months into his job at Fox, his program is a phenomenon: it typically draws about 2.3 million viewers, more than any other cable news host except Bill O'Reilly or Sean Hannity, despite being on at 5 p.m., a slow shift for cable news.
 With a mix of moral lessons, outrage and an apocalyptic view of the future, Mr. Beck, a longtime radio host who jumped to Fox from CNN's Headline News channel this year, is capturing the feelings of an alienated class of Americans.
 In an interview, Mr. Beck, who recently rewatched the 1976 film ''Network,'' said he identified with the character of Howard Beale, the unhinged TV news anchorman who declares on the air that he is ''mad as hell.'' 
 ''I think that's the way people feel,'' Mr. Beck said. ''That's the way I feel.'' In part because of Mr. Beck, Fox News -- long identified as the favored channel for conservatives and Republican leaders -- is enjoying a resurgence just two months into Mr. Obama's term. While always top-rated among cable news channels, Fox's ratings slipped during the long Democratic primary season last year. Now it is back on firm footing as the presumptive network of the opposition, with more than 1.2 million viewers watching at any given time, about twice as many as CNN or MSNBC. 
 While Mr. O'Reilly, the 8 p.m. host, paints himself as the outsider and Mr. Hannity, at 9, is more consistently ideological, Mr. Beck presents himself as a revivalist in a troubled land. 
 He preaches against politicians, hosts regular segments titled ''Constitution Under Attack'' and ''Economic Apocalypse,'' and occasionally breaks into tears.
 Michael Smerconish, a fellow syndicated talk show host, said that Mr. Beck ''has a gift for touching the passion nerve.'' 
 Tapping into fear about the future, Mr. Beck also lingers over doomsday situations; in a series called ''The War Room'' last month he talked to experts about the possibility of global financial panic and widespread outbreaks of violence. He challenged viewers to ''think the unthinkable'' so that they would be prepared in case of emergency.
 ''The truth is -- that you are the defender of liberty,'' he said. ''It's not the government. It's not an army or anybody else. It's you. This is your country.''
 And always, Mr. Beck's emotions are never far from the surface. ''That's good dramatic television,'' said Phil Griffin, the president of a Fox rival, MSNBC. ''That's who Glenn Beck is.''
 Mr. Beck says he believes every word he says on his TV show, and the radio show that he still hosts from 9 a.m. to noon each weekday. 
 He says that America is ''on the road to socialism'' and that ''God and religion are under attack in the U.S.'' He recently wondered aloud whether FEMA was setting up concentration camps, calling it a rumor that he was unable to debunk.
 At the same time, though, he says he is an entertainer. ''I'm a rodeo clown,'' he said in an interview, adding with a coy smile, ''It takes great skill.'' 
 And like a rodeo clown, Mr. Beck incites critics to attack by dancing in front of them. 
 ''There are absolutely historical precedents for what is happening with Beck,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, the director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism. ''There was a lot of radio evangelism during the Depression. People were frustrated and frightened. There are a lot of scary parallels now.'' 
 The conservative writer David Frum said Mr. Beck's success ''is a product of the collapse of conservatism as an organized political force, and the rise of conservatism as an alienated cultural sensibility.''
 ''It's a show for people who feel they belong to an embattled minority that is disenfranchised and cut off,'' he said.
 Joel Cheatwood, a senior vice president for development at Fox News, said he thought Mr. Beck's audience was a ''somewhat disenfranchised'' one. And, he added, ''it's a huge audience.''
 Mr. Beck has used phrases like ''we surround them,'' invoked while speaking vaguely about people who do not share his discomfort with the ''direction America is being taken in.'' 
 His comments have prompted several bloggers to speculate recently that the TV host may have been promoting an armed revolt. 
 Jeffrey Jones, a professor of media and politics at Old Dominion University and author of the book ''Entertaining Politics,'' said that Mr. Beck engages in ''inciting rhetoric. People hear their values are under attack and they get worried. It becomes an opportunity for them to stand up and do something.''
 Sitting in his corner office overlooking Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan, Mr. Beck rejected such charges but acknowledged that some people see sinister meanings in his commentaries. He said the people ''who are spreading the garbage that I'm stirring up a revolution haven't watched the show.'' 
 To answer his critics, Mr. Beck delivered a 17-minute commentary -- remarkably long by cable standards -- last Monday, answering criticisms, including one from Bill Maher that he was producing ''the same kind of talking'' that led Timothy McVeigh to blow up the Oklahoma City federal building in 1995. 
 ''Let me be clear,'' Mr. Beck said. ''If someone tries to harm another person in the name of the Constitution or the 'truth' behind 9/11 or anything else, they are just as dangerous and crazy as those we don't seem to recognize anymore, who kill in the name of Allah.''
 Born in Mount Vernon, Wash., in 1964, Mr. Beck has long been a performer. His roots are in comedy -- he spent years as a morning radio disc jockey -- and continues to perform comedy on stages across the country. 
 He got into the radio business to ''share my opinion in a humorous way,'' but the times ''are so serious now that I find myself sometimes being the guy I don't want to be -- the guy saying things that are sometimes pretty scary, but nobody else is willing to say them.'' 
 In 2006, he joined Headline News. There, his show was taped, denying viewers some of the what-will-he-say-next quality of his live program on Fox. 
 On March 12 Mr. Beck introduced the 9/12 Project, an initiative to reclaim the values and principles that he said were evident the day after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. On a special broadcast he asked: ''What ever happened to the country that loved the underdog and stood up for the little guy?'' 
 When it was suggested in an interview that he sometimes sounds like a preacher, he responded, ''No. You've never met a more flawed guy than me.''
 He added later: ''I say on the air all time, 'if you take what I say as gospel, you're an idiot.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glenn Beck, after two months, has 2.3 million viewers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Critics of Glenn Beck say he engages in incendiary rhetoric, but he says, ''I'm a rodeo clown.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL O'REILLY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1237 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Cable News Stokes Political Fever

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MSNBC ran a countdown clock in preparation for the big event last Tuesday night. CNN's run-up thrummed with portent, while a skeptical Fox News joined in the fervent speculation. 
 So what had the cable news stations in overdrive? A fairly routine, some might say boring, presidential news conference that did not make news. 
 That didn't stop squad after squad of panelists from weighing in on CNN -- tearing apart President Obama's mien and message down to the last blink and nod. A huge electronic display showed a ''word cloud'' -- words in a size that indicated their frequency of use. (Gee, I liked it better when John King used a digital maps to annotate and caress delegate totals.) And before it even started taking apart the content, Fox pointed out that the president had used -- gasp -- a teleprompter. 
 There is no question that the stakes are high in this presidency, and it's hardly an epiphany that in order to feed the 24/7 beast, cable news has to turn every little thing into a big event. But something else is at work here. Gorged on ratings from a historic election and still riding on leftover adrenaline, the cable networks have steadfastly remained in campaign mode. And the hyperbolic rhythms and requirements of a cable news world have never seemed less relevant to the story at hand. 
 ''On the cable networks, the intensity of conflict is what drives their shows, so everything is turned into a referendum,'' said John D. Podesta, president of the Center for American Progress, who served as chief of staff for President Clinton and the co-chairman of the transition team for Mr. Obama. ''It's worse than it was four years ago, and its worse than it was four years before that. It's on a new slope.''
 Roosevelt used a radio to broadcast hope in grim times. Mr. Obama has many more megaphones at his disposal, but they go both ways, a feedback loop that threatens to drown out the message. 
 It's not just a cable phenomenon: He's done interviews with most of the big media outlets, and almost everywhere else as well -- not only ESPN, ''60 Minutes'' on CBS and ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno'' on NBC but also Al Jazeera, Black Enterprise magazine, Telemundo and the Univision Radio host Eddie Sotelo, nicknamed Piolin. 
 Just in case you missed those, Mr. Obama went directly to the public on Thursday with a first-of-a-kind town hall meeting on the Web that was mostly a replay of the themes and data points from the Q. and A. with the professional journalists earlier in the week. 
 My children would say that Mr. Obama is on the verge of violation for oversharing. But he's also fulfilling the demand of a media apparatus that requires ceaseless updating and a daily verdict.
 After a recent round of big name renewals and contracts, the cable networks are loaded with red meat eaters and cud chewers. MSNBC is pretty much wall-to-wall politics with a roster to match -- the obsessive Chris Matthews, the freakishly partisan Keith Olbermann and the reliably left-leaning Rachel Maddow. 
 Fox, too, sees politics everywhere, with Bill O'Reilly on the hunt for new enemies every day and Glenn Beck's increasingly popular atavism. And CNN still has all manner of political boots on the ground -- panels stacked like cordwood even though the election is long past.
 In the old model of cable news, a neutral host would referee fire-breathers fighting it out from either side. But now the middle ground is eroding and everybody seems to be pushing something. 
 It's been a bit of role reversal, with politicians lecturing about the need for reasoned debates and the people formerly known as journalists demanding that lines be drawn and various people be held to account. 
 How politicized is the current cadre of broadcast blabbers? Two cable news hosts -- Mr. Matthews and Larry Kudlow of CNBC -- had public dalliances with running for office themselves, and their networks were fine with it.
 ''I have been participating in this aquarium for 20 years and there has been a definite shift,'' said Mark McKinnon, vice president for Public Strategies and a media adviser to both President George W. Bush and Senator John McCain. ''It is not just a permanent campaign by the administration, it's coming from the media. They clearly need that political crack to keep the ratings going.''
 Some of the viewers seem to have noticed that all of the election coverage is short an actual election. According to Nielsen, CNN, after hitting 3.28 million viewers on average during the week of the actual election, had drifted down below a million by mid-March. Fox News, 3.54 million the week of the election, is still above 2.1 million, while MSNBC, which hit 2.17 million, had 886,000 the week of March 16.
 One outfit that will probably do O.K. is the Obama administration. Regardless of how much traction his policies continue to lose, the president's approval ratings are still high. Mr. McKinnon suggested that he should continue to seize the moment and don the sandwich board whenever possible. 
 ''The success of his presidency will be determined by this first six months,'' he said. ''He doesn't have the luxury of not swinging with everything he has right now. The dynamics of the office mean he will be out of political capital soon enough.''
 But the business of governing, which involves incremental progress and endless negotiations, isn't a made-for-television event -- unless your only idea of television is C-SPAN. We're not waiting for late returns from California any more. Instead, we're getting unemployment figures from Michigan. While it's a far less exciting story, it's a far more important one.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Media Equation column on Monday, about the political emphasis of the cable news networks, misidentified the Arab-language news organization that broadcast the first television interview granted by President Obama. It was Al Arabiya, not Al Jazeera.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); WRITERS (69%); REFERENDUMS (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN PODESTA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1238 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: America the Tarnished

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Ten years ago the cover of Time magazine featured Robert Rubin, then Treasury secretary, Alan Greenspan, then chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Lawrence Summers, then deputy Treasury secretary. Time dubbed the three ''the committee to save the world,'' crediting them with leading the global financial system through a crisis that seemed terrifying at the time, although it was a small blip compared with what we're going through now.
 All the men on that cover were Americans, but nobody considered that odd. After all, in 1999 the United States was the unquestioned leader of the global crisis response. That leadership role was only partly based on American wealth; it also, to an important degree, reflected America's stature as a role model. The United States, everyone thought, was the country that knew how to do finance right. 
 How times have changed.
 Never mind the fact that two members of the committee have since succumbed to the magazine cover curse, the plunge in reputation that so often follows lionization in the media. (Mr. Summers, now the head of the National Economic Council, is still going strong.) Far more important is the extent to which our claims of financial soundness -- claims often invoked as we lectured other countries on the need to change their ways -- have proved hollow.
 Indeed, these days America is looking like the Bernie Madoff of economies: for many years it was held in respect, even awe, but it turns out to have been a fraud all along.
 It's painful now to read a lecture that Mr. Summers gave in early 2000, as the economic crisis of the 1990s was winding down. Discussing the causes of that crisis, Mr. Summers pointed to things that the crisis countries lacked -- and that, by implication, the United States had. These things included ''well-capitalized and supervised banks'' and reliable, transparent corporate accounting. Oh well.
 One of the analysts Mr. Summers cited in that lecture, by the way, was the economist Simon Johnson. In an article in the current issue of The Atlantic, Mr. Johnson, who served as the chief economist at the I.M.F. and is now a professor at M.I.T., declares that America's current difficulties are ''shockingly reminiscent'' of crises in places like Russia and Argentina -- including the key role played by crony capitalists. 
 In America as in the third world, he writes, ''elite business interests -- financiers, in the case of the U.S. -- played a central role in creating the crisis, making ever-larger gambles, with the implicit backing of the government, until the inevitable collapse. More alarming, they are now using their influence to prevent precisely the sorts of reforms that are needed, and fast, to pull the economy out of its nosedive.''
 It's no wonder, then, that an article in yesterday's Times about the response President Obama will receive in Europe was titled ''English-Speaking Capitalism on Trial.''
 Now, in fairness we have to say that the United States was far from being the only nation in which banks ran wild. Many European leaders are still in denial about the continent's economic and financial troubles, which arguably run as deep as our own -- although their nations' much stronger social safety nets mean that we're likely to experience far more human suffering. Still, it's a fact that the crisis has cost America much of its credibility, and with it much of its ability to lead.
 And that's a very bad thing.
 Like many other economists, I've been revisiting the Great Depression, looking for lessons that might help us avoid a repeat performance. And one thing that stands out from the history of the early 1930s is the extent to which the world's response to crisis was crippled by the inability of the world's major economies to cooperate. 
 The details of our current crisis are very different, but the need for cooperation is no less. President Obama got it exactly right last week when he declared: ''All of us are going to have to take steps in order to lift the economy. We don't want a situation in which some countries are making extraordinary efforts and other countries aren't.'' 
 Yet that is exactly the situation we're in. I don't believe that even America's economic efforts are adequate, but they're far more than most other wealthy countries have been willing to undertake. And by rights this week's G-20 summit ought to be an occasion for Mr. Obama to chide and chivy European leaders, in particular, into pulling their weight.
 But these days foreign leaders are in no mood to be lectured by American officials, even when -- as in this case -- the Americans are right. 
 The financial crisis has had many costs. And one of those costs is the damage to America's reputation, an asset we've lost just when we, and the world, need it most. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1239 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Rising Powers Challenge U.S. on Role in I.M.F. as Obama Moves to Fortify It

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Barely six months ago, the International Monetary Fund emerged from years of declining relevance, hurriedly cobbling together emergency loans for countries from Iceland to Pakistan, as the first wave of the financial crisis hit.
 Now, with world leaders gathering this week in London to plot a response to the gravest global economic downturn since World War II, the fund is becoming a chip in a contest to reshape the postcrisis landscape.
 The Obama administration has made fortifying the I.M.F. one of its primary goals for the meeting of the Group of 20, which includes leading industrial and developing countries and the European Union. But China, India and other rising powers seem to believe that the made-in-America crisis has curtailed the ability of the United States to set the agenda. They view the Western-dominated fund as a place to begin staking their claim to a greater voice in global economic affairs.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who once worked at the fund, has called for its financial resources to be expanded by $500 billion, effectively tripling its lending capacity to distressed countries and cementing its status as the lender of last resort for much of the world. 
 Japan and the European Union have each pledged $100 billion; the United States has signaled it will contribute a similar sum, though its money will take longer to arrive because of the need for Congressional approval. China, with its mammoth foreign exchange reserves, is the next obvious donor.
 Yet officials of China and other developing countries have served notice that they are reluctant to make comparable pledges without getting a greater say in the operations of the fund, which is run by a Frenchman, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, and is heavily influenced by the United States and Western Europe.
 A senior Chinese leader, Wang Qishan, said Friday that Beijing was willing to kick in some money, but he called for an overhaul of the way the fund is governed. China wants its quota -- which determines its financial contribution and voting power -- adjusted to reflect its economic weight better. 
 China's contribution, Mr. Wang said, should not be based on the size of its reserves but on its economic output per person, which is still modest. Some American officials now expect a pledge on the order of $50 billion from China. 
 ''Their arms may yet be twisted, but they simply do not want to pony up based on vague promises of governance reform,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of economics at Cornell University who has discussed the matter in recent days with Chinese and Indian officials.
 Given the inevitability that these countries will have a growing influence, the London summit meeting, which begins Thursday, is likely to be remembered ''as the last hurrah for the U.S. and Europe rescuing the world economy,'' said Simon Johnson, a professor at M.I.T. and a former chief economist of the fund.
 One reason the I.M.F. has emerged as such a popular cause is that the United States has been unable to rally countries behind its other major priority: economic stimulus. The European Union opposes further stimulus packages in 2010, arguing that its social safety net makes an increase in government spending unnecessary.
 European and American officials are also still divided, to a lesser degree, on how to rewrite international financial regulations. France and Germany are more receptive than the United States to giving regulators supranational authority to scrutinize global banks and other financial companies.
 ''The United States is desperately trying to assert leadership, as if it were 10 years ago, when the U.S. set the agenda,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economist at Harvard and another former chief economist of the fund.
 With more countries slipping into crisis by the week, there is general agreement that the fund needs additional resources. Since last year, the I.M.F. has made nearly $50 billion in loans to 13 countries. It is streamlining the process for making loans and loosening its strings, hoping to counter the resentment that built up against it during past crises because of its stringent demands.
 At a preparatory meeting two weeks ago, finance ministers of the Group of 20 agreed to ''very substantially'' increase financing, though the Europeans favored an extra $250 billion, not $500 billion.
 Whatever their reservations about financing, the Chinese have seized on the fund for another purpose: to tweak the United States. The governor of China's central bank, Zhou Xiaochuan, recently proposed that the American dollar be phased out as the world's default reserve currency. As a replacement, he suggested using special drawing rights, or S.D.R.'s, the synthetic currency created by the fund that is used for transactions between it and its 185 member countries.
 Few economists view that idea as a realistic one, at least for years to come. But the mere assertion that the dollar's pre-eminence is waning -- a theme picked up by Russian officials as well -- sends a message. 
 ''I don't think the Chinese or Russians really believe the S.D.R. is a viable currency,'' said Mr. Prasad, the Cornell economist. ''But they're laying down a very clear marker that they're going to be much more assertive about their role.''
 Mr. Geithner took the remarks seriously enough that he publicly reaffirmed the primacy of the dollar. 
 The United States will address China's status this week, when it announces details of a new high-level strategic and economic dialogue with Beijing, led by Mr. Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, according to a senior administration official, who spoke anonymously because the information was not yet public. The announcement will come after the first meeting between President Obama and the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, in London.
 The Obama administration has personal reasons to support the fund. Mr. Geithner was the I.M.F. director of policy planning from 2001 to 2003, after his first stint in the Treasury Department. He recruited Edwin M. Truman, another former Treasury official and a longtime advocate of the fund, as a temporary adviser to develop policies for the Group of 20 meeting.
 Just before leaving his academic position at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Mr. Truman proposed that the fund issue $250 billion in S.D.R.'s on a one-time basis to be allocated to all its members, as another way of increasing its resources. Western European countries, he said, could use their S.D.R.'s to lend money to their troubled Eastern neighbors. 
 That proposal is in a current draft of the statement to be issued at the Group of 20 meeting. If all the American proposals for the fund are adopted, its resources will approach $1 trillion -- a big number, even in these extraordinary times. 
 Yet for Mr. Johnson of M.I.T., it merely shows how difficult it is for the United States to marshal support for anything else.
 ''They can't agree on fiscal policy; they can't agree on regulations,'' he said. ''The only thing left is the I.M.F.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); INDIA (92%); ICELAND (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1240 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: State Leaders Outline a Deal For a Budget

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and DANNY HAKIM; William Neuman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Concluding the most secretive budget negotiations in recent memory, Gov. David A. Paterson and leaders of the Legislature outlined a $131.8 billion agreement on Sunday that would close the state's gaping deficit with billions of dollars in new taxes, financing from the federal stimulus and a substantial slowdown in the growth of health care spending.
 The final days of negotiations between Mr. Paterson, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Malcolm A. Smith have been conducted under a veil of secrecy so profound that even well-seasoned Albany cynics were taken aback. 
 And despite the enormous fiscal pressure the state faces, the budget contains $170 million in financing for pet projects -- an amount unchanged from last year -- suggesting that Albany's appetite for with what critics call pork-barrel spending appeared to be undiminished. Listed in the budget were grants to gun clubs, an upstate museum dedicated to bricks and brick-making, the Soccer Hall of Fame in Oneonta and an organization known as the Urban Yoga Foundation. 
 With the stimulus money and other federal grants, total spending would rise over the next year by $10.5 billion, or 8.7 percent, a major expansion, though the state's direct spending, which excludes federal funds, would rise by about $3.3 billion, higher than the rate of inflation. Over all, New York received $7.2 billion in federal stimulus money for the next fiscal year, some of it directly allocated to programs like unemployment insurance and food stamps.
 Factoring in the elimination of $1.5 billion in property tax rebates, New Yorkers will pay around $7 billion in new or increased taxes and fees next year -- the price, officials said, of closing a budget gap of more than $16 billion.
 Mr. Paterson said in a statement that he and the Legislature had made tough choices in a time of severe economic pain. 
 ''Over the last year, New York faced a historic fiscal crisis that tested our resolve,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''But by working together cooperatively with our partners in the Legislature, we made the tough choices necessary to address that challenge through shared sacrifice and responsible budgeting.'' 
 Many critics of the state's spending practices sharply disagreed.
 ''It is impossible to view this budget as a path to economic recovery,'' said Kenneth Adams, chief executive of the Business Council of New York State. ''Businesses and jobs will hasten their departure from the state, and how can you blame them? Albany treats them with disdain.''
 Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said the negotiating process this year, shrouded in even more secrecy than usual, ''stunk to high heaven.''
 Mr. Paterson said the budget would include $6.5 billion in recurring spending reductions, including major savings wrested from New York's large and politically potent health care sector. Officials claimed the plan would sharply cut future deficits, but they provided only preliminary details.
 Reflecting the changing balance of power in the Senate, which came into Democrat control last fall, the budget will close three prisons upstate, which were long protected by Senate Republicans as a source of good jobs in blighted regions. The budget would tap stimulus money to restore about $328 million in proposed cuts in municipal aid to New York City, a boon for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 While the so-called foundation aid sent to school districts will remain constant compared to last year, overall education aid will rise by about $1.2 billion, increased in large part by federal stimulus money. State officials will, however, stretch out new payments required by a 2006 court ruling, saving billions in the current and coming fiscal years.
 Though described by lawmakers -- and viewed by some special interests -- as an austerity budget, the proposal includes a welter of new taxes and fees. 
 A major part of the tax portion will come from a plan to temporarily raise taxes on New York's highest earners, starting with single filers who earn more than $200,000 and married and joint filers who make more than $300,000. New Yorkers will also pay new or increased fees to obtain a driver's license, operate a boat, hunt and fish, rent a car, and buy wine, beer and cigars. The deal would also raise $557 million in taxes on utilities.
 ''It's no wonder this budget was negotiated in complete secrecy, because it is a complete disaster that could push New York from recession to depression,'' said Senator Dean G. Skelos, the Republican minority leader, who, like Assembly Republicans, was almost entirely frozen out of the negotiations.
 Mr. Paterson and legislative leaders are still wrestling with a rescue plan for the financially troubled Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which voted on Wednesday to raise fares and cut service. Officials in Albany held out hope that an agreement could come as early as Monday. 
 Mr. Silver was able to achieve several of his major goals. Beyond the income tax increase -- which Assembly Democrats have long sought -- the budget would restore a cost-of-living increase to the supplemental Social Security income checks and move to June a planned increase in the basic welfare grant.
 ''We went into this budget saying over and over again that the sacrifices will be shared, that the wealthiest New Yorkers would be asked to pay more, that we wouldn't decimate education and health care to balance the budget,'' Mr. Silver said.
 The budget deal would also eliminate proposed cuts to tuition assistance programs at state schools and $185 million in cuts from special-education programs. The deal would overhaul Medicaid reimbursement rates and tilt spending away from expensive inpatient treatment and toward less expensive preventative care, which officials say will save hundreds of millions of dollars a year. Overall, budget officials said, Mr. Paterson won $2.3 billion out of the 3.5 billion in health care cuts he had sought. 
 But many of Mr. Paterson's original budget proposals were swept aside. He had long resisted a tax on the wealthy as counterproductive, but relented to one of Mr. Silver's top priorities. While Mr. Paterson had already abandoned many of his highest profile taxes, including levies on music downloads and nondiet sodas, the final budget was composed of a significantly steeper proportion of taxes, and fewer cuts, than he proposed.
 Senate Democrats were not able to convince Mr. Silver to agree to a replacement for the existing property tax rebate, an urgent concern of Democrats from suburban and upstate districts. But the income tax will expire in three years, as Mr. Smith wanted. 
 ''For New Yorkers across the state, we have created a budget that confronts the dire economic problems responsibly and positions us to achieve the long-term economic growth we need to get our state back on track,'' Mr. Smith said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson with State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); YOGA (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SOCCER (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1241 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words

 BODY:
THE AUTO BAILOUT As part of a broad agreement with the Obama administration to funnel more aid to Detroit, the head of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, resigned on Sunday, people close to the decision said. 
 Over the years, Rick Wagoner faced many challenges to his position atop General Motors, but it was ultimately the president who persuaded him to step aside. [B1.]
 AT HOME ON FOXGlenn Beck, an early evening host on the Fox News Channel, mixes moral lessons, outrage and an almost apocalyptic view of the country, and his show has become wildly popular. [A1.]
 TV ON THE WEB The television industry has made a big push onto the Web, but many in the industry are now questioning whether giving away shows is a sustainable model. [B1.]
 CHRONICLE'S TROUBLES The San Francisco Bay Area is perhaps the toughest newspaper market in the country, and the leading local news source, The San Francisco Chronicle, is threatened with extinction. [B1.]
 COMICS PRICES RISE In January, Marvel Entertainment added $1 to the price of some of its top-selling comics, to $3.99. DC Comics will follow suit in June, but will add pages. [B10.]
 OVERDRIVE ON CABLE NEWS Gorged on ratings from a historic election and still riding on leftover adrenaline, the cable networks have steadfastly remained in campaign mode. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 EASIER D.I.Y. PUBLISHING With a new Web service called MagCloud, Hewlett-Packard hopes to make it easier and cheaper to publish a magazine, with the goal of becoming vanity publishing's equivalent of YouTube. [B1.]
 ADS WANTED The Nascar owner and driver Kevin Buckler has had two races this season with a blank spot on the hood of his car, where ads should go. [B4.]
 BOXEE AND MORE The Net video service Boxee has a following; Twitter is closely watched for a revenue model; when Priceline cut its fees, use surged. Bits. [B9.]
 VIDEO GAMES' EVOLUTION Video games for the Web and smartphones are far cheaper to produce than the titles for the major consoles, whose makers must hope for blockbusters to turn a profit. [B3.]
 PRIVACY VS. INTERNET British courts have recently been trying to preserve litigants' privacy rights even in the face of an onslaught of information on the Internet. To some, this may be a final, futile effort. Link by Link: Noam Cohen. [B3.]
 BANKER OUSTED AT UBS The UBS banker formerly in charge of secret offshore accounts for wealthy Americans has been forced out of his job by the Swiss bank, which is under a growing federal investigation for tax fraud. [B3.]
 SUCCESS FOR EUROPEAN PAPERS In Europe, a few newspaper publishers have found innovative ways not only to survive, but thrive in the face of the recession and the Internet. [B4.]
 MUSIC ON MTV In an experiment that harks back to its origins, MTV will use 3 to 9 a.m. Monday through Thursday to show music videos, news, interviews and performances. [B4.]
 IN ADS, TROUBLED TIMES Liberty Mutual has commissioned a series of spots about a family facing contemporary problems and trying to be responsible. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B6.]
 SKYPE ON IPHONE Skype, the Internet calling service that has more than 400 million users, on Tuesday will release its free software for the iPhone and iPod Touch and, later, for various BlackBerry phones. [B9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (65%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (65%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (64%); NASCAR RACING (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); TAX FRAUD (60%); TAX LAW (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); PUBLISHING (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1242 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Much attention will be paid to jobs this week, including the ADP national employment report for March (Wednesday) and unemployment for March (Friday). 
 Other reports will include the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for January, the Chicago purchasing managers' index for March and the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for March (Tuesday); construction spending for February, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for March and pending home sales for February (Wednesday); factory orders for February (Thursday); and the I.S.M.'s service index for March (Friday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Lennar (Tuesday); and CarMax, Monsanto, Research in Motion and Rite Aid (Thursday).
 DEADLINE FOR DETROIT Tuesday is the deadline for General Motors and Chrysler to submit reports to the Treasury telling how they will cut costs and reduce debt. On Wednesday, the automakers release their United States sales for March.
 GLOBAL SUMMIT Leaders of the Group of 20 industrialized nations begin meetings in London (Wednesday evening). President Obama is scheduled to meet privately with President Hu Jintao of China and President Dmitri Medvedev, left, of Russia, among others.
 SENTENCING IN TAX CASE Two former KPMG executives, Robert Pfaff and John Larson, and Raymond J. Ruble, a former partner at the Brown & Wood law firm, are to be sentenced in a tax fraud case (Wednesday).
 BERNANKE ON CREDIT MARKETS The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, gives the closing keynote address at the Richmond Fed's third annual credit markets symposium in Charlotte, N.C. (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); SENTENCING (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (65%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (58%); MONSANTO CO (56%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%); CARMAX INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (54%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (91%); MON (NYSE) (56%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%); KMX (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (91%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (56%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (64%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (50%); JOHN LARSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1243 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Courting Disaster in South Carolina

 BODY:
Now that Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina has polished his credentials with the Republican right by recklessly rejecting $700 million in federal education stimulus money, we keep hoping he will change his mind and put the needs of his recession-ravaged state ahead of his political ambitions. 
 It will be up to more responsible political leaders to act if Mr. Sanford sticks by his disastrous choice, which would drive an already depressed state economy deeper into a hole and place even more South Carolinians at risk of losing their homes. 
 In the State Legislature, it was encouraging to see influential Republicans' distancing themselves from what State Senator Hugh Leatherman, the Finance Committee chairman, rightly describes as an irresponsible policy. In a letter sent to Mr. Sanford last week, Mr. Leatherman pleaded with him to change his mind, writing that rejecting the funds would ''create absolute chaos in governmental agencies that perform core missions for the people, and will hurt tens of thousands of South Carolina families at a time when uncertainty and fear over the economy already pervade almost every household.''
 The federal stimulus money is meant to shield schools from layoffs and reignite a national reform effort that still has a long way to go in places like South Carolina. Without the federal money, state lawmakers say, tuition at state-supported universities could increase dramatically and thousands of teachers could be laid off. 
 With South Carolina's unemployment rate already one of the highest in the nation, state lawmakers seem poised to invoke a provision of the federal stimulus law that allows them to override the governor's decision. They worry, however, that a legal challenge might tie up the issue in the courts beyond the beginning of the state's next fiscal year.
 It would be best, therefore, for Mr. Sanford to find a face-saving way to reverse himself. If he does not, voters should remember that their governor placed politics ahead of schoolchildren and the schools that are struggling to save them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1244 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Reviewing Criminal Justice

 BODY:
America's criminal justice system needs repair. Prisons are overcrowded, sentencing policies are uneven and often unfair, ex-convicts are poorly integrated into society, and the growing problem of gang violence has not received the attention it deserves. For these and other reasons, a bill introduced last week by Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, should be given high priority on the Congressional calendar. 
 The bill, which has strong bipartisan support, would establish a national commission to review the system from top to bottom. It is long overdue, and should be up and running as soon as possible.
 The United States has the highest reported incarceration rate in the world. More than 1 in 100 adults are now behind bars, for the first time in history. The incarceration rate has been rising faster than the crime rate, driven by harsh sentencing policies like ''three strikes and you're out,'' which impose long sentences that are often out of proportion to the seriousness of the offense. 
 Keeping people in prison who do not need to be there is not only unjust but also enormously expensive, which makes the problem a priority right now. Hard-pressed states and localities that reduce prison costs will have more money to help the unemployed, avert layoffs of teachers and police officers, and keep hospitals operating. In the last two decades, according to a Pew Charitable Trusts report, state corrections spending soared 127 percent, while spending on higher education increased only 21 percent.
 Meanwhile, as governments waste money putting the wrong people behind bars, gang activity has been escalating, accounting for as much as 80 percent of the crime in some parts of the country. 
 The commission would be made up of recognized criminal justice experts, and charged with examining a range of policies that have emerged haphazardly across the country and recommending reforms. In addition to obvious problems like sentencing, the commission would bring much-needed scrutiny to issues like the special obstacles faced by the mentally ill in the system, as well as the shameful problem of prison violence.
 Prison management and inmate treatment need special attention now that the Prison Litigation Reform Act has drastically scaled back prisoners' ability to vindicate their rights in court. Indeed, the commission should consider recommending that the law be modified or repealed. 
 Mr. Webb has enlisted the support of not only the Senate's top-ranking Democrats, including the majority leader, Harry Reid, but also influential Republicans like Arlen Specter, the ranking minority member on the Judiciary Committee, and Lindsey Graham, the ranking member of the crime and drugs subcommittee.
 There is no companion bill in the House, and one needs to be written. Judging by the bipartisan support in the Senate, a national consensus has emerged that the criminal justice system is broken.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GANGS (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); HOSPITALS (50%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (56%); HARRY REID (56%); JIM WEBB (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1245 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Obama Heads Back to Europe, Challenges in Tow

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
This time, no one will accuse Barack Obama of acting like Paris Hilton.
 Last year, as a candidate, Mr. Obama traveled to Europe by choice. He profited from well-choreographed visits with allied leaders that depicted him to American voters as a plausible commander in chief. But the cheering throngs that greeted him also handed his Republican opponent in the presidential campaign, Senator John McCain of Arizona, an opening to paint him as a celebrity-politician.
 Mr. Obama returns to Europe this week as president, against a backdrop of crisis. He has no alternative but to try coaxing partners in the Group of 20 industrial and emerging market nations to help stimulate the global economy and to assure them he is shoring up an American financial system that shoulders substantial blame for the damage. 
 Add the challenge of promoting a new strategy for the war in Afghanistan, and political strategists say there is no danger that Americans will confuse this trip with an escape from Mr. Obama's principal responsibilities.
 Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster who advised Mr. McCain's campaign, said focus groups among voters reveal one common conclusion: that the fortunes of the United States and the rest of the world were inextricably linked. ''There's not a single person who doesn't understand that we live in a global economy,'' Mr. McInturff said. ''It's a stretch to say he's taking his eye off the ball.''
 Shifting Impressions
 Familiarity with the international dimensions of the presidency has diminished the novelty and rewards that presidential trips abroad carried a generation ago. So has the end of the cold war, which drained the drama from encounters between American and Russian leaders. 
 Forty years ago, Richard M. Nixon traveled to Europe a month into his presidency, even though he carried little substantive agenda. Ceremonial stops in Berlin, Bonn, Brussels, London, Paris and Rome accomplished a top objective: raising his domestic standing.
 On his return, Nixon's job approval in a Gallup poll rose five percentage points, to 65 percent. In ''Nixon and Kissinger,'' the historian Robert Dallek quotes subsequent memorandums from Patrick J. Buchanan, Nixon's communications aide, and Henry A. Kissinger, his national security adviser, that hailed the dividends of portraying Nixon as, in Mr. Buchanan's words, ''a man of stature and wisdom.''
 Some new chief executives find that easier to pull off than others. Nixon, after all, had spent eight years as Dwight D. Eisenhower's vice president.
 As governor of Arkansas in 1992, Bill Clinton ripped President George Bush for paying too much attention to international affairs while the American economy struggled. A year later, as president, Mr. Clinton encountered a tart skepticism in Tokyo from leaders from the Group of Seven industrial countries.
 ''Clinton was the new kid on the block, and most of the other seven gave fairly patronizing lectures on why the U.S. needed to get its economic house in order,'' recalled Mike McCurry, then the State Department spokesman and later Mr. Clinton's White House press secretary. ''We were just hoping to get out of there alive.''
 Measuring Success
 Mr. Obama will face similar skepticism. Some foreign leaders, along with ordinary Americans, blame today's predicament largely on Wall Street excesses. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil signaled as much last week when he criticized the ''irrational behavior'' of ''white, blue-eyed'' bankers.
 Yet Mr. Obama's status as the first black president may deflect some of that criticism. It will also place him at the center of the international spotlight.
 ''What Obama has that Clinton did not is the delicious elements of biography that make him a walking public diplomacy program for America,'' Mr. McCurry said. ''The other leaders will have to contend with the enormous interest in this new, young, popular president.''
 Strategists in both parties say Americans, too, remain interested in watching Mr. Obama on the world stage. But the immense exposure the president and his daunting policy agenda have already received in his two months in office make the trip unlikely to substantially affect his level of public approval, which continues to hover around 60 percent. 
 ''Coverage of G-20 meetings does not provide the pyrotechnics that, say, the A.I.G. bonuses produced,'' said Jan van Lohuizen, a pollster for President George W. Bush. ''Since that blowup did not seem to affect his ratings,'' the trip this week is not likely to do so, either.
 Thus the trip's success will be measured over a longer horizon -- in elements of cooperation or conflict on the economy and Afghanistan whose consequences will become apparent only over time.
 ''This is not about theatrics, it's not about optics, it's not about politics,'' said David Axelrod, one of Mr. Obama's senior advisers. ''The world has a lot of problems right now. It's much more than a political event.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama took his presidential campaign to Berlin in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS)
President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, in Tokyo in 1993. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIASA MAYAMA/REUTERS)
 President Richard M. Nixon visiting Brussels in June 1974. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES TASNADI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); HISTORY (73%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); PARIS HILTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (64%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (73%); JAPAN (64%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1246 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Merkel Is Ready to Greet, And Then Resist, Obama

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, an avowed friend of the United States and the leader of the European Union's biggest economy, is diplomatic about the coming visit by President Obama. But she is clear that she is not about to give ground on new stimulus spending, stressing the need to maintain fiscal discipline even as she professes to want to work closely with the new American president. 
 Speaking in her modern concrete-and-glass Chancellery building last week, she underscored the points of drama that may well delineate the three summit meetings during Mr. Obama's first trans-Atlantic trip since he was elected. 
 ''International policy is, for all the friendship and commonality, always also about representing the interests of one's own country,'' Mrs. Merkel said in an interview with The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune. 
 At each summit meeting over the next week, Mr. Obama will find Mrs. Merkel, who first met him on his campaign trip in Europe last summer, across the table. 
 During the hourlong interview, Mrs. Merkel made clear that she was not wavering in her response to the economic crisis, by loosening the German checkbook or encouraging the European Central Bank to follow the Federal Reserve in pumping money into the system. She also said she expected Mr. Obama to keep his word to gradually rein in imbalances that would cause American indebtedness to grow sharply as a result of his domestic stimulus plans.
 Suggesting that the United States and Germany are not as far apart as some have intimated, Mrs. Merkel made plain that Mr. Obama may engender the foreign good will his predecessor, George W. Bush, largely lost, but nonetheless confront disagreements. 
 ''Hopefully,'' she said with diplomatic care, ''he leaves Europe in the awareness that he has friends and partners here, that we depend on each other, that we Europeans certainly have our particular experiences and also bring other accents to bear, but that these are not insurmountable obstacles.'' 
 Germany, as Mr. Bush learned when former Chancellor Gerhard Schroder vocally opposed the invasion of Iraq, can be either the building block or the stumbling block of international support. 
 For a new president in difficult times who may miss the simplicity of campaigning, Mr. Obama might be well served to think of Mrs. Merkel as the swing state of European leaders. 
 ''On an international level, we must all recognize that after the crisis we need to return again to solid financial policies,'' Mrs. Merkel said. ''Otherwise, we run the risk of already preparing the next crisis.'' 
 Mrs. Merkel, 54, a Protestant minister's daughter from the former East Germany, is neither a sparkling orator nor a flashy personality, but her sober steadiness seems to fit a crisis-humbled era. At a time of high-wire statesmanship, when the public keeps reimagining what constitutes the worst-case scenario, Mrs. Merkel projects the image of a steady leader.
 Yet she finds herself at the helm of the world's largest exporter of goods at a moment when world trade is collapsing. She is in the homestretch of her first term, facing re-election in less than six months by an electorate wary of the government's trying to spend its way out of trouble, not to mention the war in Afghanistan that Mr. Obama has inherited and is pressing with more troops and resources. 
 Germans view Russia far more favorably than Americans do, and Russia is also, for the foreseeable future, an indispensable supplier of the natural gas that heats German homes. 
 Where long lines of unemployed people are the indelible image from the Great Depression in the United States, it is the wheelbarrows of worthless currency during the hyperinflation of the 1920s that preoccupies Germans. Mrs. Merkel has exerted discreet but stubborn leadership in Europe to prevent the kind of overspending that could lead to inflationary pressure on the euro. 
 It is not, she pointed out, simply a philosophical difference. Borrow and spend today, repay down the road, is a particularly difficult proposition for a country with a shrinking population, she said. 
 ''Over the next decade we will undergo a massive demographic change, and, therefore, borrowing is a greater burden for the future than in a country with a much more continuously growing population, as in the United States of America,'' Mrs. Merkel said. 
 The implicit promise of Mr. Obama's campaign swing through the Continent was that he could get a better deal from allies than Mr. Bush ever did. Yet the adoring throngs that greeted him in Berlin last year on his summer campaign idyll are not indicative of what he will hear in negotiations. 
 ''Merkel is very smart,'' said George Friedman, chief executive of Stratfor, a geopolitical risk analysis firm. ''Unlike the other Europeans, who thought the problem was that George Bush was a cowboy, she understood the problem was not George Bush but with the divergence between U.S. and German geopolitical interests.'' He added that he feared the cheering crowds may have left Mr. Obama underestimating the differences. 
 If he is not careful, Mr. Friedman warned, Mr. Obama could end up giving Germany what it wants, like increasing International Monetary Fund contributions to bail out German neighbors in Eastern Europe, while getting nothing in return on stimulus spending or Afghanistan. It would hardly be a propitious beginning for a president with enough problems to deal with at home. 
 For all the domestic pressures, Mrs. Merkel has always been dedicated to the strong relationship that sprang up between the United States and Germany. She stressed during the interview, ''It is in the interest of Germany that America plays a strong role in the world and emerges from the crisis stronger.'' 
 Mrs. Merkel called the arrival of the new president in Europe, alongside France's decision to return to NATO military structures, a moment when the trans-Atlantic alliance could again become a focal point for political as well as military discussions. 
 ''I firmly believe that the crisis has made it clear that no country can solve its problems on its own, and we, at the beginning of the 21st century, must have the will to enhance international cooperation to a new qualitative level,'' Mrs. Merkel said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, in Berlin. She will meet with President Obama several times this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICE WEISS/OSTKREUZ, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EURO (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



1247 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Foundation Giving in '08 Defied Huge Asset Decline

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The nation's foundations lost nearly $150 billion in assets last year, or almost as much as they have given away over the last four years, a new study has found.
The study, by the Foundation Center, a chief authority on American philanthropy, determined that foundation giving for the year nonetheless held steady at an estimated $45.6 billion, falling by just 1 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis.
Still, without the $2.8 billion given away by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the nation's largest, the decline would have been almost 3 percent. Moreover, the center cautioned that because the steep loss of asset value happened so late in 2008, giving in the current year was likely to drop much more. 
''The destruction of assets is a staggering number, especially when you translate it into the work that gets done because of foundation grant-making,'' said Bradford K. Smith, president of the Foundation Center. ''Foundation growth seemed like an unstoppable train for the last decade, but the brakes have been hit.''
In separate research, a survey by the center early last year found that about 29 percent of foundations expected to reduce giving in 2008. But in a survey this January, almost half the respondents said they had reduced their giving. And foundation leaders said bigger cuts loomed this year and perhaps next.
The Nina Mason Pulliam Charitable Trust, for instance, plans to make $14.3 million in grants this year, compared with $15.7 million last year.
''What's of greater concern is what happens in 2010, when we could be down to a distribution budget of around $11 million,'' said Harriet M. Ivey, chief executive of the trust, which makes grants to organizations in the Indianapolis and Phoenix areas.
The trust's assets fell 24.7 percent in 2008 and have tumbled millions more since then. It has suspended gifts underwriting capital projects like buildings, freeing up $2 million to devote to emergency needs, and in June its trustees will consider whether to continue a scholarship program that has supported 326 students at community colleges and universities over the last decade.
The Foundation Center's study showed that for the first time, giving by community foundations exceeded that of corporate foundations, where giving held steady in 2008 but is certain to decline sharply this year.
Giving by community foundations, which grant money directly and via giving accounts directed by donors, increased an inflation-adjusted 2.7 percent, to $4.6 billion, compared with corporate gifts of $4.4 billion. (Independent foundations accounted for a vast majority of all foundation giving, at $33 billion.)
The California Community Foundation and its donors, for example, gave away $201 million last year, an increase of 4 percent over 2007. The foundation itself gave away $23 million, or about the same as in the previous year, thanks in part to a major bequest it received in late 2006.
''I keep saying knock on wood, but it looks like we are going to meet and may even exceed our goal of raising money for this fiscal year,'' which ends on June 30, said Antonia Hernandez, the chief executive.
The foundation has maintained its giving by freezing staff levels, cutting travel and using about $1 million from a reserve fund, Ms. Hernandez said.
She said the foundation's investment committee had been meeting roughly every month to readjust its portfolio, which stands at about $1 billion after a $250 million loss last year.
The Foundation Center estimated that foundation assets fell an average of 21.9 percent, but many foundations are reporting much steeper declines. Assets of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, for example, dropped almost 30 percent, said Chris DeCardy, a vice president there.
In response, Packard has reduced its grants budget for the year to $275 million, from more than $310 million it had planned to spend. Still, Packard's payout rate will exceed 7 percent of assets this year, well above the legally required 5 percent.
''If there's a story here, it's that it feels to me like institutions are hanging on by their fingernails but will have a much harder time next year,'' Mr. DeCardy said. ''It's a tricky time right now.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Intense Pressure On Philanthropy: A study of 75,000 grant-making foundations found that assets declined while giving held steady in 2008. But giving is expected to fall sharply in 2009.
FOUNDATION ASSETS: inflation-adjusted
FOUNDATION GIVING: inflation-adjusted
 EXPECTED CHANGE IN GIVING, 2009 (Source: Foundation Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: FOUNDATION CENTER (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (59%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1248 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Paying in Full As the Ticket Into Colleges

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
In the bid for a fat envelope this year, it may help, more than usual, to have a fat wallet.
Facing fallen endowments and needier students, many colleges are looking more favorably on wealthier applicants as they make their admissions decisions this year.
Institutions that have pledged to admit students regardless of need are finding ways to increase the number of those who pay the full cost in ways that allow the colleges to maintain the claim of being need-blind -- taking more students from the transfer or waiting lists, for instance, or admitting more foreign students who pay full tuition.
Private colleges that acknowledge taking financial status into account say they are even more aware of that factor this year.
''If you are a student of means or ability, or both, there has never been a better year,'' said Robert A. Sevier, an enrollment consultant to colleges. 
The trend does not mean colleges are cutting their financial aid budgets. In fact, most have increased those budgets this year, protecting that money even as they cut administrative salaries or require faculty members to take furloughs. But with more students applying for aid, and with those who need aid often needing more, institutions say they have to be mindful of how many scholarship students they can afford.
Colleges say they are not backing away from their desire to serve less affluent students; if anything, they say, taking more students who can afford to pay full price or close to it allows them to better afford those who cannot. But they say the inevitable result is that needier students will be shifted down to the less expensive and less prestigious institutions.
''There's going to be a cascading of talented lower-income kids down the social hierarchy of American higher education, and some cascading up of affluent kids,'' said Morton Owen Schapiro, the president of Williams College and an economist who studies higher education.
And colleges acknowledge that giving more seats to higher-paying students often means trading off their goals to be more socioeconomically diverse.
Some admissions officers and college advisers say richer parents are taking note of the climate, calculating that if they do not apply for aid, their children stand a better chance of getting in.
''They think their kids will have more options,'' said Diane Geller, a college counselor in private practice in Los Angeles and president of the Independent Educational Consultants Association, a nonprofit group that represents private academic counselors. ''And anecdotally, it would seem that that's the case.''
''I do think the colleges want to give aid where they can,'' Ms. Geller added. ''But we all know the economic realities.''
Only the wealthiest institutions traditionally have been need-blind, admitting students without regard to what they can pay. But the definition has often been fuzzy, and this year, it may be more so.
Bowdoin College announced plans to expand by 50 students over the next five years, which Scott Meiklejohn, the interim dean of admissions, said would allow it to accept more transfer and waiting-list students, whose applications are not considered on a need-blind basis.
Brandeis University, which is need-blind except for international, wait-listed and transfer students, accepted 10 percent more international students than usual this year, and Gil Villanueva, the dean of admissions, said he expected that the university would take more wait-listed and transfer students, as well.
Middlebury, which is need-blind and pledges to meet students' full financial needs, will require students on financial aid to contribute more of their work earnings. It has cut its financial aid budget for international students. It is not need-blind for those on the waiting list or for transfers, but the college has not yet determined how many of those students it will take.
''We consider being need-blind and meeting full demonstrated need one of our basic operating principles,'' said Patrick J. Norton, the college's treasurer. ''That is one of the last things that we would consider going away from.''
Those colleges that are need-aware typically admit part of the class without regard to ability to pay, but begin to consider it when the financial aid budget runs thin.
This year, many of these colleges say they are more inclined to accept students who do not apply for aid, or whom they judge to be less needy based on other factors, like ZIP code or parents' background.
''We're only human,'' said Steven Syverson, the dean of admissions and financial aid at Lawrence University in Wisconsin. ''They shine a little brighter.''
The advantage is not across the board; it goes to the students at the margins, the ones who would probably be ''maybes'' when the admissions committee considered applications. Those students are less likely to get in if they are financially needy and more likely to get in if they can afford to pay.
''This is not the majority of the class, or even the preponderance,'' said Rob Reddy, the director of financial aid at Oberlin College. ''But it's a factor.''
Even though there is more financial aid this year, more students are vying for it, so resources do not stretch as far.
''It's not unusual to see families earning $200,000 applying for aid, especially if they have a couple of kids going to college,'' said Rodney M. Oto, director of student financial services at Carleton College.
And some campuses are shifting more financial aid to merit aid, money that goes to highly qualified but not necessarily needy students; if tuition is $50,000 and the college offers an award of $7,000, it still gets $43,000, where a needier student might net the college nothing.
Some say it is time to reconsider the cachet that accompanies a boast of being need-blind.
''You can't say someone should be need-blind unless they have the resources to fund it,'' said Dr. Schapiro, at Williams. ''It sounds immoral to replace really talented low-income kids with less talented richer kids, but unless you're a Williams or an Amherst, the alternative is the quality of the education declines for everyone.''
At Carleton, which is need-aware, Mr. Oto said, ''I do think we'd all be better off if we were honest with kids that you may not get in because you need assistance, or you need too much assistance.''
Mr. Oto's fear -- shared by many other admissions officers -- is that being honest will scare off students who might, in fact, qualify for financial aid.
On the other end, Mr. Oto said: ''I suspect it may be a strategy for some folks. We do get the sense that people are getting advice that if you can pay, then you should shoot for the highly selective school.''
Many admissions counselors ascribe the increase in early decision applicants this year to wealthier students' seeking an advantage. Early decision requires students to attend if they are accepted, so those students give up the ability to negotiate financial aid, and tend to be wealthier.
''Those families in a position to afford the cost of attendance capitalized on that,'' said Mr. Villanueva, at Brandeis.
Many colleges, in turn, accepted more students early decision, as a way of securing students in December.
Some families have come back and tried to renegotiate aid after an offer of admission, but colleges caution that there is no guarantee: they have accommodated some requests, but told other students that their offers are firm, and in some cases, released students from early decision agreements rather than give a larger scholarship.
If endowments do not rebound, some colleges say that it will be harder to maintain commitments to the needier in coming years.
Tufts says it is reading applications on a need-blind basis this year, but may not be able to continue doing so. William D. Adams, the president of Colby College, told students in a letter that the college would continue its new policy of replacing loans with grants this year, but that he could not guarantee that future budgets would be able to afford to do so. Grinnell College in Iowa also intends to meet a promise this year that no student graduates with more than $2,000 a year in loans, but officials say it may be hard to sustain that.
''These are things you'll have to pry from our hands,'' said Seth Allen, Grinnell's dean of admission and financial aid. ''At the same time, you have to be realistic.''
Correction: April 1, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about colleges looking more favorably on wealthy applicants referred incorrectly to a pledge by Grinnell College to limit the amount of loans that students must pay back after graduation. The college promises that no student will graduate with more than $2,000 a year in loans -- not a total of $2,000 in loans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Diane Geller, a college counselor in Los Angeles, with a high school senior and her mother.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); BUDGETS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); CHILDREN (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1249 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
UNITED NATIONS URGES FOREIGN AID,
Holding Up Haiti as an Example
The economic crisis hit the world's destitute hardest of all. The United Nations is trying to remind wealthy nations that now it is even more important to keep foreign aid flowing. And Haiti is being held up as a symbol of that need. Page A5
ARABS CLOSE RANKS AROUND BASHIR
Arab leaders remain divided on several issues. But they all agree on the need to protect President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan from the charges leveled against him by the International Criminal Court. Page A5 
TESTIMONY STARTS IN KHMER TRIAL
Testimony began in the trial of Kaing Guek Eav, known as Duch, an official in the Khmer Rouge. Duch offered detailed descriptions of the internal workings and techniques inside the former Cambodian regime's largest torture and interrogation house. He admitted to orchestrating and sometimes taking part in torture that could continue for days. Page A6
FORMER CHECHEN GENERAL SHOT
An opponent of the Kremlin-backed Chechen president was shot in the Persian Gulf emirate of Dubai. The man was a former general in Chechnya, and the shooting was the most recent in a string of attacks against those with whom the president has had difficulties. Page A6
CRISIS FORGES AN UNLIKELY HARMONY
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany are often at odds. Personally and professionally, they don't seem to like each other much. But the economic crisis has forced an odd partnership between the leaders of the two largest economies that use the euro. They are trying to cobble a unified voice out of those nations as the Group of 20 meetings approach. Page A10
ISRAELI ARMY ENDS ABUSE INQUIRY
The Israeli military said its advocate general has decided to close the investigation into abuses by Israeli soldiers during the recent campaign in Gaza. Page A9
MILITIA GROUP DISARMED IN IRAQ
An Awakening Council was disarmed and disbanded by American and Iraqi forces after it staged an uprising when its leader was arrested in Baghdad. It will not be allowed to re-form or rearm, United States and Iraqi officials say. Page A12
World Bank Sees Slump in Russia
Becoming Worse A10
AFGHAN SUICIDE BOMBER KILLS 8
A suicide bomber wearing a police uniform blew himself up in a government building in the outskirts of Kandahar in Afghanistan. At least eight people are dead, including five police officers and three civilians, officials said. Page A13
National
IN A DETROIT EXPERIMENT,
2 Papers Are Now Not-So-Daily
The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News are undertaking a bold move in an effort to survive the downturn: stopping all home delivery on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. Their new plan angered many subscribers, particularly because it went into effect on an uncommonly busy news day, with the White House's pushing out the head of General Motors, new developments for Chrysler and Michigan State's reaching the Final Four. Detroit Journal. PAGE A14
FAMILY LINK EXAMINED IN SHOOTING
Law enforcement officials said Robert Stewart, the man accused of killing eight people at a nursing home in Carthage, N.C., on Sunday, might have chosen the building because his estranged wife was working there when the shooting occurred. PAGE A14
LIBERAL TILT IN JUDICIAL RATINGS
Though the American Bar Association says it evaluates potential nominees to the federal bench without regard to ideology, studies have found indications that liberal nominees do better in the screening process than conservative ones. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A14
MAKING SENSE OF THE RED RIVER
The Red River, which rose to potentially catastrophic flood levels last week, is relatively young and flows very slowly across a flat landscape -- factors that make it both prone to flooding and also make its behavior during those floods frustratingly hard to predict. PAGE A15
SEEKING TO REDUCE POLLUTANTS
The United States and Canada have asked the International Maritime Organization to designate their coastal regions as areas where oceangoing ships would face strict controls on emissions of sulfur, particulate matter like soot and other pollutants that endanger human health. PAGE A16
U.S. TO RELEASE DETAINEE
The Justice Department said that the administration had decided to release Ayman Saeed Abdullah Batarfi, a Yemeni doctor and a detainee at the prison at Guantanamo Bay who the Bush administration once claimed had taken part in a Qaeda anthrax program. PAGE A17
Obituaries
FRANCES BLAISDELL, 97
A flutist who played her way into what was then the male world of orchestral music, she became one of the early women to play a woodwind instrument with the New York Philharmonic. ''I had lots of opportunities because I was sort of a freak, and people couldn't imagine a girl flutist,'' she said. PAGE A24
New York
LAWMAKERS DEFEND DETAILS
Of Proposed Budget Plan
In a subdued appearance in the Capitol, Gov. David A. Paterson and legislative leaders defended their secretive negotiations and the $131.8 billion budget they produced, even as they warned that further deterioration in the economy could force them to return to the bargaining table in the coming months. But analysts said they saw little evidence of stern spending discipline, and said many of the proposed fees and taxes might generate less revenue than expected if the economy worsened. PAGE A19
POCKETS OF BENEVOLENCE
Some city merchants are giving discounts and lending helping hands to people who have lost their savings or their jobs during the economic downturn, a free suit cleaning or free dinners, for instance. Clyde Haberman, NYC. PAGE A19
Business
A WIDENING RIFT
Between the Bulls and Bears
The factions on Wall Street cannot seem to agree on whether the market's recent rallies mean the worst of the downturn has passed, and with so much uncertainty over the entire economy, the tug of war is not over. PAGE B1
A BIG SAY IN DETROIT'S FUTURE
General Motors' bondholders have complained about the company's restructuring plan and feel like they have been left out of the company's discussions with Washington. But they also wield large stakes in the company, and are likely to exert a lot of influence over Detroit's future. Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook PAGE B1
REWRITING THE FINE PRINT
The recession and the use of taxpayer money to bail out ailing companies have made it politically acceptable for government overseers to tinker with employment agreements, and worker contracts everywhere are under assault. PAGE B1
G.M.'S NEW CHIEF FACES TALL ORDER
Frederick A. Henderson has spent his career parachuting into troubled General Motors outposts to right their operations. As the automaker's new chief executive, he faces his biggest challenge ever: keeping the company afloat. PAGE B4
HUMMER'S UNCERTAIN FATE
Sales of Hummers have fallen 51 percent over the last year, more than any other brand in the auto industry. General Motors is trying to find a buyer for the brand, and if it cannot find one, it might close Hummer. A major part of the brand's problem is its image, which is closely tied to an idea of conspicuous consumption and America's dependence on foreign oil. Page B4
Arts
A PROTEST FROM THE RIGHT SIDE
Of the United States
In the country star John Rich's new single, ''Shuttin' Detroit Down,'' he shows off his songwriting acumen and an ability to gauge and channel the mood of the country, aggressively striking a note of conservative populism. PAGE C1
Theater Reviews
Pondering Life, While Spending
Forever on a Train
''Happiness,'' which opened this week at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, is one of those plays featuring a bunch of people randomly tossed together by fate -- and none are what they initially seem to be. The musical is set in a stalled New York City subway car, which Ben Brantley says is an unfortunate but apt metaphor for watching the play itself. PAGE C1
FLAWLESSLY INHABITING A LONELY SOUL
Charles Isherwood writes that the production of ''Hamlet'' at the Duke on 42nd Street Theater is generally excellent, but it's the actor Christian Camargo who shines brightest, in a virtually perfect portrayal of the troubled Dane. PAGE C1
Television Review A Love Best Left to Memory
In 1998, ABC canceled ''Cupid,'' a romantic comedy with a cult following that starred Jeremy Piven as a possibly insane man who believed he was the god of love and Paula Marshall as his rationalist psychiatrist who aimed to disabuse him of that notion. The network decided to bring the show back with a new cast, but some programs, Ginia Bellafante writes, are better left unrevived. PAGE C2
Music Review
Tuned to Radiohead's Frequency
When the classical pianist Christopher O'Riley decided to pair the music of the alt-rock group Radiohead with that of Shostakovich, he drew a diverse crowd, and his enthusiastic ovation was dotted with both bravos and whoops. PAGE C4
Sports
KISSINGER'S NEW MISSION:
Bring World Cup to the U.S.
Henry A. Kissinger has joined the committee that is seeking to bring the World Cup of soccer to the United States in 2018 or 2022. ''I will be 99 years old,'' he said, referring to 2022. ''I have sort of a moral obligation to stay around.'' George Vecsey, Sports of The Times. PAGE B12
SCIENCE
CREW IN MOSCOW TO SIMULATE
Part of a Flight to Mars
A Russian-led project based at the Institute for Biomedical Problems in Moscow is embarking on a simulated flight to Mars to test the limits of human tolerance for the isolation and monotony of interplanetary travel. PAGE D1
WHEN A PATIENT HAS MANY ILLNESSES
People with multiple health problems linger in hospitals longer, experience more serious preventable complications and die younger than patients with less complex medical profiles. Yet they are largely overlooked both in medical research and in the nation's clinics and hospitals. PAGE D1
Basics
Big Puzzles, Brought Down to Size
Here is how it works: You take a monster of a ponder like, what is the total volume of human blood in the world? You look for a wedge into the problem, and then you systematically break it down into edible bits. ''It's really just critical thinking,'' said John A. Adam, a professor of mathematics and an author of ''Guesstimation: Solving the World's Problems on the Back of a Cocktail Napkin.'' PAGE D2
GENE SHAPES TOIL OF ANT CASTES
Researchers studying the social behavior of ants have found that a single gene underlies both the aggressive behavior of the ant colony's soldiers and the food-gathering behavior of its foraging caste. PAGE D3
MAMMOGRAM BENEFITS DEBATED
Health officials in Britain have promised to rewrite informational fliers about mammography after advocates and experts complained in a letter to The Times of London that none of the handouts ''comes close to telling the truth'' -- overstating the benefits of screening and leaving out critical information about the harms. PAGE D5
RESHAPING THE HEART IS NO HELP
An operation that once looked promising to treat heart failure has turned out not to help patients, doctors are reporting. The operation, ventricular reconstruction, reshapes the heart's main pumping chamber in the hopes of making it work better. PAGE D7 MENOPAUSE AND DIP IN SEX DRIVE
With fully a third of their lives ahead of them, but with little or none of the hormones that fostered what may have been a robust sex life, many postmenopausal women experience diminished or absent sexual desire. Page D7
Editorial
THE LAST BEST CHANCE FOR DETROIT
President Obama struck an acceptable compromise between two unappealing options: letting General Motors and Chrysler go bankrupt right away or giving them billions of dollars more and hoping for the best. Instead, he decided to finance their operations for a few more weeks while forcing them to come up with a better overhaul plan. Now the government must stick to its objectives and deadlines. Page A26
A CHAMPION FOR THE CENSUS?
Inclusiveness and accuracy are crucial to an honest, robust census. After years of neglect, it will take a heroic effort to pull off a worthy 2010 count. We applaud the new commerce secretary's initial effort. Page A26
EVOLUTION SEMANTICS, TEXAS-STYLE
The Texas Board of Education gave grudging support last week to teaching the theory of evolution without the most troubling encumbrances sought by religious and social conservatives. But the margins were disturbingly close and compromise language left ample room for the struggle to continue. Page A26
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS
Some companies are in the steel business, some are in the cookie business, but General Motors is in the restructuring business. For 30 years, G.M. has been busy restructuring itself toward long-term viability. Today, G.M. and Chrysler have once again come up with restructuring plans. By an amazing coincidence, these plans are once again insufficient. Page A27
ONE ROADBLOCK TOO MANY FOR G.M.
In an Op-Ed article, William J. Holstein, the author of a book on General Motors, argues that the Obama administration's intervention threatens to derail a promising effort (led by its now former chief executive, Rick Wagoner) to transform the auto company. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); TORTURE (73%); ARMIES (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); ARRESTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CLOSINGS (67%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (68%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%) HAITI (94%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); GULF STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1250 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; A WORLD OF HURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4961 words

HEADLINE: For Injured Workers and Their Bosses, a Costly Legal Swamp

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The hurt workers wait on benches at the Queens office of the New York State Workers' Compensation Board.
People like Hopeton Watkis, 64, a laborer, who lost two teeth when he fell and hit a wheelbarrow.
Or Rajcoomar Jagan, 50, a construction worker, who injured a leg falling off a scaffold.
Or Vicki Marquez, 32, a retail sales associate, who hurt her elbow hauling clothes.
They come to the board seeking authorization for medical treatment and replacement wages -- in short, a quick and fair resolution from a system set up to replace fractious court fights between employers and employees. 
What they find instead is a subbasement of the legal world, a $5.5 billion-a-year state-run bureaucracy that, an examination by The New York Times found, struggles to treat workers with due speed, protect employers from fraud or mute tensions in the workplace.
These struggles are particularly evident each day in Queens, the state's busiest hearing office, where The Times spent 18 months attending hearings, reviewing cases and interviewing participants, virtually none of whom defended the system as efficient.
At some hearings, as judges looked on, lawyers chatted on cellphones, cracked bawdy jokes or read newspapers during testimony. Expert witnesses seemed biased to the point of caricature. Claims dragged on, but hearings seldom exceeded a few blurred minutes, rarely proved conclusive and were conducted in baffling shorthand.
Mr. Watkis waited two years to get his front teeth fixed. Ms. Marquez had to postpone elbow surgery for a year until the board allowed it. Mr. Jagan exhausted three years trying to get compensated, only to be denied all benefits, a decision that stunned even some insurance company lawyers.
''Comparing Supreme Court, say, to this is like comparing a hospital to a MASH unit,'' said Anthony Pizza, a lawyer for insurance companies. ''A lot of it is meatball justice.''
Workers' compensation systems across the country are troubled, and reform efforts are under way here. But New York, a pioneer of the concept and home to the nation's second-largest system, has some signature claims to dysfunction and is widely recognized as the most adversarial.
Though its commissioners largely function as a legal tribunal, most are not lawyers but relatives or allies of politicians, appointed usually without regard to experience in the field.
Though many cases turn on medical evaluations, the board has not had its own medical director for nearly a decade. Decisions are often driven by the opinions of doctors certified by the state as so-called independent medical examiners. Yet claimant lawyers and treating doctors say these examiners often understate workers' ailments to win business from the insurers who pay them.
Fines for infractions are usually small, and some insurers ignore paying them for years without consequence. A few months ago, New York City agreed to produce $1.1 million in penalties, some years overdue.
Workers are known to fabricate claims, while employers can be equally uninhibited about pressuring injured workers against filing for compensation, or punishing them if they do.
And everywhere the system tolerates delays that can make the injured wait months or years for money and care. Statewide, in about one in six cases, insurers dispute that injuries are real or were suffered on the job. Until recently, these cases had averaged nearly nine months to resolve. And many of them remain unresolved years later.
Even unchallenged cases plod on. A.I.G., the insurance company, said a review of its 2007 New York cases found that those involving missed work took on average 802 days to reach a final stage, 30 percent longer than in the rest of the country.
A recent task force study found that when insurers reject a medical procedure, say, an operation, it takes more than three or four months for the board to settle the dispute. The delay can mean that injuries heal slowly or improperly, and in 75 percent of those cases, the worker's need for the procedure is upheld.
Zachary S. Weiss, the chairman of the compensation board since late 2007, said that given the scope of what needs to be done, change must be incremental.
''There are millions of things I would like to correct and I'd like to correct them all immediately, and I can't,'' Mr. Weiss said.
State officials do say that as imperfect as it is now, the system used to be much worse. Before he resigned, Gov. Eliot Spitzer managed to pass a law that sliced costs and gave workers more money. Until then, New York's system had achieved the neat trick of being both among the most expensive for business and the stingiest to workers.
The board has recently found an interim medical director. But the intended overhaul has yet to deliver on many of its other goals and does not address some of the most stubborn flaws.
''There are still many issues that need to be dealt with,'' said Joel Shufro, executive director of the New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health and a labor advocate. ''How it will play out will not be known for a number of years.''
One target for improvement is basic record keeping. No one has ever documented, for example, the extent of worker fraud, though accounts of bogus claims have dominated news accounts of workers' compensation for years.
Actually, while the system has a lengthy history of being cheated by employees who exaggerate injuries, experts say they believe more substantial fraud and misbehavior are woven through the process in less obvious ways that hurt workers.
''This is a terrible thing to say,'' said Dr. Robin Herbert, co-director of the occupational and environmental division at Mount Sinai Medical Center, ''but if I had a health problem at work, I'm not sure I'd file a workers' comp claim. It's the Wild West of health insurance.''
Mary Jeffords, the head of Injured Workers of New York, an advocacy group, says she knows of numerous disabled workers so ground down by the process that they begin to unravel.
''I've talked to workers that held a gun to their head as we talked,'' she said.
Waiting for Help
George Vasilescu's reaction was immediate. He tossed his head back, thumped his feet.
''No more,'' Mr. Vasilescu, who is deaf and mute, signed. ''I beg you. No more.''
Mr. Vasilescu, 64, a hotel steward who hurt his back, neck and wrist, had just been told by his lawyer that the judge wanted him back for another medical exam, another hearing, another delay, after four years churning through the system.
It is a good day at the Queens hearing office when there is only one such outburst.
Few people think about workers' compensation until they wrench their back or lose a thumb and become one of the roughly 140,000 new cases filed statewide each year. Those with minor injuries often sail through the process.
But so many workers have been so frustrated or mistreated that they don't even submit claims when they are injured. Instead, they improperly use regular medical coverage. Or they apply only for Social Security disability or welfare. Costs rightly borne by employers are then billed to the general public.
All that is flawed with the system can be witnessed daily inside the stubby building at 168-46 91st Avenue in Jamaica, one of three dozen redoubts statewide where cases get heard. It doesn't take long there to grasp how proceedings have devolved into something out of Kafka, who was himself once a compensation claims examiner.
Cases are delayed for any of myriad reasons, or no reason. When the Workers' Compensation Research Institute recently studied speed of payment among 15 states, it found New York the slowest to pay workers their first check.
''These people are not chattel,'' said Neil Abramson, a claimant lawyer. ''They're human beings.''
In Queens, it often takes four to six months from the time of injury to get before a judge, a period during which a worker may not receive care or wages. Typically cases are decided piecemeal -- months can pass before both sides even agree on how much a worker earned -- and so that first encounter may begin a procession of hearings that become stretched-out wars. Any appeal had once meant another six to nine months for a ruling, though since the board made recent changes many have been coming much quicker.
Three-quarters of the appeals are by insurers.
An insurer appealed, for example, when Ms. Marquez sought surgery for her injured elbow in 2007. The appeal, which the board found particularly weak, meant the surgery did not get approved until a year later.
To accelerate cases, the board has increasingly allowed some involving lesser injuries to be decided by a claims examiner, instead of a judge. The examiners are not required to have legal or medical training, or even a high school diploma, and lawyers and judges say their decisions often contain errors. Judges must review the rulings, but some admit it often gets done hastily.
Largely because of delays and litigiousness, only about a third of the state's 66,000 active licensed doctors take compensation cases. One of those who does, Dr. Miron Fayngersh of Brooklyn, said he had 41 outstanding bills for a single case, one a year old.
''The percentage of denials is worse in workers' comp than in any other area in my experience,'' said Dr. Robert Goldberg, former head of the Medical Society of the State of New York.
One case that seems to exemplify the broad faults is that of Richard Frank, a forklift driver for New York City Transit. After he had a work accident in 1991, the agency prolonged his case for years, ignoring judges' orders, according to court rulings.
After a September 1995 hearing was adjourned because his employer had furnished illegible evidence, Mr. Frank told his lawyer ''the Transit Authority is going to kill me.'' That night he died of a heart attack. He was 50.
For a decade, the agency then contested whether his widow was due death benefits, until an appeals court ruled in 2005 that his death had been caused in part by the agency's ''unlawful coercion'' and ''disgraceful conduct'' in resisting his claim.
Claimants who typically wait months to talk to a judge are surprised by the lightning speed of hearings. Eight minutes is typical. A trial can run a half-hour to an hour. Some matters finish in a minute or two. Often workers don't even get to speak. Sometimes they wait outside while their lawyers perform.
Vera Rutherford, a substance abuse counselor whose carpal tunnel case had plodded along for two years, asked, ''Is it normal for a person to go in there and say nothing and have people decide their life for them?''
One day, Fernando Tenorio, a school safety officer hindered by a knee injury, emerged from his hearing, dazed by its velocity: four minutes flat.
For months, Mr. Tenorio had received no money. Now, his lawyer, Mark Allen, explained to him, the case was adjourned for another few weeks for an investigation, though he would be paid something while waiting.
As Mr. Allen put it, ''Six weeks is like tomorrow around here.''
But Mr. Tenorio blurted out, ''There're some other things I want to tell you.'' He had lost his apartment and was cooped up in his brother's basement; his bank account was empty.
Mr. Allen halted him: ''Forget about personal. They don't think of you as a person. They think of you as a file with a dollar sign on it. They don't care if you can't put food on the table or put braces on your daughter. You're thinking of this logically. I stopped thinking that way a long time ago. This is comp.''
Ambitious Assurances
New York's workers' compensation system was born in 1914, an idea of great promise that grew in part from great tragedy, the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire that killed 146 garment workers in 1911.
The state, one of the first to adopt such a program, founded the system on a simple bargain. Hurt workers, who previously had to prove their employer's negligence in court to get compensated, now would get medical care and wage benefits automatically. In turn, they would be barred from filing suit.
At its most basic, that no-fault insurance system is the same today. Essentially, companies buy compensation insurance and their premiums underwrite the cost of running the system and all claims. Virtually all employers must carry coverage.
Hearing rooms across the state are filled, not with office workers, but with people who make biscuits or work construction or strip beds: physical laborers who often live just above society's safety nets.
These workers confront a law that is maddeningly complex. In its barest form, it requires workers to report an injury to their employer within 30 days, then file a claim with the compensation board. If the insurer doesn't object, it is generally required to begin medical and wage benefits within a few weeks.
But if information is missing, as is common, the clock doesn't start until it is submitted, so payments often start much later. Disputed cases are frequent, require judicial intervention and can take months or years to resolve.
There are no cost-of-living adjustments, so payments can lag behind wages. A plumber who has New York's longest-running claim, from a back injury in 1937, gets all of $6 a week.
Given its tortuous nature, it's no wonder the system has figured in some of New York's noir moments. For 16 years in the 1940s and 1950s, George Metesky, the so-called Mad Bomber, concealed bombs around New York in a rage precipitated by the rejection of his claim.
Changes introduced in 2007 mean that for the first time since 1992 the maximum weekly benefit will rise, in stages, from a flat $400 to what will next year and thereafter be indexed to two-thirds of the state's average wage, a cap of about $760. But the reform also ended payouts that could last a lifetime for workers with permanent partial injuries, like an impaired back. Now these awards generally expire within 10 years.
Those adjustments were designed to correct a longstanding paradox of the New York system: how it could be one of the most expensive for employers yet have one of the lowest payouts to workers. Experts say that although the wage benefit was low, insurance rates were steep because the state, unlike many others, had no time limit on payments for permanent partial disabilities.
New York not only had a high level of these injuries, it also had one of the more litigious processes, which further drove up costs.
Today, even with the payout increases, New York lags behind many states. Injured workers in Iowa can get about double New York's limit.
John F. Burton Jr., professor emeritus at the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations and an expert on workers' compensation, feels that systems nationwide have become less fair to workers, in part because the political balance has tilted toward management.
''In general, it's not economics that is driving this,'' he said. ''It's that employers have gotten the upper hand.''
In New York, average premiums have fallen over the last dozen years (though they vary enormously among employers), as have claims. But the perception reigns, driven in part by insurers, law enforcement and the news media, that the system is expensive because it is bloated with embroidered claims.
Fraud does occur, not only when workers feign injuries, but also when they stay out five weeks when four would suffice. In 2007, the authorities arrested a bus driver, receiving compensation for a hurt shoulder, who Brooklyn prosecutors said had been touring Europe as a drummer in a rock band.
But experts believe far more money is siphoned by employers that illegally underpay premiums by underreporting the size of their work force or by doctors who fabricate bills.
Some defects are addressed by the latest changes. For example, ''rocket docket'' rules are being applied to speed up initially disputed cases, and while not everyone has embraced them, some progress has been made.
''We want our comp system to do so much,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''And it should do so much. And it does so little.''
As head of the compensation board, Mr. Weiss, who earns $120,800, directs the system, which employs 1,500 people. The other commissioners earn $90,800 and primarily rule on appeals that bubble up from local offices.
Commissioners often work from home, reviewing opinions generated for them by board lawyers. Just five of the current 11 commissioners are lawyers.
Last year, after a dozen years as a commissioner, Michael T. Berns wrote a book titled ''Behind the Closed Doors,'' which he describes as a kind of apology for a system where, he said, workers suffer in part because some commissioners know too little about the relevant law, work just a few hours a week and do not read many of the decisions they sign.
''The whole push is a numbers production,'' he said. ''Quality is irrelevant.''
The board members are appointed by the governor in a process long regarded as dominated by politics.
Commissioner Candace K. Finnegan is a former personnel director for a state psychiatric facility, and also a close friend of Libby Pataki, the wife of former Gov. George E. Pataki. Ellen O. Paprocki had been assistant director of the New York State Fair, and is also the daughter of John O'Mara, who was an adviser to Mr. Pataki.
Frances M. Libous, a former nurse, is married to Thomas W. Libous, a ranking Republican state senator. Mark D. Higgins, recently appointed by Gov. David A. Paterson, is a longtime union official and brother of Representative Brian Higgins, an upstate Democrat.
''It is political employment for the politically connected,'' said Richard A. Bell, a commissioner. He once served as the board's executive director, and his wife worked as an executive assistant to Mr. Pataki.
While politics is a factor in appointments, several members said those selected are nonetheless qualified.
For years, judges and lawyers say, politics also played a role in who got hired as district administrators to run the system's 11 district offices. The posts, created a decade ago by state lawmakers, paid $104,080 a year. But critics said the administrators' duties were light and little different from those of the district managers they were brought in to supervise.
This month, the board simply did away with district administrators, leaving two regional administrators in their stead, millions of dollars having been spent to no clear end.
Injured and Indigent
Carlos Pabon, a parks department manager and an Army veteran, hurt his back and neck when someone opened a door into him in a Bronx storeroom in 1997 and knocked him down a flight of stairs. Tossed into the cumbersome workers' compensation system, he has never left.
Initially, the system took care of his injuries and Mr. Pabon, now 50, stayed on the job, earning up to $60,000 a year. But his pain worsened over time, he said, and he began to miss days. In the summer of 2006, his doctors advised him to stop working.
New York City arranged for him to get an independent medical exam. That doctor felt that Mr. Pabon's doctors were wrong. He had no disability. He could do his job without restriction.
In January 2007, the wage benefits he had been receiving stopped because of the independent doctor's report.
Michael Serres, Mr. Pabon's lawyer, sought to challenge the doctor by having him testify. But nearly a year would go by before he did.
In the meantime, Mr. Pabon, who said he wrestled with grinding pain, could not live on a tiny military pension and the slim disability income of his fiancee, Grace James. The bank seized his car. He reached the limit on his credit cards and pawned his jewelry. He went on welfare.
In November 2007, the city's doctor finally testified. He stood by his report. Another hearing in Queens was scheduled.
The matter was still unresolved last year when a city marshal arrived at Mr. Pabon's apartment with an eviction notice. It was Valentine's Day. Mr. Pabon was eight months behind on the rent.
In a bone-chilling wind, they left: Mr. Pabon, Ms. James, their child and another from Ms. James's previous relationship. A third child was at school. They juggled what they could carry, including their bird. After depositing the children with a relative, Mr. Pabon and Ms. James rode the A train all night. The next evening, they slept in the boiler room of an apartment house.
Soon, they landed in an echoing homeless shelter where they washed their clothes in the tub. Occasionally, Mr. Pabon stole food. ''I took cookies, hard salami, half a pint of milk, cakes, doughnuts, small stuff,'' he said. ''I stole a deodorant stick from Rite-Aid.''
''I worked in the parks taking care of kids, making sure they didn't get hurt, being a role model,'' he said. ''Here I am stealing things.''
They moved from one shelter to another. Mr. Pabon began to have nightmares and imagined himself blowing up people. He and Ms. James bickered.
''Look at where we are,'' she told him one day. ''What kind of man are you?''
The next hearing for Mr. Pabon, his 13th in a case in its 11th year, was set for April 1, 2008.
Mr. Pabon arrived by bus from the shelter. He was penniless.
''I feel so down. I mean, down on the ground,'' he told his fiancee.
''This could put someone in a mental hospital,'' she replied. ''I can see myself sitting in a room in a straitjacket, rocking.''
As the hearing approached, as often happens, the lawyers fashioned a deal. Mr. Pabon was offered $265 a week. By the system's metrics, he was deemed about 33 percent disabled.
The calibrations of disability can be arbitrary. Few doctors are trained to gauge how injuries restrict a person's particular work capability. Some workers with frightful injuries are judged 75 percent disabled. But a professor, or an accountant, can often continue a career. Laborers judged 25 or 50 percent disabled often are stuck. Who hires a laborer who can manage half a job?
Mr. Pabon had expected $400 a week, the limit for a case of this vintage. Yet he accepted.
''I need money now,'' he said.
After the lawyer's fee, Mr. Pabon would get a back-payment check of $11,921. Once he satisfied his most pressing creditors and bought clothes for his family, he expected to have maybe $7,000 left.
He still would be unable to work and without a home.
John Vos, the lawyer for the insurer, saw the deal as an effort ''to meet in the middle.'' He said he had no idea how injured Mr. Pabon was -- ''I'm not a doctor'' -- and that the cyclical hearings were simply the norm.
Compensation cases are like serials without endings. Over the next eight months, Mr. Pabon was sent to two more insurance exams, had two more hearings, got his rate raised to $350 because of continuing depression and had a kidney removed.
He continues to live in a shelter.
Joking and Settling
The compensation lawyers in Queens are a clubby bunch. Often they go to greasy spoons for burgers and pizza, claimant and insurer alike, piling into the van of Ed Hilfer, a claimant lawyer.
Few students in law school imagine a career as a workers' comp lawyer or judge. For most, it is an accidental destination. Many say they chose it because of the hours. Hearings go from 9 to 4, and judges and lawyers often fly out the door minutes after their last case.
Fees for claimant lawyers are set by judges and come out of awards to workers. Insurer lawyers get paid whatever they negotiate. Rewards for claimant lawyers in Queens typically arrive in dribs and drabs of $50 and $100 fees, augmented by sweeter windfalls from settlements.
For both sides, it is a volume business: the more hearings, the more fees, thus the incentive to keep cases alive.
For workers, a lawyer can be an essential brace. In Queens, though, a claimant is commonly represented by a firm that specializes in workers' compensation law, not an individual. So if there are six hearings, a different lawyer might handle each one. Sometimes a freelancer steps in when the assigned lawyer is overloaded.
As a result, some hearing lawyers have never spoken to the client, and have barely studied the file. The same hasty preparation is often true for the insurance lawyer and the judge. Even preparation for trial testimony might get done in a few stuttering moments in the waiting area.
During one hearing, a claimant's lawyer asked his client a question in Spanish. That went poorly, since the man was Armenian.
''There was a judge I was talking to and he said there are only two ways in my court that your fees would be cut: if you're not friendly or if you're not willing to compromise,'' said Mr. Pizza, the insurance company lawyer. ''I said, 'What if you're not prepared?' He said that doesn't matter.''
Between hearings, the lawyers' room has the feel of a college social club. Lawyers play pinochle. Watch hockey fights on YouTube. Joke about judges, like the ''Cruise Director,'' whom they mock for roaming the halls. Or they check the ''meat chart,'' which lists awards for lost body parts, based on a grisly schedule that codifies missing limbs with weeks of wages.
The rate for an arm is 312 weeks of wages. A leg gets 288, a big toe 38, the index finger 46. Rates fluctuate by state, for no apparent reason. Lose an index finger in Idaho, it's 70 weeks.
Despite the esprit de corps, the opposing lawyers have clashing worldviews about the system.
A few years ago, Mark Allen represented a delivery driver who had injured his back lifting packages. The next day, the man told his manager the pain was so bad it hurt when he pulled on his socks. The insurer said: not a work injury; he must have hurt himself putting on his socks.
''If you fell out of a tree when you were 5 and you have a knee injury when you're 55, they'll say it was the tree,'' Mr. Allen said.
On the insurer side, Nicholas Rupwani typifies the many lawyers who view the system as a worker fraud trough. One day he recounted the case of a pet store clerk bitten by a rat who said her injuries had been serious and the experience traumatizing. Yet, Mr. Rupwani noted, her MySpace page showed her throwing darts in a bar and indicated she might start a pornographic Web site.
Mr. Rupwani said he felt bad for workers who suffer crushing injuries -- but not too bad. ''If you're a secretary with a torn meniscus who is losing her house, go back to work,'' he said. ''It might hurt, but people work through the pain.''
When workers moan during hearings about family strife and ruin, he said, ''that's when I tune out.'' His theory is that the more people broadcast their situation, the more likely they are fakes.
''Sometimes the claimant is sitting next to you and doing this quiet sobbing,'' Mr. Rupwani said. ''That's when I usually recommend that the insurer put them under surveillance.''
He said he recommended surveillance about once a day.
Both sides talk about how inconsistent decisions are. ''The law allows some leeway,'' said Mr. Pizza, ''but there shouldn't be eight different ways of doing things. 'I won't allow depositions,' 'I will allow depositions,' 'I'll only allow 15 minutes a witness.' You shouldn't put justice on a time clock.''
A popular option in the last decade is a cash settlement under which workers close their cases in exchange for a lump payment to cover living expenses and medical bills.
For some workers, a settlement might allow them to start a business or get a degree. For others, they are economic quicksand, one-time payouts that some people find hard to resist. A state task force found that those who accept them are typically lower-paid workers, with average wages of about $19,000.
Insurers relish settlements because they end their exposure. Claimant attorneys relish them, too. They typically extract a 10 to 15 percent cut.
But do workers know what they're choosing?
The lawyers routinely say clients are ''adults.'' But the compensation system is so puzzling that even a Queens judge abandoned her own case years ago out of frustration. And there are lawyers in Queens, regulars at the hearing office say, who undersell settlements, pushing low-ball deals on workers just to pocket a quick payday.
No comprehensive studies have examined the impact of settlements, though limited academic studies tend to find them problematic.
''If it were my case, I wouldn't take one,'' said Thomas Gleason, a former executive director of the board who is now a deputy executive director of the State Insurance Fund, New York's biggest workers' compensation insurer. ''Some guys get $50,000 or $60,000 and go out and buy a new car -- or go to the casino.''
Jorge Manzano, 31, a lumber company driver who hurt his back lifting a cement bag, was offered a settlement in 2007. His lawyer negotiated a $12,500 payment, but Mr. Manzano felt that was insufficient and hired a new lawyer.
At a hearing, his new lawyer asked, ''What do you want?''
He said, ''Like double.''
The insurance lawyer agreed to $20,000. After a legal fee of $3,000, Mr. Manzano would get $17,000.
His lawyer, who knew almost nothing about the case, made a quick fee, the insurer concluded its exposure and the compensation board closed one more file.
And Mr. Manzano?
He said he plucked the $25,000 number out of the air. His friends warned him not to settle. What if he needed surgery? After all, he could barely hold his daughter. ''I'm like an old man,'' he said.
But his motivation, as it so often is in the compensation universe, was simply to escape the stultifying system.
''I don't want to come here and feel like I'm begging,'' he said. ''Frankly, I'll take just about anything, just so I don't have to see this place ever again.''
A World of Hurt: A New York Times examination of New York State's workers' compensation system uncovered a universe of delays, suspicion and questionable rulings. Day 1: ''Meatball Justice'' Day 2: ''That's the Game, Baby'' Day 3: ''Safety Bucks'' Online: A video report on a disability case, resources on the topic and a readers' Q & A with the reporters and an expert: nytimes.com/nyregion

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lawyer-client conference in the waiting area of the compensation board's Queens office. (A1)
Dr. Robin Herbert, a specialist in occupational medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan
At left, lawyers in the hall at the Queens office of the compensation board. At right, Carlos Pabon, hurt on the job in 1997, spent years seeking workers' compensation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22
A23) CHARTS: A Panel's Diverse Resume: Medical, Legal and Political: Several members of the Workers' Compensation Board, a legal tribunal that presides over disputed medical cases, have related professional backgrounds. Most of them also have some tie to politics. (A22)
Hearing After Hearing: A System's Slow Pace: After 12 years and 15 compensation hearings, Carlos Pabon, a parks department worker hurt on the job, receives a benefit of $18,200 a year, but is homeless.
Small Payouts, Slowly Disbursed: In New York, claims take longer to resolve than in other states, and maximum wage replacement benefits have been among the lowest in the country. After remaining unchanged for 15 years, the $400 maximum weekly benefit began to rise in 2007, and will reach about $760 in 2010.
MAP (Sources: Workers' Compensation Research Institute
Census
 U.S. Chamber of Commerce) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INSURANCE (86%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); WITNESSES (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (72%); EXPERT WITNESSES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); RETAIL SALES (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1251 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: New Leaders Hold Detroit's Prospects in Their Hands

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Frederick A. Henderson, a Detroit native known as Fritz, is the quintessential General Motors man. The son of a Buick sales manager, he has spent most of his adult life at G.M., often parachuting into troubled G.M. operations around the globe.
Now, as G.M.'s new interim chief executive, he faces the biggest challenge of all -- keeping G.M. itself afloat. 
Mr. Henderson has spent time in 45 countries, heading G.M. operations in Latin America, Asia and Europe and gaining an encyclopedic knowledge of its far-flung operations. In 2006, he returned to the United States as G.M.'s chief financial officer just as the current crisis began.
Ten months after Mr. Henderson took over G.M.'s Latin American operations in 1997, Brazil's economy collapsed and Mr. Henderson was forced to make layoffs and close factories. He responded with the development of small, inexpensive cars that became regional best sellers.
While he was in Asia, starting in 2002, G.M. expanded in China and bought a majority of the Korean automaker Daewoo, which provides G.M. with small cars for overseas markets. In Europe in 2004, he managed to cut 12,000 jobs, despite a six-day wildcat strike in Germany.
Through it all, Mr. Henderson gained a reputation as a bulldog. He helped engineer the sale of a majority of G.M.'s financial arm, GMAC, to the private equity firm Cerberus, but was also a major player in GMAC's ill-fated move into mortgage lending.
Now, Mr. Henderson will have to see if all his years as a roving G.M. repairman can pay off.
--
Kent Kresa, the new chairman of G.M.'s board, is no stranger to government oversight, having been chief executive of Northrop Grumman, one of the largest military contractors, for 13 years.
At Northrop, Mr. Kresa's main customer -- the government -- provided the company's revenue and helped guide its strategy. Mr. Kresa has said that he welcomes government oversight of the automaker, as long as the federal overseers are people who understand the business.
He has gone through corporate turnarounds himself. When it became clear in the mid-1990s that Northrop was going to become an also-ran in military aviation, he steered the company into military electronics and information technology, and then began a corporate acquisition spree.
After leaving Northrop in 2003, Mr. Kresa joined the G.M. board and the politically connected Carlyle Group, a private equity firm in Washington.
Mr. Kresa remained a staunch defender of G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, even after auto industry executives were greeted with derision and criticism by Congress last fall. Mr. Kresa told The Associated Press in December that Mr. Wagoner had done an excellent job and did not deserve to be sacked.
''If you look at it carefully,'' Mr. Kresa said, ''you'd find that Rick's done a good job.''
--
If anyone understands the concept of speed it is Sergio Marchionne, the Fiat chief executive. He is known both for his love of fast cars and his ability to deliver fast corporate turnarounds.
He now has 30 days to meet the Obama administration's deadline for negotiating a Fiat-Chrysler partnership.
Since becoming Fiat's chief in 2004 -- he was hand-picked by the Agnelli family who founded Fiat -- Mr. Marchionne has delivered one of the auto industry's most impressive turnarounds, bringing profits to an automaker that seemed in a death spiral.
Mr. Marchionne pulled the cobwebs off Fiat's cumbersome bureaucracy, brought a can-do culture to a hidebound organization and gave free rein to young talent. Fiat soon began to grab market share, turning losses into profits. It has brought out popular new products, like the compact and technologically advanced Fiat Bravo.
A chartered accountant, Mr. Marchionne, a dual Canadian and Italian citizen, has worked and studied in Canada, including getting a master's degree in business from the University of Windsor, right across the river from Detroit. Like many in Detroit, Mr. Marchionne believes in the historical heritage of great car brands and feels that heritage gives both Fiat and Chrysler a competitive advantage over the efficient, but bland, cars produced by Japan.
Mr. Marchionne is also not shy in his taste for the fast lane. Two years ago, he crashed his Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano -- and walked away with hardly a scratch.
--
Edward Montgomery, who has worked in both government and academia, was a supporter of Barack Obama's in the presidential campaign, and his praise for Mr. Obama's economic plan for working-class Americans found a way onto the campaign Web site.
Now, Mr. Montgomery, the new director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers, has the chance to turn words into action as he helps the workers and communities hardest hit by the downturn with government aid and job creation programs. Mr. Obama said Monday that Mr. Montgomery would be a ''strong advocate.''
Mr. Montgomery is dean of the University of Maryland's College of Behavioral and Social Sciences, the university's largest school. He was also part of the Obama transition team on Labor Department issues.
In the Clinton administration, he was the Labor Department's deputy secretary and frequently spoke out about the importance of manufacturing in providing good jobs for American workers and their families.
In Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, those are comforting words.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fritz Henderson: Interim chief executive of General Motors (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BERRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Kent Kresa: Incoming chairman of G.M.'s board (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Sergio Marchionne: Chief executive officer of Fiat (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Edward Montgomery: Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); STRIKES (68%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (67%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); BOARD CHANGES (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (54%); NOC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (93%); RICK WAGONER (58%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1252 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Almighty Empire With a Global Reach

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
GOD IS BACK
How the Global Revival of Faith Is Changing the World
By John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge
405 pages. The Penguin Press. $27.95.
In their new book, ''God Is Back,'' John Micklethwait, editor in chief of The Economist, and Adrian Wooldridge, that magazine's Washington bureau chief, argue that religion is ''returning to public life'' around the world, that ''the great forces of modernity -- technology and democracy, choice and freedom -- are all strengthening religion rather than undermining it,'' that these days ''religion is playing a much more important role in public and intellectual life.'' They assert that ''religion is becoming a matter of choice,'' something that individuals themselves decide to believe in instead of something imposed upon them, and that ''the surge of religion is being driven by the same two things that have driven the success of market capitalism: competition and choice.'' 
The authors made similarly sweeping generalizations in their previous book, ''The Right Nation'' (2004), generalizations that were proven almost comically wrong by the midterm elections of 2006 and the 2008 election of Barack Obama. In that earlier book Mr. Micklethwait and Mr. Wooldridge contended that ''the center of gravity in American politics has moved to the right,'' that the 2004 election might have represented ''something of a last chance for the Democrats,'' and that ''conservatives have succeeded in part because, in a country where only half the electorate bothers to vote, they are better organized than other sorts of Americans.''
One of the problems with ''The Right Nation'' was that the authors selected information and examples that supported their thesis, while ignoring or diminishing data that contradicted it, and they employ a similarly flawed methodology in ''God Is Back.''
In arguing that ''religion's power'' has ''continued to increase,'' they contradict considerable evidence to the contrary. (The 2008 American Religious Identification Survey, released this month, found that ''the U.S. population continues to show signs of becoming less religious, with one out of every five Americans failing to indicate a religious identity in 2008.'') In arguing that modernity and religion are compatible, Mr. Wooldridge and Mr. Micklethwait play down that Osama bin Laden and other radical jihadis embrace highly puritanical, backward-looking forms of Islam that stand in direct opposition to much of modernity. (The authors also fail to grapple with the anti-progressive impulses of Christian and Jewish fundamentalism.) And in arguing that religion is increasingly a matter of choice, they ignore the plight of people (like women under Taliban rule) who are forced to live by strict religious codes they themselves may not believe in.
What this book does best is give the reader some glimpses of the new forms that religion is taking around the world, while explicating some of the reasons that religion might appeal to people in modern times: as a source of community in an increasingly atomized world; as a source of certainty in an era of rapid technological and social change; as a source of identity for immigrants far away from home; and as a source of social assistance (like food for the poor, educational programs and medical assistance) in economically challenging times.
Some of the churches described in this volume sound more like huge suburban malls or recreation centers than places of worship, offering self-help advice, social services and entertainment in place of spiritual sustenance. The Second Baptist Church in Houston, the authors report, boasts a school for over 12,000 students, a day-care center, basketball and racquetball courts, an air-conditioned walking track, a bowling alley, a bookshop, a cafeteria and a football field complete with floodlights. And the Willow Creek Community Church in South Barrington, Ill. -- which aims to provide its members with ''total service excellence'' -- offers food courts, basketball courts, cafes and ''affinity groups'' for everyone from motorcycle enthusiasts to dieters.
In America, Mr. Wooldridge and Mr. Micklethwait assert, the free market in religion ''forces clergymen to compete for market share,'' and as a result it's produced ''relentless innovation'' in the form of ''new religious 'products.' '' There are ''biker churches for bikers, cowboy churches for cowboys, sports-minded churches for the sporty.'' Keith Moore, the founder and head of Moore Life Ministries and Faith Life Church in Missouri, they report, has given lectures on the subject of whether Jesus would wear a Rolex. (The answer, the authors write, ''is yes: Jesus happily accepted expensive personal gifts, and it was actually Judas who suggested giving them to the poor.'') And the Golgotha Fun Park (talk about oxymorons!) in Kentucky features a Bible-theme miniature golf course starting with the Creation at the first hole and ending with the Resurrection at the 18th.
This American style of religion has begun to spread around the world through the efforts of what the authors call pastorpreneurs, who have modeled themselves on their American counterparts, building megachurches and entrepreneurial empires. In Guatemala, they observe, there is a 12,000-seat church with a heliport and giant baptism pool, built at the end of a road called Burger King Drive; and in South Korea there is an 830,000-member church (growing ''by 3,000 a month'') with 12 choirs, 3 orchestras and ''huge television screens supplying the words'' to hymns ''karaoke-style.''
The authors write in their introduction that one of them is a Roman Catholic and one is an atheist, and that they hope ''whatever biases we bring have canceled each other out,'' but they often sound very rah-rah about religion in their observations and choice of language. They talk of the ''acids of modernity'' seeping ''into American intellectual life throughout much of the late 19th century,'' diminishing the role of religion on college campuses. After noting the small number of believers in France, Germany and other European countries, they add: ''Still there are a few glimmers of light on the horizon. Those glimmers are brightest to the east. In Poland, more than 70 percent of the population regularly go to church.''
In another chapter Mr. Micklethwait and Mr. Wooldridge even rationalize the marketing of religion in America through preposterous gimmicks (like Christian diet books) and the Disney-like appeal of megachurches. They write, as though this might be a good thing, that ''the megachurches may be soft on the surface, but they are hard on the inside,'' that ''Disneyfied'' American religion ''contains plenty of good old-fashioned fire and brimstone stuff'': the best-selling ''Left Behind'' novels pull ''no punches when it comes to the end of the world and the fiery fate that awaits all those scoffing unbelievers,'' and the people at Lakewood Church in Houston believe that ''the entire Bible is inspired by God, without error.'' The authors add that ''the gospel of self-help and prosperity is as American as apple pie'' and argue that ''the simplest defense of Jesus Inc., is indeed growth: modern management is bringing more people to God, and providing more cash for the churches to spread his word.'' They continue, ''For instance, the target audience for the megachurches consists of baby boomers who left the church in adolescence, who don't feel comfortable with overt displays of religiosity, who dread turning into their parents, and who apply the same consumerist mentality to spiritual life as they do to every other aspect of their experience.''
The last section heading in the last chapter of this unpersuasive book reads, ''God Is Back, for Better,'' which, in retrospect, seems like an apt summary of this volume's poorly argued thesis, as well as its nonagnostic point of view.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 John Micklethwait, left, and Adrian Wooldridge.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HUGO BURAND)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); WRITERS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (66%); AL-QAEDA (63%); TALIBAN (63%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: God is Back (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1253 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Woes Are Top Test For Aid Effort

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- Paul Collier, a leading poverty guru, spent a recent morning here waxing positive about how the world's economic freefall might prove the perfect moment for Haiti to sell more exports like T-shirts and mangoes to Americans.
His improbable enthusiasm coincided with appearances by a bevy of luminaries descending on Haiti this month, including Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, and the entire Security Council. All of them came to stress that this destitute nation stands at a crossroads between salvation and ''the darkness,'' as Mr. Ban put it.
The spotlight was calculated. A landscape of deepening woe is emerging among the world's most destitute. About 46 million more people are expected to tumble into poverty this year amid the largest decline in global trade in 80 years, according to the World Bank. The results ripple through every index. An additional 200,000 to 400,000 infants, for example, may die every year for the next six years because of the crisis, the bank said. 
Amid the turmoil, the United Nations is reminding the world's wealthy nations, however embattled their finances, not to forget the poorest. A panel commissioned by the United Nations General Assembly suggested on Thursday that one percent of any nation's stimulus package be set aside for poor countries, while Mr. Ban has vowed that when he joins the leaders of the Group of 20 at their economic summit meeting in London on Thursday, he will voice the concerns of the uninvited.
''There are many countries who cannot even dream of formulating their own fiscal stimulus packages,'' Mr. Ban said. Last week, he sent a letter to the Group of 20 members arguing that, domestic problems aside, they should give $1 trillion over the next two years to the world's most vulnerable nations.
Mr. Ban is trying to turn Haiti into something of an Exhibit A on the need to keep foreign aid flowing despite tighter budgets. Haiti's upheavals last year proved particularly intense, with the nation staggering beneath the double whammy of food riots that toppled the government and a series of hurricanes that killed hundreds and battered the economy.
Now the United Nations worries that while the groundwork has been laid to get past those threats, the moment will fade because of the global crisis. The organization has spent some $5 billion on peacekeeping operations here since 2004, when the government of the still popular President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was toppled -- many say with a shove from the Bush administration.
The peacekeeping force declared war against the gangs that plague Haiti, with some success. Kidnappings dropped to 258 victims last year from 722 in 2006, according to United Nations figures.
With the issue of security improved, Mr. Ban commissioned Mr. Collier -- an Oxford University don whose book on fixing failed states, ''The Bottom Billion,'' turned him into a darling at United Nations headquarters -- to whip up some solutions for rejuvenating Haiti.
Haiti needs jobs, a particular challenge in the current economic climate. Haitians often seek work in the United States, but that safety valve has been squeezed given the recession. With some 900,000 youths expected to come into the job market in the next five years, dismal prospects are the main threat to stability.
''There is nothing that is going to turn Haiti around until people have jobs,'' said the rap artist and native son Wyclef Jean, who came to the island with Mr. Ban and former President Bill Clinton. Mr. Jean's charity, Yele Haiti, underwrites education for thousands of young Haitians.
In a downtown park, Idelson Francois, 24, said he finished high school four years ago and had failed to find a job or money to continue his education. ''When you have no self-esteem, sometimes you can't resist the desire to do something violent,'' he said.
It required five months to seat a new government after the April 2008 food riots, and United Nations officials say development is stymied by a corrupt judicial system, weak land tenure laws and wildly inefficient ports. The roads are such moonscapes that some 40 percent of the mango crop gets too bruised to be sold abroad, said Jean M. Buteau, a leading exporter.
Some diplomats worry that the government does not have the capacity to carry out even Mr. Collier's limited prescriptions for improving manufacturing, infrastructure, agriculture and the environment.
''What is lacking is the determination to put these good ideas into a coherent policy,'' said Yukio Takasu, the Japanese ambassador to the United Nations, on the Security Council tour here. ''I don't think there is a focus.''
Constant upheaval has long scared off investors. To counter that, last year the United States Congress granted Haitian textiles duty-free access to the American market for a decade, giving rise to Mr. Collier's optimism. The policy has added just 12,000 jobs thus far, but it is viewed as a possible boon in an era of rising protectionism.
Senior United Nations officials and other diplomats worry, however, that the tempo of new factory jobs is too slow, so they think money should be pumped into emergency programs like creating jobs to fix the environmental disaster by planting the denuded hills with forests.
There is also some criticism that Mr. Collier's basic recommendation involves turning Haiti into a sweatshop for American consumers, with workers paid $5 per day or less. He and others defend the approach, with Mr. Clinton noting after a visit to a Hanes T-shirt factory here that its workers earned some two or three times Haiti's minimum wage of $1.75 a day.
Haiti is so close to the United States that its problems tend to reverberate as illegal immigration, and the Marines have stormed ashore repeatedly since the first American occupation started in 1915.
Not every problem can be addressed with the military, and ignoring development has proved deadly, said Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador to the United Nations. ''Where we have neglected it, it comes back to bite us.'' Haiti could receive more than $245 million in American development aid this year.
Haitian officials hope the world gives generously, though there is a certain recognition of donor fatigue, especially in the economic storm.
But young Haitians grumble that their government has yet to paint a vision of the country's future -- complaints echoed by United Nations officials who say it is difficult to get President Rene Preval or his ministers to commit to an action plan.
''Just providing rice and beans is not a long-term solution,'' said John Miller Beauvoir, 26, who founded a charity right out of college and wrote a book calling on other young Haitians to get involved in development. ''If the captain does not know where you are going, no boat will take you in the right direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman sold goods at a market in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Some 40 percent of the mango crop gets too bruised to be sold abroad because of Haiti's bad roads.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALICE SMEETS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A5)
 One poverty expert says the economic downturn may be a chance for Haiti to ship more exports like T-shirts, above, at a Port-au-Prince plant, and mangoes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALICE SMEETS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); COUPS (65%); RIOTS (60%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); HURRICANES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1254 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bill Auction

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Interest rates on short-term Treasury bills were mixed in Monday's auction, with rates on three-month bills falling to the lowest level in two months while rates on six-month bills edged up. 
 Longer-term rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill was up 12/32, to 100 10/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.71 percent, down from 2.76 percent late Friday.
 Separately, the Federal Reserve said the average yield for one-year Treasury bills fell to 0.59 percent last week from 0.64 percent the previous week.
 Following are the results of Monday's auction:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); AUCTIONS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1255 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DETROIT JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: In a Grand Experiment, 2 Daily Newspapers Now Not So Daily

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and MARY CHAPMAN; Mary M. Chapman reported from Detroit, and Richard Perez-Pena from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Maybe once a year, a city has a news day as heavy as the one that just hit Detroit: The White House forced out the chairman of General Motors, word leaked that the administration wanted Chrysler to hitch its fortunes to Fiat, and Michigan State University's men's basketball team reached the Final Four, which will be held in Detroit.
 All of this news would have landed on hundreds of thousands of Motor City doorsteps and driveways on Monday morning, in the form of The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News. 
 Would have, that is, except that Monday -- of all days -- was the long-planned first day of the newspapers' new strategy for surviving the economic crisis by ending home delivery on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. Instead, on those days, they are directing readers to their Web sites and offering a truncated print version at stores, newsstands and street boxes.
 ''This morning, I felt like something was missing,'' said Nancy Nester, 51, a program coordinator at a traumatic brain injury center who is from West Bloomfield and has subscribed to both papers for four years. ''There was this feeling of emptiness.''
 She did not even bother to pick up the condensed print versions that were offered free on Monday. ''I don't have time to stop at the store,'' she said. ''That's why I have home delivery.''
 To Carol Banas, a retired city planner and longtime Free Press reader, the idea of not having a printed paper is unimaginable. ''I'm at the age where I like my newspapers in hand,'' said Ms. Banas, 56, who read a hard copy of Monday's abbreviated Free Press in an Einstein Brothers Bagels shop in Royal Oak. ''I know that's English online, but it's not the same.''
 On Monday, The News and The Free Press, which share business functions under a joint operating agreement, distributed more than half a million free copies of their condensed print editions, but they will begin charging (50 cents, as always) on Tuesday. The Free Press, the larger of the papers, will still make home deliveries on Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays, and The News, which does not have a Sunday issue, will deliver on Thursdays and Fridays.
 They have been heavily promoting not just their Web sites, but also online ''e-editions'' that look just like the printed papers. The e-editions have been open to everyone, but executives say that soon, only paying customers will be able to see them. For a day, at least, there was no doubt about the demand: the computers delivering the e-editions could not keep up on Monday morning, and many people were unable to load them.
 ''We had an overwhelming -- literally overwhelming -- number of people trying to get onto the e-edition site this morning, and it's gratifying on one hand, but it slowed things down,'' said Jonathan Wolman, editor and publisher of The News, which is owned by MediaNews Group.
 The papers went to great effort to prepare readers, printing warnings and guides to the new format, but not everyone got the message. ''A lot of people were prepped for it, and yet we've also been hearing from folks who were surprised that today was the day,'' Mr. Wolman said.
 With profits shrinking fast, newspapers are grasping for the formula that will ensure survival, and a few have decided to save on printing and distribution by publishing only on the most profitable days of the week -- potentially a step toward an all-digital future. The Detroit papers are not going quite that far, but clearly the impetus is the same. Executives have called it a calculated gamble, but they say that Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays account for more than 80 percent of their advertising revenue.
 About 50,000 people tried to click on the e-editions Monday, five times as many as usual, said David Hunke, chief executive of the Detroit Media Partnership. And squeezing all of the day's news into a 32-page print edition ''certainly tested our theories on design and editing.''
 In a speech to the Detroit Economic Club on Monday, Mr. Hunke presented a strategy for winning readers electronically. The papers will soon be available on Amazon's Kindle reader and, possibly by early next year, on another device from a company called Plastic Logic, said Mr. Hunke, who is also the publisher of The Free Press, which is owned by the Gannett Company.
 Despite the added demand and confusion, it probably worked to the papers' benefit that the new strategy began with a crush of news, said Bob Giles, who held Mr. Wolman's posts in the 1990s and is now curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University. ''It reminds people how valuable their newspapers are, even if it's online,'' he said.
 The future no doubt lies in that direction, but for now, it is a tough sell for some readers of a certain age.
 Howard Waxer, 60, dropped his longtime Free Press subscription in anticipation of losing seven-day delivery and said he would not read online. He leafed through The Free Press while eating a club sandwich at Country Oven Family Dining restaurant in Berkley and said this would be his approach from now on -- pick up a copy and read it over lunch.
 ''There's always going to be this,'' he said, holding up the paper. ''I can't picture this city without a paper coming out.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about the first day of a new economic strategy by Detroit's two major newspapers to cut home delivery to three days a week misidentified a man shown distributing newspapers. He is Bob Kroll, not Jason Watson. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Detroit's daily newspapers cut back on their home distribution on Monday. Jason Watson, 24, handing out free copies of truncated print versions of the two papers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Delivery boxes stood idle Monday as newspaper readers in the Detroit area were directed to the smaller, free publications.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); BRAIN INJURIES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); BRAIN (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1256 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Amid Swaths of Greed, Pockets of Benevolence Persist

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
No one needs any more signs that the economy is in miserable shape. Nonetheless, one particular sign caught our attention. It was taped to the front window of a no-name clothing outlet store in Greenwich Village, on Bleecker Street just east of Seventh Avenue South.
 ''Madoff's Victims Sale,'' it said. ''Take an extra 20 percent off if your name made the Madoff's list.'' 
 The reference, of course, was to what some call Swindler's List: the roster of organizations and people who fell prey to the Ponzi schemer with the creepy smile, Bernard L. Madoff.
 Could it be that platoons of victims, suddenly standing closer to penury than they ever dreamed was possible, have descended on Bleecker Street in search of bargains at a discount shop where the prices are already knocked down?
 The short answer is no. Madoff victims have not exactly swarmed to this outlet. In the two weeks or so since the sign went up, store managers say, three people have taken advantage of the discount. All were women. Combined, they bought dresses for a total of about $300. One woman in her mid-30s said she had lost $7 million in the swindle, according to Lamberto Domenici, who sat behind the cash register.
 ''Obviously, some of the top losers will never come here,'' Mr. Domenici said. ''But anyone who wants to come and claim the discount, they're more than welcome to.''
 A cynic -- never us, to be sure -- might wonder if an eye-catching sign was simply a device to lure customers. It is not entirely an outlandish suggestion, Mr. Domenici acknowledged. ''But it's a great thing if you can help somebody in the process,'' he said. A colleague at the store, Rocco Launi, chimed in: ''This is done from the heart. It's not done for publicity.''
 But in this city the heart is a wary hunter. Before giving those customers their discounts, Mr. Domenici checked them out on Web-posted lists of Madoff victims.
 Trust but verify, as Ronald Reagan used to say. Carlos Vasquez, who runs a small dry-cleaning shop on East 72nd Street, understands that completely.
 We wrote about Mr. Vasquez five years ago. His store, First Professional Inc., was around the corner then, on Second Avenue. He had put a sign in his front window saying, with not-quite-perfect grammar, ''If you are unemployed and need an outfit clean for a interview, we will clean it for free.''
 Back then, that neighborhood had been disproportionately hurt by a double whammy: an economic slump early in the decade, then the Sept. 11 attacks. A one-time freebie for job seekers was a way to ''give back to the community,'' Mr. Vasquez said.
 The offer continues, and he says that a burst of people are taking him up on it now that times are bad once again. Sixteen people showed up last week alone, some having heard of the free deal after The Daily News wrote about it.
 Mr. Vasquez prefers to have proof that a person is out of work. An unemployment check stub will do. Trust but verify. But as often as not, he said, he relies on instinct.
 ''This gentleman came in with his baby, and he took me up on the offer,'' Mr. Vasquez said. ''I just didn't have the heart to ask him for proof. So I let it go.''
 ''You just use discretion,'' he said. ''I had an older person come in, and she seemed like she wasn't being honest and was just taking advantage. But I don't have a lot of that. So I honored it with her. So what?''
 That was how Jeffrey Ruhalter felt as well. Mr. Ruhalter owns Jeffrey's Meats, a butcher shop in the Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side. ''I'm on the front lines, where you see what people have in their pockets and are trying to put food on the table,'' he said.
 To give some of those people a hand, he and other merchants are donating food that will be the makings of free dinners for 230 people Wednesday night at two restaurants in the neighborhood, Essex and Thor. As on Bleecker or 72nd Street, how can Mr. Ruhalter be sure he isn't being taken in by someone claiming falsely to be unemployed?
 ''I say they need some type of proof,'' he said. ''But at this point, you can look someone in the eyes and know. I haven't asked for a single piece of paper. Do I want to humiliate someone by having them show me their papers? I think they feel humiliated enough.''
 Maybe a few frauds will slip in, Mr. Ruhalter said. ''There's always someone, you know?'' 
 But ''it's part of the cost,'' he said. ''Now it's more than business. Now it's people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A clothing store in Greenwich Village advertised 20 percent off for customers whose names ''made the Madoff's List.'' Few have taken advantage of it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (79%); RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1257 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Suit Against UBS Dismissed

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A federal judge dismissed on Monday a closely watched lawsuit brought against UBS, the Swiss bank, by individual investors who said it had misled them when it sold them auction rate securities. 
 The judge, Lawrence M. McKenna of United States District Court in Manhattan, ruled that the investors were not entitled to continue their litigation because UBS had reached a $19.4 billion settlement in the matter in August with the Securities and Exchange Commission and regulators in several states. The bank agreed to buy back nearly that amount of securities as well as pay a fine.
 The investors, who filed their complaint in March 2008, asserted, as did federal and state regulators in their own lawsuit, that UBS had known that the market for the securities was collapsing amid the financial crisis. 
 UBS, the investors said, nonetheless promoted the securities widely and aggressively to individual investors at artificially inflated prices. The securities had previously been regarded as safe and as liquid as cash, but the collapse of the market for them left investors losing money and with holdings tied up indefinitely.
 The dismissal could mean that similar lawsuits against other banks might also be dismissed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1258 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: 92,000 Acres Sold in Adirondacks, With Protection Pledge

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
The Nature Conservancy has sold 92,000 acres of forest in the Adirondacks to a Danish pension fund as part of a long-term strategy to protect the land from development. 
 The pension fund, ATP, paid $32.8 million for the acreage. The fund will benefit from tax credits related to a planned New York State conservation easement on the land that prohibits development but allows recreation and logging under strict sustainable forestry standards. RMK Timberland Group will manage the land for the pension fund.
 Officials at the conservancy, an international nonprofit environmental group, said the transaction struck a balance between protection of wild lands and the region's economic interests. Not only will it maintain environmentally responsible logging operations, they said, but it will create the opportunity for moneymaking recreational uses in areas that have been closed to the public. 
 ''This is an extraordinary investment in the Adirondack economy by a world leader pension fund, and an affirmation of the viability of green investment in timber,'' said Michael T. Carr, executive director of the Adirondack chapter of the Nature Conservancy.
 The land is part of 161,000 acres in the Adirondacks, including mountain peaks, lakes, ponds, rivers, streams and a commercial forest, that the Nature Conservancy bought in 2007 from the Finch Paper company for $110 million to prevent it from being subdivided and developed by builders of houses and resorts. 
 As part of the 2007 deal, the conservancy agreed to allow logging to continue to supply wood to the Finch Paper mill in Glens Falls, N.Y., a fixture in the region since the 1800s that employs about 800 people.
 The logging operations, which Mr. Carr described as ''selective cutting'' of trees on less than 10 percent of the land, are considered sustainable -- meaning they would minimize harm to water quality and the wildlife habitat, among other requirements. 
 The state conservation easement will allow leases to fishing and hunting clubs to continue and will afford new access to areas where the public will be able to climb mountains, ski, ride snowmobiles and participate in other recreational activities. Building will be prohibited.
 Officials from many of the 27 towns that benefit economically from recreation and forestry operations in the area welcomed the purchase.
 ''By continuing the working force aspect of this land, there will be an ongoing economic benefit,'' said George Canon, supervisor of Newcomb, a town of 500.
 Of the 69,000 acres that remain in the Nature Conservancy's hands, 65,000 are intended for sale to the state. They would be incorporated into existing forest preserve in the Adirondack Park.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Logging will continue to supply a paper mill in Glens Falls. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLANT CONSERVATION (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RIVERS (71%); SNOWMOBILING (71%); LAKES (70%); SKIING (66%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1259 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: The Biggest of Puzzles Brought Down to Size

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
Ah, yes, $500 billion in bailout money here, a trillion in troubled asset purchases there. We taxpayers are getting so insouciant about the extraordinary figures being bandied about by the captains of finance these days, you'd think we were still the designated banker in one of those endless games of Monopoly we're sorry we suggested to our cousin Dan but he won't let us quit. Fine, fine, you smug little top hat with all four utilities. A trillion, a quintillion. You want that in pinks, greens, yellows or blues? 
 Grim though the economic spur may be, some scientists see a slim silver lining in the sudden newsiness of laughably large numbers. As long as the public is chatting openly about quantities normally expressed in scientific notation, they say, why not talk about what those numbers really mean? In fact, they shamelessly promote the benefits of quantitative and scientific reasoning generally. As they see it, anyone, no matter how post-scholastic or math allergic, can learn basic quantitative reasoning skills, and everyone would benefit from the effort -- be less likely to fall for vitamin hucksters, for example, or panic when their plane hits a bumpy patch. 
 One excellent way to start honing such skills is with a few so-called Fermi problems, named for Enrico Fermi, the physicist who delighted in tossing out the little mental teasers to his colleagues whenever they needed a break from building the atomic bomb. 
 Here is how it works. You take a monster of a ponder like, What is the total volume of human blood in the world? or, If you put all the miles that Americans drive every year end to end, how far into space could you travel? and you try to estimate what the answer might be. You resist your impulse to run away or imprecate. Instead, you look for a wedge into the problem, and then you calmly, systematically, break it down into edible bits. Importantly, you are not looking for an exact figure but rather a ballpark approximation, something that would be within an order of magnitude, or a factor of 10, of the correct answer. If you got the answer 900, for example, and the real answer is 200, you're good; if you got 9,000, or 20, you go back and try to find where you went astray.
 ''It's really just critical thinking, breaking down seemingly complicated problems into simpler problems,'' said John A. Adam, a professor of mathematics at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va. ''Once you get over the hurdle and realize that, good grief, any question can be answered to this level of precision, to the nearest power of 10, it's quite exciting, and you start looking for things to apply it to.'' 
 Dr. Adam and his colleague Lawrence Weinstein, a professor of physics, offer a wide and often amusing assortment of Fermi flexes in a book that just caught my eye, ''Guesstimation: Solving the World's Problems on the Back of a Cocktail Napkin'' (Princeton University Press, 2008). 
 So let's say you want to make a quickie estimate of the world's human blood supply, but you don't know how much blood an individual human holds. The authors suggest thinking about what happens when you donate blood. You're asked to give a pint of blood, which suggests this is a pretty safe quantity to lose. Let's put it at 10 percent of the body's total blood volume, bringing us up to 10 pints, or five quarts, per person. Multiply five quarts by six billion humans, and you get 30 billion quarts, or 7.5 billion gallons of blood. And just to give you a gut feel for that figure, the authors estimate what would happen if you poured all those gallons over Central Park: the square-mile incarnadine pool would be 50 feet deep. 
 On to the less macabre consideration of the great American road trip, vertically repurposed. How many miles does our autophilic nation compile each year? When I recently had the tires changed on my five-year-old car, the mechanic saw that my odometer read 30,000 miles and guffawed politely. Most people drive twice as much as you do, he said. O.K., 12,000 miles annually per car. And how many cars are we talking -- one for every two people? That comes to 150 million cars, times 12,000 miles, bringing us to roughly, um, two trillion miles. We are embarking on a serious space junket here, way beyond our favorite plutoid Pluto, at some three billion miles from Earth. A dozen years at this rate, and we'll make it to the nearest star.
 Dr. Weinstein points out that it's not all idle doodles. You can sully your napkin with plenty of topical estimates, too. Among his favorite examples is to consider how much cropland we would need if we decided to fuel our cars entirely with ethanol from corn. There's one piece of knowledge you need here, he acknowledged: that there are 30,000 calories in a gallon of gasoline. From there, you cruise. A car needs a gallon or two a day. You eat 2,000 to 3,000 calories a day. ''Your car uses 10 to 20 times as much energy a day as you do,'' he said. ''If we're going to fuel our cars with ethanol, we'll need 20 times more farmland, so it could be this is a bad idea.'' 
 Dr. Weinstein also thinks it's a bad idea to cede all personal agency to the Internet, and to argue that, why bother guesstimating when you can look it up on Google? ''I hate to tell you this, but not everything on the Web can be believed,'' he said. ''You need a bull sensor.'' Moreover, he said, the habit of sizing up the world can have an oddly grounding effect. ''It gets people out of a crisis mode of thinking,'' he said. 
 To further enhance one's quantitative prowess, Dr. Adam suggests translating amorphous figures into familiar terms. A million seconds, for example, is about 10 days, while a billion seconds amounts to some 32 years. And a trillion seconds ago, in circa 30,000 B.C., the last of the Neanderthals were betting the rent on a Powerball lottery, without bothering to consider the odds. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Basics column on Tuesday about using quantitative reasoning to find an approximate answer to complex problems, misstated the number of utilities in a game of Monopoly. It is two, not four. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (75%); PHYSICS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1260 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Changing Face of a Longtime Racing Town

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

DATELINE: MARTINSVILLE, Va. 

 BODY:
After he won at Martinsville Speedway on Sunday, Jimmie Johnson, the three-time defending Nascar champion, received a trophy symbolizing both the heritage and the heartache of Martinsville: a grandfather clock.
 When it was first awarded in 1964, the clock was manufactured at a factory in neighboring Ridgeway, the small town where the speedway is situated, and it was among the bounty of furniture and textile factories dotting the hillsides here in southern Virginia. Over the past decade, however, most of those factories closed or shrank, and 10,000 manufacturing jobs disappeared from the area.
 As those industries faded, Martinsville turned its hopes toward the increasingly profitable motorsports industry. With a track beloved by drivers and fans alike, community leaders sought to transform Martinsville into a miniature Charlotte, the hub of the racing industry. But despite the creation of two educational programs and statewide economic incentives for the motorsports industry, the effort has largely failed. Economic development officials say that they have shifted their attention to other pursuits and that motorsports are no longer a priority.
 Martinsville residents are given an economic reprieve two weekends a year, when the Sprint Cup series comes to town and visitors with license plates from states as far away as Wisconsin fill hotels, pump gas and stock up on beer and potato chips. But when the crowds leave, the reality remains: the recession has only hastened Martinsville's decline. 
 In surrounding Henry County, 13 percent of the 55,000 residents do not have work. In Martinsville, home to 15,000 people, unemployment has hit 18 percent. 
 ''There's really no sugarcoating it,'' said Mark Heath, president of the Martinsville-Henry County Economic Development Corporation. ''We're rebuilding an economy here.''
 As the oldest track in the current Sprint Cup series, Martinsville is viewed by many as a link to the earliest days of the sport, when races were run on short dirt tracks and drivers were not afraid to lose a little paint as they scraped and bumped one another on the way to the finish line. The speedway, which opened in 1947, has persisted even as other small tracks, like Rockingham and North Wilkesboro in North Carolina, have been dropped from the Nascar schedule in favor of flashier sites in bigger cities. At a shade over a half-mile, the paper-clip-shaped track is the shortest in the series and seats just 65,000 people, less than half the capacity of a speedway like Daytona, which accommodates 168,000 spectators.
 Although Martinsville could lose one of its races if its parent company, International Speedway Corporation, builds a track in a bigger market like New York, W. Clay Campbell, president of Martinsville Speedway, said that was unlikely. ''I have no concern about losing a date,'' he said. 
 Losing a race would be a blow to the local and state economy. A study paid for by Martinsville Speedway and released last week estimates that the track generates $170 million a year in statewide revenue and contributes to the creation of close to 3,000 full-time jobs in Virginia. 
 Ramsey Poston, Nascar's managing director for corporate communications, described Martinsville as special to the sport and its fans. ''They don't play professional baseball in Cooperstown or at the Polo Grounds, but we're still racing at Martinsville,'' he said. ''It's a place that's treated with reverence, like any great historic sporting facility.''
 It was that heritage that economic development officials hoped to build on about six years ago. In Charlotte, less than 150 miles away, the motorsports industry was exploding as racing teams converged on the area, quickly followed by suppliers and other related companies. 
 In 2003, Virginia's governor at the time, Mark R. Warner, held a news conference at Martinsville Speedway to kick off a statewide initiative aimed at promoting the industry's growth in southern Virginia through grants and low-interest loans. A local college, the Patrick Henry Community College, opened a two-year motorsports program with the goal of creating a pool of skilled workers. 
 About 50 students are enrolled in the program, and the effort has attracted instructors with extensive Nascar experience, including Lou LaRosa, a former engine builder for Dale Earnhardt. Several graduates have landed coveted jobs in Nascar and on racing teams, according to Talmage Thomas, one of the instructors. 
 Many of those students, however, must leave the area because few motorsports companies have taken advantage of the incentives to relocate. An exception is HT Motorsports, a truck racing team that moved to Martinsville in 2004 from North Carolina. In January, it added a second driver, David Starr, to its team.
 John Connaughton, a professor of economics at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, said Martinsville faced a challenge because the motorsports industry had increasingly consolidated around Charlotte. ''There is a specialized labor pool here that you cannot replicate anyplace,'' Connaughton said of Charlotte. 
 He studied Charlotte's racing industry after Virginia and other states created motorsports initiatives. ''Our conclusion was that while they may be able to pick here and there, it's extremely unlikely that there's going to be any kind of functional shift in where racing cars are built,'' he said.
 In 2003, the Martinsville area lost an anchor of its small motorsports industry when Wood Brothers Racing moved from Stuart, a small town nearby, to the Charlotte area. And late last year, the truck team Bobby Hamilton Racing, which was based in the same complex as the community college program, closed after it reportedly could not attract enough sponsors. 
 Thomas and other instructors said their students graduated from the motorsports program with skills that translated beyond a job in Nascar. The Martinsville area is home to several other types of racing. Eight short tracks and four drag strips are less than two hours away. 
 ''You're teaching a skill,'' said Danny Glad, an instructor who also works as the head of research and development for Dodge engines at Arrington Manufacturing, a Martinsville company that transforms factory-issue engine blocks into racing-level machines. The company employs about 20 people. ''You teach them critical thinking, working with your hands. It will apply to other aspects of their lives.''
 But several students said they planned to pursue their dreams in Nascar racing, even if it meant leaving the area. 
 ''I know for sure I'm going to go out of town,'' said Michael Hunley, 35, who enrolled in the program after being laid off from Stanley Furniture in 2007. ''You just can't find it around here.''
 Although their efforts have borne little fruit, officials continue to invest in motorsports. In 2008, the Virginia state legislature approved the issuance of more than $8 million in bonds to build a 30,000-square-foot instructional facility at Patrick Henry Community College. A four-year program at New College Institute, created in partnership with Old Dominion University, will focus on motorsports engineering and is just getting under way. President Obama visited Martinsville in August, holding a town hall meeting at Patrick Henry's motorsports facility. 
 But state and local economic development officials said in interviews that they had recently shifted strategies. ''Building a new economic development strategy solely around the racetrack is probably not doable,'' said Liz Povar, director of business development for the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. ''We've got to have an integrated strategy.''
 Heath said that motorsports was now just one of several niche industries that his office hoped to promote. He points instead to a deal reached last year with RTI International Metals, a titanium producer, to build a $100 million factory in Martinsville. The facility is scheduled to open in 2010 and provide 150 jobs, Heath said. Compared with the furniture and textiles factories that once employed thousands, the victory may seem minor. 
 ''It's been a little hard here because everybody wants the good old days,'' Heath said. ''And those jobs went away, and they're not coming back in the way they were when they left.'' 
 He and others said local governments were making progress by transforming old factories into office spaces and upgrading the area's infrastructure. 
 Change isn't coming quickly enough for many residents, though. 
 Steve Hagwood was laid off two weeks ago from his job as a machine technician at CP Films, a maker of window-tinting film. He was one of 90 people let go by the company this year. ''They gave us some training, but now, how the economy is, we really don't have nowhere to go,'' said Hagwood, who is married, owns a home and is father to a 9-year-old girl. 
 As for Jimmie Johnson's new grandfather clock, it will soon take its place alongside the five others he has won. He keeps one in his office and the rest in a warehouse, he said on Friday. ''I've built a special spot for them and have lights shining on them, and they look really good,'' he said. 
 Other than its tie to the speedway, the clock no longer has much to do with Martinsville. 
 In 2004, the Howard Miller Clock Company purchased the company that made the clocks locally. A year later, it moved production to its headquarters in Michigan. In 2007, the company closed its Ridgeway factory and laid off the 70 remaining employees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jimmie Johnson (48) won the Goody's Fast Pain Relief 500 on Sunday in Martinsville, Va., a town that has built its economy around Nascar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Clockwise from top left, engines waiting to be shipped at a local company
a mall's empty storefronts
a bowling alley's efforts to attract visitors
and a college student in a motorsports program. Below, souvenir vendors at the track. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B12)
 The campground at Martinsville Speedway last weekend. When a race comes to town, the local economy gets a reprieve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); NASCAR RACING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RECESSION (76%); TEXTILE MFG (72%); TEXTILE MILLS (72%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (84%)

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (84%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (84%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1261 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Junkets

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
The travel industry, hit hard by the public uproar over lavish company getaways, has been pushing back, and its message is essentially this: You say junket, we say jobs. 
 In a lobbying effort spearheaded by the U.S. Travel Association, industry representatives have met with President Obama, released a flurry of statistics about the economic contribution of meetings and events ($101 billion in spending, one million jobs) and have even established a ''rapid-response war room'' to address ''false accusations against legitimate travel activities.''
 ''It's causing a huge unintended consequence -- namely, all those organizations that have received government assistance, and many that haven't, are canceling meetings like crazy because they don't want to be seen as excessive,'' said Roger Dow, president and chief executive of the travel association. 
 The public anger started to rise last fall, when the American International Group held a luxury retreat for employees shortly after getting $85 billion in bailout funds. Since then, banks that received federal money have found themselves in the cross hairs. 
 According to the travel association's survey of hotel companies representing a fifth of the market, $220 million in room revenue was lost in January and February from event cancellations. Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide said it has booked 40 percent less group revenue at its company-operated hotels so far in 2009, which has meant eliminating 6,000 employees, a 10 percent cut in staff.
 ''Our cancellations are up 50 percent,'' said Frits van Paasschen, Starwood's president and chief executive. ''And when a group cancels, they leave a considerable amount of money on the table.''
 The travel industry is lobbying against a Senate measure that limits ''luxury'' spending for corporate travel by companies that have received federal bailout money. And it has been working with the Treasury Department, which, as part of the bailout legislation, has been asked to determine what qualifies as an ''excessive'' or ''luxury'' expenditure.
 ''If there's steak served at a meeting, is that excessive?'' Mr. Dow asked. ''If there's golf, is that excessive? It's a matter of how you define excess.''
 Toward that end, the U.S. Travel Association and other industry groups have come up with their own guidelines on how to make sure events serve legitimate business objectives.
 These are among their suggestions: requiring a written business case for events that cost more than $75,000, making sure that at least 90 percent of those attending incentive programs are not senior executives from the host organization and -- for events attended only by top executives or board members -- requiring participants to pay for ''nonbusiness-related activities.'' 
 ''These guidelines are the very, very broad basis of smart meetings management,'' said Bill Connors, executive director of the National Business Travel Association, which helped write the document. ''A big component is, does the meeting have a purpose for the corporation?''
 One question raised by the industry's campaign is how much of the business they are losing is the result of the ''A.I.G. effect'' as opposed to companies simply cutting back on spending.
 As evidence that perception is playing a role in decisions about whether and where to hold a meeting, Mr. van Paasschen of Starwood cited clients who had shifted events from Las Vegas to more expensive destinations like San Francisco. When meetings do take place, discretion is the new mandate.
 ''We had a group meeting at one of our hotels, and our client didn't want the name of their firm on their name tags,'' he said. At another event, he said, extra security was hired to keep journalists away.
 Luxury hotels have been hit especially hard. Bill Marriott, chairman and chief executive of Marriott International, gave one example in a recent entry on his blog: 32 event cancellations at the Ritz-Carlton, Half Moon Bay in California in the last four months.
 But a comment posted by one reader captures just how conflicted many people feel about companies spending money on luxurious travel when they are cutting staff.
 ''As a Marriott shareholder, I want to see our hotels and resorts full,'' wrote Hank Mancini, a manager for a medical device company in Irvine, Calif. ''On the other hand, it does not seem reasonable to me for a business to spend on something that is not necessary if employees are being laid off or having benefits reduced.'' 
 One of the areas most likely to be deemed unnecessary is incentive travel -- trips to resort destinations that reward top-performing staff or a firm's best clients. 
 Christine Duffy, president and chief executive of Maritz Travel, which plans these types of events for clients, said her company lost nearly $150 million in revenue because of canceled programs from mid-October to Jan. 1 -- 23 percent of its annual revenue.
 ''What we've never seen before is this A.I.G. effect, where people are just outright canceling programs,'' she said.
 Ms. Duffy said most incentive trips were not for senior-level executives and did not involve Super Bowl-type events. Rather, she said, many involve independent sales agents for companies like automotive dealers or kitchen cabinet manufacturers, and she argued that they did have measurable benefits in terms of product sales, employee loyalty and customer retention.
 ''These trips have been a mainstay of lots and lots of businesses,'' Ms. Duffy said. ''Unfortunately, I think it's something that's not well understood by the general public.''
 While the benefits of some events can be difficult to measure, there is research supporting the case for incentive travel.
 Scott Jeffrey, an assistant professor of management sciences at the University of Waterloo in Canada, has found that incentive trips pay off in terms of increased employee loyalty, lower turnover and better performance.
 ''The real thing that these travel events do for employees is show them that they're valued,'' Mr. Jeffrey said. ''And at the end of the day, that's what you want -- employees who are committed to the organization. If they're only committed to the paycheck, they can be bought away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Preparing for a biotechnology industry conference, Pooran Ramkissoon set out candy bowls at the Sheraton Boston on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESORTS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (67%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); HOT (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (67%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); FRITS D VAN PAASSCHEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1262 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: On to Detroit, With Michigan State Leading the Cheers

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
The Final Four guaranteed one thing: four sets of tourists excited about going to Detroit. One, however, is less a tourist and more a local.
 After Michigan State celebrated an upset of Louisville that was surprising in outcome and stunning in tenor, Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo told the gathered crowd: ''Detroit, here we come. I can't tell you how much I'm looking forward to that.''
 In addition to securing his fifth Final Four appearance in 11 years, Michigan State's victory could have had some unintended consequences. 
 Izzo most likely secured his legacy as the best N.C.A.A. tournament coach of this generation. And along the way he made himself a good-guy foil to Connecticut's embattled coach, Jim Calhoun. 
 There are plenty of story lines in this Final Four, a diverse and somewhat surprising group that will feature Connecticut versus Michigan State and North Carolina versus Villanova. An N.C.A.A. tournament in which favorites dominated the first two weeks produced a few back-door surprises in its final weekend, including the Spartans' dismantling of Louisville and Villanova's mad dash to the Final Four. 
 Mix that with Michigan State's contribution to the scalpers' ticket market and the buzz about coaching vacancies at Kentucky, Arizona, Georgia and Virginia, and there should be enough to quell any complaints about Detroit as a Final Four destination. 
 Here are a few of the stories to watch: 
 MICHIGAN STATE Izzo's players may not be recognizable to the casual fan, and the jersey sales of Sunday's first-half hero, Goran Suton, were most likely not bustling before the regionals. But Michigan State's grunt-and-shove style looks familiar, similar to that of the Spartans team that Mateen Cleaves and Mo Peterson led to the national title in 2000. 
 Izzo has long been a blue-collar hero in Michigan, both for the way his teams play and for his resistance to overtures from N.B.A. teams. And rest assured, this weekend will offer plenty of hosannas to a good-guy coach who almost always manages to do more with less. 
 CONNECTICUT Although Connecticut has a good chance to win the title, the program has been shaken. The potential of this being Calhoun's final season will hang in the air all week. His program has seemingly been caught red-handed for rules violations in the recruiting of Nate Miles and Ater Majok, as detailed in an investigative report by Yahoo Sports. Calhoun has also had health problems and spent the first round in the hospital. 
 On that front, Detroit provides a bizarre backdrop for the Huskies because a central figure in the UConn inquiry, the former team manager turned agent Josh Nochimson, was accused last year by Richard Hamilton, the former UConn and current Pistons star, of stealing about $1 million from him. Hamilton, who led Connecticut to its first national title, was probably not pleased that his former coaches were still dealing with Nochimson after the accusations. 
 The other key question is if the N.C.A.A. can actually enforce its rules in a high-profile investigation. Recent precedent in the cases of the former Southern California stars Reggie Bush and O. J. Mayo suggests otherwise. The Bush case, which began nearly three years ago, is becoming the N.C.A.A. equivalent of O. J. Simpson's search for the real killers. 
 NORTH CAROLINA The Tar Heels are the best team in college basketball, just as they were billed at the beginning of the season. They have discovered consistency on defense, something that fluctuated during the regular season. But the Tar Heels held Oklahoma to 2-of-19 shooting on 3-pointers in a 72-60 victory that was not actually that close. 
 If the Heels can get by Villanova, a matchup with Connecticut would be a television ratings bonanza because they are two of college basketball's biggest brand names and the most talented teams here. Coach Roy Williams is seeking his second national title and will be a heavy favorite to win it. That is thanks to Ty Lawson, whose troublesome toe has healed. He has emerged as the program's best and most valuable player. The Tar Heels showed just how deep and talented they are by rolling Oklahoma while their star forward Tyler Hansbrough scored only 8 points. 
 VILLANOVA The Wildcats are the wild card. They are carrying the vibe of 1985, when Rollie Massimino's team sailed into the Final Four as a No. 8 seed and stunned everyone by toppling mighty Georgetown in the national title game. 
 Few expected these Wildcats to be here either, although, as Coach Jay Wright is quick to point out, they finished fourth in the beefed-up Big East this season. None of the Wildcats project as first-round picks, but they play well together and can stymie teams with tough perimeter defense. 
 But clobbering Duke and U.C.L.A. is one thing. Doing it to North Carolina is another. 
 And the final story line this week is Detroit itself. The news on Sunday that the White House had pushed out the chief executive of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, as a condition of more government aid to the company was the latest sign of the city's economic woes. 
 With thousands of fans heading to Detroit, the games could provide a pick-me-up. And there is the benefit of low expectations. All year, the cries from coaches, fans and the news media have been the same: Couldn't the N.C.A.A. have picked a city with a warmer climate? More nightlife? A better hotel set-up? 
 Izzo's economic stimulus package will give Detroit and college coaches something to cheer about this week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); BASKETBALL (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (95%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1263 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'CUPID'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: A God Fully Loaded Looks For Love

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Because any extended analysis of ''Cupid,'' a new series beginning on Tuesday on ABC, could threaten to keep you from watching reruns of ''The Real Housewives of New York City'' or doing anything else vital to the national conversation, I'm going to keep this brief. In 1998, during the high-flying years of the Clinton administration, when the Dow fixed a happy smiley face on so many, ABC had a show called ''Cupid'' that starred Jeremy Piven as a guy who believed he was the Roman god of love fallen to earth. Though the series lasted only 15 episodes, there are those who followed it with a certain devotion, and presumably they have been bereaved by its absence ever since.
 ''Cupid'' 2009 is a simulation: same idea, same creator (Rob Thomas), different cast. In a statement ABC said it felt the ''zeitgeist'' was now better suited to the series's themes. I can only take that to mean that global economic crisis is supposed to leave us more susceptible to network inanities. 
 The failure of ''Valentine,'' which ran on CW last fall, also about gods of classical mythology matchmaking in the modern world, would seem to have already invalidated this thesis. Mercifully, ''Valentine'' vanished after a few episodes, though it is worth noting that even comparatively superior attempts at dissecting urban love (''Lipstick Jungle,'' ''The Ex-List'') have been unable to find an audience recently.
 The revised ''Cupid'' is set in present-day Manhattan, and in this context Cupid is calling himself Trevor Pierce and insisting that he has been sent to live among the mortals by Zeus, who has directed him to bring 100 couples together before he can return to Mount Olympus. (I'm still unclear on why Cupid, ostensibly Roman, is taking orders from the Greeks, but until I figure it out, I'm sticking with the idea that there were dire complications in the passport office.) 
 At any rate, Cupid appears to be stymied in his efforts to forge romantic affiliations. ''One hundred couples?'' he says. ''I used to pull that off before lunch.''
 Cupid/Trevor is played here by Bobby Cannavale (''Will & Grace''). The joke is supposed to be his utter lack of effeteness: he looks like someone who might be trying to find you a can of motor oil. Refusing to buy whatever it is he is selling, at least for the first few nanoseconds, is Dr. Claire McCrae (Sarah Paulson), a psychiatrist and self-help author who tries to unravel his apparent madness by assigning him to a singles' group she oversees. In her circle of misfits eccentricity means forgetting -- whoops! -- to cite a chastity pledge in one's personal ad. 
 Sticking with ''Cupid'' requires a certain attachment to the idea of a Claire-Trevor love connection, one apparent only in moody glances and pronounced opposition rather than in even the faintest semblance of chemistry. In any other series Claire and Trevor would go out for a hot dog once and realize that they were actually much better off with their respective exes. 
 It won't surprise you to learn that Claire is a rationalist and one-woman army fighting the belief that it is possible to fall in love in line at Whole Foods, while Trevor is intent on sending storm troopers right over her coarsened psyche. Love at first sight is a myth, and too often so is the idea that revivals are worth it.
 CUPID
 ABC, Tuesday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
 Created and written by Rob Thomas; Mr. Thomas, Jennifer Gwartz, Danielle Stokdyk, Dan Etheridge and Diane Ruggiero, executive producers. Produced by ABC Studios.
 WITH: Bobby Cannavale (Trevor), Sarah Paulson (Claire), Rick Gomez (Felix), Camille Guaty (Lita), Sean Maguire (Dave), Marguerite Moreau (Madelyn), Ty Jones (Isaac), Austin Pendleton (Dr. Boyd) and Gloria Votsis (Holly).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bobby Cannavale, on a perch, looms above Rick Gomez, left, Camille Guaty and Sarah Paulson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB D'AMICO/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYTHOLOGY (75%); CLASSICS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Cupid (TV Program); Cupid (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1264 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: IN DETROIT, FINAL FOUR IS A GROWTH INDUSTRY

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
From one point of view, the Final Four in Detroit is an ambitious enterprise, set in an N.F.L. stadium (Ford Field) with more than 70,000 seats available and a chance to host the best-attended championship game in history. 
 From another, it is a huge risk: the local economy is in tatters, and there is the prospect that many of those 70,000-plus seats could be empty.
 No one knows how it will play out, but the consensus is that Michigan State's presence will be a boost. The Spartans and their driving-distance fans make a sellout possible.
 The N.C.A.A.'s lottery of about 20,000 tickets to the public was its largest ever and sold out, a spokesman said. The rest of the ticket distribution breaks down as follows: 23 percent to the participating teams (3,750 per university, 15,000 total); 10 percent to the local host committee; 6 percent to the National Association of Basketball Coaches; 5 percent to CBS and its partners; 7 percent to Division I athletic directors and 21 percent to the N.C.A.A., to distribute to its corporate partners, committee members and others.
 Detroit is hoping to top the record for a title-game crowd: 64,959 watched the 1987 final in the Superdome in New Orleans.
 According to officials at the ticket reseller StubHub, this will be the least expensive Final Four ticket the company has handled, because of the economy, the huge supply of tickets and Detroit's limited drawing power as a destination.
 As of Monday, its tickets were listed for an average price of $437 -- which the spokesman Sean Pate said jumped almost $40 in the hours after Michigan State advanced -- compared with last year's $655 average at San Antonio's Alamodome. The least expensive Final Four ticket on StubHub was, on average, $578 in 2007 in Atlanta.
 Ford Field already holds the record for most-attended college basketball game: 78,129 watched a regular-season game between Michigan State and Kentucky in 2003.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1265 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Ad Sales Up On Internet, But '08 Pace Was Slower

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Internet advertising rose in 2008, according to a report released Monday, but the growth is starting to flatten.
 ''The economy has had a significant impact on the short-term growth of the Internet advertising market,'' David Silverman, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, which contributed to the report, said in a conference call. 
 Internet advertising in the United States grew to $23.4 billion in 2008, an increase of 10.6 percent from 2007, according to the Internet Advertising Revenue Report from the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade group representing online advertisers, as well as PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 That was the only category of advertising spending that grew in 2008 other than cable television, which rose 7.8 percent, according to Nielsen figures supplied for the report.
 Over all, total non-Internet media revenue declined 2.4 percent in 2008 from 2007, according to Nielsen. Spending in network television declined 3.5 percent, in national magazines 7.6 percent and in local newspapers 7.8 percent.
 Though overall growth was strong relative to other mediums, Internet advertising did not have the large increases of recent years.
 Internet revenue dipped in the first and second quarters for the first time in four years. And online advertising in 2008 had the lowest growth rate -- 2.6 percent -- from the fourth quarter compared with the period a year earlier. 
 As Mr. Silverman said, however, ''it's one of the few things that actually grew in the fourth quarter 2008.''
 There were some interesting shifts within Internet advertising. 
 Digital video revenue more than doubled in 2008 versus 2007, growing to $734 million from $324 million. Advertisers were also more frequently using performance-based ads -- where they pay only when someone clicks on the ad or buys something after seeing the ad. 
 Performance-based ads made up 57 percent of all Internet advertising in 2008, according to the report, up from 51 percent in 2007. Ads that were paid for based on how frequently they were shown -- called C.P.M.-based pricing, for cost-per-thousand -- fell to 39 percent, from 45 percent. 
 Sponsorship advertising, where publishers create custom pages and advertisements for brands, was less popular this year than last: it fell to 1 percent of all fourth-quarter revenue in 2008, down from 3 percent in 2007.
 Online advertising from consumer-packaged goods companies was a big growth area, rising to $1.5 billion in 2008, up from $925 million in 2007. That was significant, said Peter S. Fader, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania who participated in the conference call.
 That was ''something that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago. People didn't think this would be the right space to be selling grocery-type products,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE ADVERTISING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PACKAGED GOODS (60%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (60%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERACTIVE ADVERTISING BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1266 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Staying Put On Earth, Taking a Step To Mars

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
On Tuesday, six people will be voluntarily locked into a cloister of cramped, hermetically sealed tubes woven inside a Moscow research facility the size of a high school gymnasium. They will eat dehydrated food, breathe recycled air and be denied conversation with practically everyone else but one another. 
 And they must stay inside for 105 days. 
 In a small step in the direction of Mars, the international crew is embarking on a simulated flight to the planet to test the limits of human tolerance for the isolation and monotony of interplanetary travel. 
 ''It is really like a real space flight without the weightlessness and the danger to our lives,'' said Sergei N. Ryazansky, a cosmonaut-in-training who will lead the mission. ''On the inside, we will have a lack of incoming information, so it's the science of sensory deprivation.''
 Called Mars-500, the Russian-led project based at the Institute for Biomedical Problems here will culminate in a 520-day simulation beginning early next year of a complete manned mission to the planet -- a time frame that incorporates launching to Mars touchdown and back -- that scientists hope will edge humanity a little closer to that next giant leap.
 An actual manned mission to Mars may be more than 20 years away, but Russian scientists, backed by the nation's leaders, are keen to take a lead role in laying the foundation. The Mars-500 project is moving forward despite the dire economic situation in Russia; the prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, has pledged not to cut financing to the space industry. 
 Russia's research into manned space flights has taken on added importance as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the United States prepares to shut down the space shuttle program, leaving Russia with a monopoly on manned launchings until NASA's new Ares rockets take flight. 
 But for scientists and cosmonauts involved in the project, the cosmic competition that defined the cold war and the race to the Moon has given way to a new spirit of international cooperation. In addition to Russian space agencies, the Mars-500 project involves scientists from organizations like the European Space Agency and the National Space Biomedical Research Institute based in Houston. 
 ''We are proud that we have an experiment that has received wide international coverage and that has attracted the top scientists of other countries,'' said Mark S. Belakovsky, the project's deputy director. ''We are working not only for ourselves but for the future of humanity.''
 Mr. Belakovsky and others working on the project say only an international effort will be able to overcome the daunting obstacles to any future manned mission to Mars. Crews must be protected from hazardous radiation and muscle and bone atrophy caused by long-term weightlessness, not to mention the myriad potential pitfalls that will follow that first step onto Mars. 
 Protecting crews from themselves, however, poses special challenges. 
 Interplanetary travel will markedly differ from long-term missions in orbit around Earth, where crews remain in contact with mission control, receiving assistance from specialists on the ground and well wishes from family and friends. On a mission to Mars, astronauts will have to contend with communication gaps of as long as 20 minutes. 
 ''Working in such conditions requires that a person be able to check himself, evaluate his condition in relation to the crew and in relation to mission control and be able to correct himself,'' said Boris V. Marukov, the experiment's director and a former crew member on the International Space Station. ''He will be a psychotherapist for himself.''
 Despite the risks and expense, many scientists think the potential scientific gains from a manned Mars voyage will outweigh the advantages of interplanetary exploration by robots. 
 ''Unless there is a huge breakthrough in artificial intelligence, having the human being on site, being able to make scientific decisions on the fly, in real time -- there is really little substitute for that,'' said Jim Logan, a former chief of medical operations at Johnson Space Center in Houston. 
 The longest a human has spent in space is 438 days, a record set by Valery V. Polyakov when he returned from the Russian space station, Mir, in 1995. His safe and healthy return, he said in an interview, showed that ''it is possible to preserve your physical and psychological health throughout a mission similar in length to a flight to Mars and back.'' 
 Volunteers for the first leg of Mars-500 -- four Russians, a German and a Frenchman -- will oversee and participate in more than 70 experiments testing fluctuations in metabolism, sleep-wake cycles and the cardiovascular and immune systems under conditions of prolonged isolation. Another experiment will study cross-cultural compatibility in the expectation that any real Mars mission will involve an international crew.
 The mock spacecraft consists of four hermetically sealed modules built in the 1970s for isolation experiments ahead of missions aboard Soviet space stations and later the International Space Station. A section was recently added in which participants in the 520-day experiment will simulate a Mars landing.
 The facility's wood-paneled interior maintains a particularly Soviet aesthetic, but it has been equipped with new life-support systems to be tested during the Mars-500 project. Volunteers will tend experimental greenhouses that scientists hope will provide fresh vegetables and sights and smells of home. 
 Scientists in a control center at the Institute of Biomedical Problems will monitor the activities of the crew via video cameras mounted in most sections of the facility, watching for stress and tension among crewmembers. They will largely keep out of the crew's affairs and will impose the 20-minute communication delay anticipated on a real Mars mission during the final 35 days of the experiment. 
 Amid a stream of mock emergency situations and inevitable disagreements between crewmates, the volunteers will endeavor to keep emotional control. 
 Past experiments in long-term isolation have shown how intergroup conflicts can endanger a mission. During a nine-month simulated Earth-orbit mission starting in 1999 and conducted at the same Moscow institute, a male Russian's attempt to kiss a female Canadian colleague ended in accusations of sexual harassment and the Russians' being barred from the woman's module. 
 Mr. Ryazansky, who took part in that experiment, is optimistic that advancements in space psychology have made these kinds of conflicts less likely. And while he does not think he will actually ever fly to Mars, he believes his work on Mars-500 will allow him at least to see a manned mission in his lifetime. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE INSIDE: One of the common areas in the Mars-500 experiment. Each crew member has a bedroom compartment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BIOMEDICINE (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); SPACE SHUTTLE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) MARS (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1267 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: A Pitched Battle for Turf Between the Bears and the Bulls

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Time to buy stocks. No, wait -- time to sell them. 
 The bulls and the bears never agree. But what is remarkable is that the rift between these two Wall Street camps seems to be widening. 
 This month, after the stock market staged one of its biggest rallies since the Depression, optimists like Douglas A. Kass, a prominent hedge fund manager, buzzed that the worst was over. Finally, after a 401(k)-busting, 7,722-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average, the stock market seemed to be escaping bear territory, the bulls argued. 
 Investors who in recent weeks snapped up oil and technology stocks, as well as beaten-down financial shares like Citigroup, have made a lot of money, at least on paper. They hope that some less-than-awful numbers from the housing and industrial sectors signal that the global recession is scraping bottom.
 To some, stocks are irresistibly cheap right now. The price-to-earnings ratio on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is 12 to 13, lower than its historical average of closer to 17. 
 But the bears are unbowed. Skeptics like Robert L. Rodriguez, another money manager, argue that the March gains were nothing more than a suckers' rally -- a brief respite before another, even bigger roar of the bear market. 
 They point out that rallies have fizzled before. The S.& P. soared 24 percent between late November and early January, only to lose all those gains -- and more -- as it tumbled to a 12-year low on March 9. 
 The bears seemed to regain the upper hand on Monday. Wall Street opened to news that Morgan Stanley was advising investors to start selling again to lock in their recent profits, and it continued its spill as investors fretted about the management change at General Motors. The Dow slumped 254.16 points, or 3.3 percent, to 7,522.02. That followed a 1.9 percent decline on Friday. 
 The broader S.& P. fell 3.5 percent, or 28.4 points, to 787.53, and oil fell while the price of safe-haven Treasury bonds rose, pushing the yields on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.71 percent.
 With so much uncertainty -- over the fate of banks and Detroit carmakers, over the entire economy -- this tug of war is not over. Mr. Kass and Mr. Rodriguez make their cases below. They cannot both be right.
 At the beginning of 2008, Mr. Kass, known as a short-seller, saw more trouble coming and bet against the stock market. But now, he says he thinks stocks have hit a definitive bottom, and he said he was buying.
 ''I've been a bear for three years,'' said Mr. Kass, general partner of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Fla. ''This is a big change for me.'' 
 Mr. Kass said the March lows would not just represent the lowest points of the year, but ''possibly a generational low.''
 Last week, he wrote a note, ''Why the Bears Are Wrong,'' that tallied a host of hopeful conditions in the economy and the financial system.
 He saw potential in the Obama administration's plan to buy $500 billion to $1 trillion in troubled assets from banks using a blend of public and private money. If it works, the move could take the strain off the banks' struggling balance sheets and loosen credit markets, Mr. Kass said. 
 Many analysts have said that financial companies, which plunged the markets into crisis, will be the ones to lead the way to higher ground, and Mr. Kass said he was cheered to see big banks leading the March rally. The S.& P. Financials Index rose 33 percent from March 9 through Monday, while the broader S.& P. 500 gained 16 percent.
 Commodity prices for metals and oil began to rise, signaling a hint of inflation and a chance that economic growth could find a foothold, he said. And he said he was encouraged by a bouquet of better-than-expected reports from the housing and retail sectors.
 Given the speed of the rally, however, Mr. Kass wrote a note on Friday saying that investors might seize the opportunity to raise cash and take profits. But he said he was still convinced that ''the U.S. stock market will rise to levels higher than most anticipate,'' by as much as 25 percent by summer.
 Mr. Kass said he liked companies like Home Depot, Lowe's, the Walt Disney Company and real estate investment trusts.
 Even optimistic investors warn that a recovery in stocks will not look like a steady climb, and they say that economic growth may be slow for some time. But as stocks have picked back up, Mr. Kass said, he has noticed a new concern among investors.
 ''The fear of being out has begun to replace the fear of being in,'' he said.
 What optimists do not understand, says Mr. Rodriguez, chief executive of First Pacific Advisors, is that the United States is being profoundly reshaped by this recession.
 ''We've crossed over into a new financial era,'' he said. ''You don't know what the ground rules are. You don't even know what the shape of the playing field is.''
 Economic growth may be stagnant for years, even after the economy hits bottom. Corporate profits may not bounce back. And the high hopes for recovery that have helped drive stocks higher this month may yet crumble.
 Stock markets rose 10 percent or more several times during the Depression, the early 1970s and other downturns, only to lose their momentum and give back months of gains. As bearish experts warn, market bottoms come only when investors give up hope of ever seeing a bottom.
 ''This rally that's going on may prove ephemeral,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''I still think we have a very long, arduous journey ahead of us.''
 The Capital fund that Mr. Rodriguez manages for First Pacific, which is slightly lower for the year and down 42 percent since last March, is now making heavy bets on energy companies. He is betting oil prices will creep back to $100 a barrel or more as long-term production declines.
 As the recession drags on, American consumers, who powered the economy for decades, will rediscover the notion of thrift, Mr. Rodriguez said.
 The personal saving rate, which skidded to zero as Americans tapped their home equity to finance their lifestyles, rebounded to 4.2 percent in February, the government reported last week. Historically, Americans have saved 6 to 8 percent of their income, and the more they pile into savings accounts, the less they will give to a range of corporations.
 Mr. Rodriguez said there were too many question marks around earnings to convince him that the recent market rally would stick. 
 ''The stock market will be very volatile, and corporate profitability will be very volatile,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''There are large segments of the United States economy that will never come back.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: SIGNIFICANT RALLIES IN THE LAST BEAR MARKET: After the technology bubble burst, the Dow staged at least three major rallies before bottoming out in Oct. 2002. A few months later it would begin a sustained climb toward its record high in Oct. 2007. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.B1)
THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press: Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); RECESSION (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1268 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KNITZER, DR

 BODY:
KNITZER--Dr. Jane. The faculty and staff of the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and its National Center for Children in Poverty mourn the loss of Dr. Jane Knitzer, who served as the Center's executive director from 2004 to 2009. Dr. Knitzer spent her career applying research to the promotion of public policies that improved the economic, social, heath, and well-being of America's most vulnerable children. We have lost a champion for America's children, a gifted colleague, and a dear friend. Linda Fried, MD, MPH, Dean, Mailman School of Public Health Janice Cooper, PhD, Interim Director, NCCP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILD POVERTY (88%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); EXECUTIVES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1269 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Problems of Auto Sector Hang Over Wall Street

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; David Jolly and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Optimism may have buoyed Wall Street for much of March, but on Monday, fear took a turn in the driver's seat.
 Worries about the financial system and the possibility of a bankruptcy filing at General Motors hung over investors across the world on Monday. The major indexes on Wall Street tumbled, and stocks fell across Europe and Asia on a major shake-up in the auto industry and fears about the outcome of the Group of 20 meeting this week.
 The major indexes in New York nose-dived at the opening and headed lower throughout the afternoon. It was the worst day of trading since a three-week rally began to lift battered shares. But markets seemed to recover some ground when they reopened in Asia Tuesday morning.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down about 254.16 . points or 3.2 percent to 7,522.02, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 3.4 percent or 28.41 points to 787.53, unwinding some gains from last week. The technology heavy Nasdaq was down 2.8 percent or 43.40 points, to 1,501.80. Oil prices settled down $3.97, at $48.41 a barrel. 
 ''If the government would stop doing the private sector's work, I think we might be a little better off,'' said Don Bright, director of the firm Bright Trading. ''But at this point it might be too late.''
 Shares of General Motors dropped 25 percent while the cost of protecting its credit rose, according to CMA, which tracks credit conditions. Shares of Ford, which is not receiving federal bailout money, were pulled nearly 7 percent lower by broader concerns about the auto industry. 
 In the Asian markets on Tuesday, the Nikkei 225, Japan's benchmark index, rose 1.1 percent in early trading recovering somewhat after a 4.5 percent plunge on Monday, while the Kospi in South Korea rallied 1.9 percent. The key indexes in Australia and New Zealand slipped 0.5 and 0.9 percent, respectively, on Tuesday morning.
 The declines in those markets on Monday were a harbinger of wider declines worldwide, and apparently a reaction to concerns about the fate of the auto industry.
 On Sunday, the White House pushed out the chairman of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, and instructed Chrysler to form a partnership with the Italian automaker Fiat within 30 days as conditions for receiving another round of government aid. The administration signaled that it did not have confidence in restructuring plans put forth by the struggling automakers. 
 The moves came just hours after the board of the French automaker PSA Peugeot Citroen said it had fired its chief executive.
 In a speech on Monday morning, President Obama said the auto industry had reached a critical point, and that its transformation would be a painful but necessary process.
 ''Year after year, decade after decade, we have seen problems papered over and tough choices kicked down the road, even as foreign competitors outpaced us,'' Mr. Obama said in his prepared remarks. ''Well, we have reached the end of that road.''
 Still, while investors worried about the implications of a stronger government hand in the auto industry, some analysts suggested that the Obama administration's intervention was all but inevitable. G.M. and Chrysler have been burning through cash as auto sales dry up.
 ''The government is staking out a more aggressive posture than you might have thought, which suggests a more decisive solution than death by a thousand cuts,'' said Dana Johnson, chief economist at Comerica, who follows the industry. ''I don't think people should be alarmed.''
 The convulsions in the auto industry came as global leaders prepare to meet Thursday in London to discuss how to revive global growth and improve financial regulation. But investors are concerned about a rift between the United States and Europe over how to address the deepening recession.
 ''I'm not sure the worst is behind us,'' Valerie Cazaban, a fund manager at Stratege Finance in Paris, said. ''We're waiting for the G-20 and we're not sure everyone is in agreement on what needs to be done.'' 
 The euro zone does not appear ready to follow the Obama administration's lead on fiscal stimulus, Ms. Cazaban said. The European Central Bank, however, is expected to cut its main interest rate target by half a percentage point, to 1 percent, when its policy council meets Thursday, as official interest rates around the world continue to move toward zero. 
 ''Market psychology is fragile at the moment,'' Ms. Cazaban said, ''but sentiment has improved. If the G-20 is able to work out a common purpose, then a more sustainable market rally is possible.''
 The weakness of confidence was underlined Monday by data showing European Union business and consumer sentiment fell in March to the lowest level since 1985, when the E.U. began keeping the statistics. The European Commission reported Monday from Brussels that its economic sentiment indicator for the 27 nations of the European Union fell to 60.4, from 60.9 in February. 
 Resurgent concerns about the health of the American banking sector also tempered the mood of investors. 
 ''Some banks are going to need large amounts of assistance,'' the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said Sunday, ''and we're going to make sure that assistance comes with conditions designed to make sure they restructure, provide accountability for management and ensure that these institutions are cleaner and stronger going forward.''
 Leading executives at JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America said that March had been tougher for them than the first two months of the year.
 Peugeot fell 6.5 percent in Paris trading. But financial shares were the big losers; Credit Agricole fell 9.2 percent, Barclays 6.3 percent and Deutsche Bank 9.3 percent.
 UBS fell 6.9 percent. The Swiss bank will cut 8,000 more jobs and write down at least another billion dollars of illiquid assets, the newspaper Sonntag reported Sunday. A UBS spokesman declined to comment, saying, ''We don't discuss rumors.''
 The Tokyo benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average fell 4.5 percent, led by slumps in the shares of the country's carmakers. Toyota Motor shed 3.7 percent, Honda fell 6.7 percent and Nissan dropped 7.7 percent. Suppliers also were hard hit by worries about the potential industrywide fallout that a collapse of Chrysler or General Motors would mean.
 News earlier in the day that Japan's industrial output had slipped for a fifth consecutive month revealed -- once again -- the severe impact of slumping exports and weak domestic demand, which has forced manufacturers across the country to cut back production and shed workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); FIAT SPA (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (84%); FSOR (PAR) (80%); F (BIT) (80%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (80%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (80%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (74%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



1270 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Marketers Lend Voices To Show Support For the Disabled

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
EFFORTS in advertising to pay attention to the disabled are accelerating even as the business of many marketers is slowing.
 The seeming contradiction is not surprising because in harder times many consumers begin thinking about weightier matters than the size of their homes or the features on their phones.
 For instance, in a survey released last week by Hill & Knowlton, part of WPP, 75 percent of respondents said that companies ''need to be even more charitable and responsible to their communities'' during the economic downturn. 
 That shift in attitudes represents an opportunity to connect with the public on less mercenary -- and more altruistic -- levels.
 ''We continually try to find ways to be part of the family dynamic, from birth to preteen-age,'' said Greg Ahearn, senior vice president for marketing and e-commerce at the Toys ''R'' Us United States operation in Wayne, N.J., which oversees the Toys ''R'' Us and Babies ''R'' Us retail chains. The chains are owned by an investor consortium.
 And before too long, ''kids who are 'Toys ''R'' Us kids,' '' Mr. Ahearn said, quoting the retailer's longtime ad jingle, ''become parents.''
 For the first time, Babies ''R'' Us has become part of an initiative by Toys ''R'' Us to raise money for Autism Speaks, an organization that helps autistic children. The initiative, which continues through May 1, carries the theme ''Autism: Help Solve the Puzzle.''
 The campaign is centered on a collection of photographs titled ''Faces of Autism.'' The photos are appearing on signs in stores and on a section of the Toys ''R'' Us Web site (toysrus.com/autismspeaks).
 Shoppers who donate $10 to Autism Speaks can receive a reusable tote bag designed by James Hogarth, the autistic son of Mary Hogarth, senior director for creative services at Toys ''R'' Us.
 Donations already total more than $1 million, Mr. Ahearn said. ''We are actually happy with what we've seen'' so far in contributions, he added. ''Regardless of the economic environment, people are driven to help children.''
 Since 2007, when Toys ''R'' Us first teamed up with Autism Speaks, Mr. Ahearn said, $3.7 million has been donated by shoppers, the company and the company's charity, the Toys ''R'' Us Children's Fund.
 For many years, ads and catalogs for Toys ''R'' Us have included children who are physically disabled. Consumers with physical disabilities, younger and older, have appeared in campaigns for advertisers like Cingular Wireless, Levi Strauss, McDonald's and Target.
 On Sunday, American Airlines and the American Association of People With Disabilities announced plans to honor the best television commercials featuring what are deemed positive portrayals of the disabled. The winning spot will get free air time during the airline's in-flight entertainment programming.
 As the initiative from Toys ''R'' Us suggests, efforts to acknowledge and help the disabled are becoming more inclusive of those with intellectual disabilities.
 That is underscored by a campaign scheduled to start on Tuesday, sponsored by the Special Olympics. The campaign, which seeks to end derogatory use of forms of the word ''retard,'' carries the theme ''Spread the Word to End the Word''
 The Special Olympics is being assisted in its pro bono campaign by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, and Perfect Sense Digital in Reston, Va. Their work includes posters and a Web site (r-word.org) where computer users can pledge their support ''to eliminate the demeaning use of the r-word.''
 The campaign was scheduled well before the Special Olympics made headlines when President Obama brought up the organization in making a wisecrack on ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno'' about his poor bowling skills. The Special Olympics and its agency allies are trying to turn his gaffe into a teachable moment.
 ''Words do matter,'' said Kirsten Suto Seckler, director for global marketing and awareness at the Special Olympics in Washington, even when ''it's joking about one's own ability level in sports.''
 ''We learned there's a massive need for education,'' she added, ''and a profound need to build respect.''
 Andrew Robertson, president and chief executive at BBDO Worldwide, has been on the board of the Special Olympics for five years.
 Research found the derogatory expression ''is most extreme among older teenagers in high school and early college,'' Mr. Robertson said, so the campaign was devised to be provocative enough to ''jolt them into thinking, or rethinking, how hurtful the use of the word is.''
 The posters link the word to familiar slurs about race and sexual orientation. In one poster, the slurs are written out with dashes in place of vowels but ''retard'' is spelled out.
 ''Most people who would never knowingly use disparaging terms don't see a problem with saying 'retard,' '' the poster says, adding: ''That must change. It's hateful as any other slur.''
 Other posters liken the phrases ''That's so retarded'' and ''I felt like such a retard'' to offensive phrases about blacks, Jews, gays and women. 
 ''There's a tactical reason for this jarring approach,'' said David Lubars, chairman and chief creative officer at the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide. ''If you put that word in the category of what will offend, what was a jokey throwaway becomes 'That's not me.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Web site accepts visitors' pledges in a Special Olympics campaign against hurtful language.
 The Toys ''R'' Us effort offers Autism Speaks donors a tote bag designed by the autistic son of a company executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTISM (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CHARITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (53%)

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (50%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1271 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Sticking Close to Home, Gates Solidifies Position in Obama's Inner Circle

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Robert M. Gates spent 115 days on the road last year as President George W. Bush's defense secretary and the superintendent of the United States' two wars. He was in Iraq three times, Afghanistan twice, Russia, Kosovo, India, Kyrgyzstan -- 26 countries in all.
 Not this year. As President Obama's defense secretary and the lone holdover from the Bush cabinet, Mr. Gates has cut back his trips overseas and is staying close to home. 
 His advisers say his most important travel now is the two-mile journey he makes almost every day between the Pentagon and the White House, where this canny, deceptively bland Washington master of adaptation -- he is a former director of central intelligence who has served eight presidents of both parties -- is trying to cement his role in the Obama inner circle.
 ''He has to get their confidence,'' said Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser to the first President Bush, an outside adviser to the Obama White House and one of Mr. Gates's closest friends. ''It makes everything go smoother and there are less suspicions.'' 
 For now, the daily trips appear to be working. Mr. Gates, a stolid, white-haired son of Wichita who does not look like he could play forward on the new president's basketball team, has become pivotal to the administration's overhaul of policy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, called Afpak at the White House, which Mr. Obama announced last week.
 It was lost on no one during a recent crunch of Afpak meetings in the Situation Room that as the No. 2 at the C.I.A. in the late 1980s, Mr. Gates helped funnel covert Reagan administration aid and weapons through Pakistan's spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI, to the Islamic fundamentalists who ousted the Russians from Afghanistan. 
 Some of those same fundamentalists are now enemies of the United States trying to overthrow the government in Kabul, a disastrous consequence that produced the problem the Obama administration confronts today. At the same time, American officials say a wing of the ISI is providing money and military aid to the Taliban.
 Mr. Gates does know jihad from both sides.
 ''Bob has enormous influence because of his experience,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration's special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, who first worked with Mr. Gates when both were in the Carter administration. ''We talk about Pakistan, and he can say, 'You know, when I was at the C.I.A., I worked directly with the ISI in this way.' He has the greatest continuity of experience in Afpak of any official. And he has seen the good, the bad and the ugly up close.''
 White House officials say Mr. Gates has an authority and rapport with Mr. Obama that exceeds his low wattage in public. People who know both men say they share an analytic, deliberative approach to national security -- Mr. Gates has a Ph.D. in Russian and Soviet history from Georgetown University -- and have found common ground in a centrist foreign policy reminiscent of one they both admire, that of the first President George Bush.
 During the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama said he had ''enormous sympathy'' for the foreign policy of Mr. Bush, particularly his handling of the 1991 Persian Gulf war and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Mr. Gates, who declined to be interviewed, served the first President Bush as deputy national security adviser and director of central intelligence, and is described by members of both parties as a nonideological pragmatist. 
 Denis McDonough, one of Mr. Obama's top foreign policy aides, said that a factor in Mr. Obama's decision to ask Mr. Gates, a Republican, to stay on in the job was a speech Mr. Gates gave in 2007, when he called for more money for the State Department and said the United States had to use economic development in fighting threats abroad. ''One of the most important lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan,'' Mr. Gates said then, ''is that military success is not sufficient to win.''
 This past week, as Mr. Gates stood behind Mr. Obama during the announcement of the Afpak plan, his pragmatist fingerprints were evident: The strategy broadened the effort to include more troops and civilian development experts but narrowed the goal from the second President Bush's ''flourishing democracy'' to one this White House (and Mr. Gates) consider more realistic, denying Al Qaeda and its allies a safe haven in the region. 
 In the internal debate over the plan, Mr. Gates pressed for and got 4,000 additional troops, but only as trainers, and he and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, agreed to put off any decision to order more combat forces until the end of the year. 
 The deal was consistent with Mr. Gates's view that United States should not have a large footprint in Afghanistan and what friends say is his discomfort with lofty democracy rhetoric. ''If we set ourselves the objective of creating some sort of Central Asian Valhalla over there, we will lose,'' Mr. Gates recently told Congress.
 The remark ricocheted around the city as a startling break from the second President Bush, but it was also a departure from Mr. Obama's comments during the campaign when he spoke grandly of rebuilding Afghanistan's civil institutions. Friends say that Mr. Gates's thinking may have been a factor in bringing Mr. Obama's goals down to earth or at the very least that there was a meeting of minds.
 ''Who got there first, I don't know,'' said Lee Hamilton, president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center, ''but they really have sought a kind of middle ground between making Afghanistan a model of democracy and stability on the one hand, and a slide into chaos on the other.''
 Friends say they expect that Mr. Gates, 65, will stay on as Mr. Obama's defense secretary beyond a single year, his expected tenure when Mr. Obama appointed him. Still, Mr. Gates's wife continues to spend six months of the year at their home near Seattle. Mr. Gates has made no secret of his distaste for Washington, where in 1991 confirmation hearings for intelligence chief he was accused of politicizing Reagan-era intelligence and exaggerating the Soviet threat. These days he lives a life of take-out food and briefing books in a home at a small military compound near the State Department.
 Mr. Gates has been careful about comparing his two most recent bosses, although on a recent appearance on the NBC program ''Meet the Press'' he called Mr. Obama ''somewhat more analytical'' than Mr. Bush.
 Still, Mr. Gates's advisers say he has no illusions of how difficult Afghanistan will be.
 ''The White House is a poignant place,'' Mr. Gates wrote in his 1996 memoir, ''From the Shadows.'' He added: ''It seems to me that for those who live and work there, if they are completely honest with themselves, with rare exception the most vivid memories are not of victory but of crisis and defeat -- and, for a fortunate few, of one or two occasions of historical importance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates on Dec. 11, 2008, visiting visiting Kandahar, Afghanistan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY SCOTT OLSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TALIBAN (77%); ESPIONAGE (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); COUPS (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); BASKETBALL (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); KOSOVO (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1272 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Contracts Now Seen As Being Rewritable

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and JONATHAN GLATER

 BODY:
Contracts everywhere are under assault. 
 The depth of the recession and the use of taxpayer dollars to bail out companies have made it politically acceptable for overseers to tinker with employment agreements. 
 So federal and local governments are looking for ways to pare payouts, endangering the promises made before the financial storm to people like Wall Street traders, automobile workers and garbage collectors. 
 ''We run roughshod over some contracts and not over others,'' said David A. Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, about economic downturns. ''Right now, employment contracts seem to be the type of contract that is viewed as eminently rewritable.'' 
 The Treasury Department is seeking broad powers to seize troubled companies and rewrite contracts like the ones promising bonuses at the American International Group. Some A.I.G. employees, meanwhile, have been pressured by officials into repaying their bonuses to the giant insurance company rescued by the government. 
 Across the country, Vallejo, Calif., just got permission in bankruptcy court to tear up its contracts with firefighters and other workers. In Stockton, the city manager is studying whether to follow Vallejo's lead.
 In Michigan, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm just ordered the city of Pontiac put under emergency financial management, after it failed, among other things, to rein in the cost of police, fire and trash collection services. 
 And President Obama's auto task force, after replacing the top management at General Motors, is looking for ways to overhaul the contracts that G.M. and Chrysler have signed with unionized workers.
 Honoring any type of contract can be hard in a down economy, but financial agreements, like the ones between A.I.G. and its derivatives counterparties, are so far faring better.
 The possible ripple effects of not keeping those financial contracts, or defaulting, have raised alarms and prompted arguments that it would be too dangerous to void them. After all, the collapse of Lehman Brothers is widely blamed for paralyzing the credit markets last fall, which may in turn have prompted the Federal Reserve to stand behind A.I.G.'s derivatives contracts, making its trading partners whole. 
 Employment agreements have enjoyed no such help. In the past, the belief that voters would make their disdain known has at least discouraged politicians from using a heavy hand. 
 Now, though, officials in the Obama administration may be looking ahead to a rescue of the automakers, an enormous challenge that could be simplified, from the government's point of view, if kept out of court and under tight administration control. That would make it easier to change the terms of contracts governing retiree benefits, said David L. Gregory, a law professor at St. John's University in New York.
 ''The issue is, how can the government calibrate and contour and control the process of reorganization,'' without the time, expense and compromise inherent in bankruptcy, Mr. Gregory said. ''The executive branch is proposing to do what the bankruptcy courts have had the exclusive prerogative to do.''
 This month, the town of Vallejo demonstrated not only that it was possible for a city to tear up its union contracts in bankruptcy, but that it was even easier for a city to do so than for a company. The precedent may matter.
 Municipalities do not file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection; they use Chapter 9, which has different terms and a much smaller body of legal precedent. Municipal bankruptcies are so rare that until the Vallejo ruling, it was not clear whether a city could get out of its union contracts in Chapter 9. 
 Unions representing Vallejo's public employees tried to argue that state labor laws protected the contracts. But the federal judge handling the bankruptcy, Michael S. McManus, wrote that federal bankruptcy law trumped the state labor law. He also observed that Congress could have set tougher standards for municipalities voiding their labor contracts -- it did so for companies. But such bills died in committee.
 After reaching his decision, the judge gave both sides one more chance to try to negotiate less-onerous concessions. 
 ''The world is watching, and I don't say that with pride, because we never wanted to file a Chapter 9,'' said Marc A. Levinson, a partner with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe who is representing Vallejo in the bankruptcy. The city ran out of money last year, after promising benefits that it could not afford when the recession drove down tax receipts.
 Vallejo's bankruptcy is being closely watched because its problems mirror those in many communities that have promised benefits that now look unsustainable. In many places the benefits have been locked in with statutory and constitutional guarantees.
 ''That's why Vallejo is so important,'' said James E. Spiotto, a Chapter 9 specialist with the firm of Chapman & Cutler in Chicago. ''Chapter 9 and bankruptcy is the land of broken promises.'' He said unions were better off negotiating concessions now than landing in bankruptcy court and ending up with no contract at all. 
 But entirely different rules apply to bonded debt, and to a related problem plaguing some communities: derivatives. Chapter 9 was never meant to be a place where governments could get out of their bonded debt, Mr. Spiotto said. 
 Derivatives are largely untested, but the issue may reach a decisive point in Jefferson County, Ala., which is entangled in interest-rate swaps. The swaps were intended to shield the county from rising interest rates after it issued a large amount of variable-rate debt to pay for a new sewer system. 
 The swap arrangements broke down amid last year's turmoil in the credit markets, leaving Jefferson County with $3.2 billion in debt that it can neither pay nor refinance. Some officials are now calling for a Chapter 9 filing; others are against it.
 Alabama's governor, Bob Riley, has written to the Treasury secretary and the Federal Reserve chairman, asking for help in stretching out Alabama's financial obligations, rather than repudiating them.
 The Treasury secretary, meanwhile, is working on a much broader initiative to give the federal government the power to modify the contracts of the financial institutions it takes over. The proposal raises several new issues, because it would eliminate the judicial oversight of bankruptcy proceedings and the opportunity for affected parties to challenge the changes. 
 The goal is to speed up reaction time to crises, said Lisa Hill Fenning, a retired bankruptcy judge who now practices at Dewey & LeBoeuf in Los Angeles. ''Traditional ways of dealing with these problems are too complicated and would take too long,'' Ms. Fenning said. ''They're trying to cut through red tape.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sewerage worker in Jefferson County, Ala., which has $3.2 billion in debt that it can neither pay nor refinance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES NESBITT/THE BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 An empty business in Vallejo, Calif., a town that recently tore up its union contracts because it was in bankruptcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CONTRACTS LAW (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (52%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1273 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Big 3 Is Cut to One

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
It's Sheldon Silver's Albany now. 
 Mr. Silver, the powerful and cagey Assembly speaker, achieved what he wanted in the budget that emerged from the shadows of the statehouse this weekend, cementing his newfound role as the capital's center of gravity. 
 He won the policy fight, forcing Gov. David A. Paterson to raise taxes on the wealthiest New Yorkers, an idea that the governor decried as potentially disastrous three weeks ago. The $131.8 billion budget, which could hardly be called austere, is largely a reflection of the liberal tilt of Mr. Silver, and the Assembly's predilection for big spending on social programs, no matter the economic climate. 
 Mr. Silver also dictated the process, turning back the clock to the most secretive budget negotiations the capital has seen in years, casting aside the open government that Mr. Paterson and other Democrats once said would follow the party's sweeping victories in recent state elections. He argued that technicalities in recently passed budget reform legislation allowed the Legislature to circumvent requirements for open meetings among those negotiating the spending plan. 
 And the speaker preserved the Legislature's cherished spending on pet projects, pushing successfully for $170 million for members to dole out in district spending, leaving that pool of money essentially untouched, despite the fiscal crisis. 
 He argued that ''nonprofit organizations throughout the state have been devastated by the economic downturn,'' but lawmakers appropriated money for gun clubs, churches, a yoga foundation and the Wantagh American Legion Pipe Band, among thousands of other projects.
 Critics say Mr. Silver, a Democrat from the Lower East Side who has been speaker for the last 15 years, is the symbol of all that is broken in state government, a man who long ago forsook principle for power. They also say that he lacks the fiscal discipline to prudently manage the state's escalating future deficits. 
 Allies say he is the only senior Democrat in state government fielding a competent staff with the expertise to lead the state, and that he will usher in a more activist left-leaning agenda on important policy issues, like the recent agreement among state leaders to eliminate many of the remaining stringent Rockefeller era penalties for drug offenses. 
 Certainly, he is more influential than ever, a master negotiator who finds his counterparts diminished in stature. Mr. Paterson has dismal poll numbers and a staff in constant flux; even some of his supporters worry about his ability to be elected next year. In the Senate, Democrats are still learning to work the levers of power after more than 40 years in the minority, and Senator Malcolm A. Smith, the majority leader, is consumed with keeping his fractious caucus together. 
 ''I don't feel like I prevailed,'' Mr. Silver said of the budget in an interview Sunday night. ''I don't consider that a great goal.''
 ''We went into this budget saying over and over again that the sacrifices will be shared, that the wealthiest New Yorkers would be asked to pay more, that we wouldn't decimate education and health care to balance the budget,'' he added.
 He conceded his experience gave him some inherent advantages. 
 ''Clearly we have a good staff and the Senate is still relatively new,'' Mr. Silver said, adding of the Paterson administration: ''Clearly they're finding out how the process works. A lot of the staff is new.''
 Opposing Mr. Silver has proven futile, even for billionaire antagonists like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose plans to charge drivers entering Manhattan and to bring a football stadium to the West Side were scuttled by Mr. Silver. 
 Mr. Paterson, who no longer has a discernable ideology, is being increasingly marginalized. When he was laboring in obscurity as Senate minority leader, he was a champion of open government; as governor, he has been a sharp critic of the concept. 
 Mr. Paterson had a liberal voting record during his more than two decades in the Senate, but as governor he has sought to reinvent himself as a champion of fiscal conservatism. His own budget plan, which he retooled earlier this month, outlined roughly $8 billion in spending cuts and $4.5 billion in new or increased taxes and fees, when one includes his plan to eliminate property tax rebate checks that were part of the state's School Tax Relief program.
 But the final budget favored taxes over spending cuts, with Democratic leaders signing off on approximately $7 billion in new or increased taxes and fees, including the canceled rebate checks.
 Republicans, who were not meaningfully involved in the negotiations, pointed out that the tax hikes and other actions ran to more than $8 billion when one included moves like using tuition increases at state universities to balance the budget.
 Even without federal stimulus funds, state spending growth exceeds the rate of inflation. 
 The $4 billion in income tax increases on the wealthy and the upper middle class, with increases starting for single filers earning $200,000, had been a priority for Mr. Silver, and initially opposed by the governor and Mr. Smith. Mr. Paterson warned of the risks of such a move earlier this month: ''When we have raised taxes on the wealthy in the past, we have seen a loss of job growth almost immediately,'' he said. 
 Mr. Silver also reversed cuts to education proposed by the governor, including $185 million in cuts to pre-K special education programs as well as cuts to tuition assistance for public university students. He restored a cost-of-living increase to supplemental Social Security income checks that the governor had proposed to freeze, and moved up a plan to increase welfare grants to begin in June instead of next January. 
 Where the governor did prevail, on proposals like an expansion of the state's nickel bottle deposits to include bottled water, it was often on issues that were already Assembly priorities. 
 ''I can't see what the governor got out of it, or what the Senate majority leader got out of it,'' said Kenneth Adams, the chief executive of the Business Council of New York State. ''If it's done by three people and two of them didn't get much out of it, it certainly sounds like the third person gets the spoils.''
 Still, even some who criticized the process acknowledge that some of Mr. Silver's moves restored funding for worthy programs, especially in these hard times. At the same time, the state's main financial engine, Wall Street, is undergoing a profound transformation and unlikely to soon produce the tax revenues of its heyday. Some wonder if an Albany led mainly by Mr. Silver will be willing to confront that reality.
 ''The message hasn't hit home yet that the state is in an enormous fiscal crisis,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, the deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, adding of the new budget: ''It's a disgrace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, Gov. David A. Paterson and the Senate majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1274 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Gillibrand's District Set to Vote for a Successor

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
A hard-fought race in New York's 20th Congressional District will be decided Tuesday, when voters choose between a Democratic newcomer, Scott Murphy, and a veteran Republican assemblyman, James N. Tedisco. 
 The two are vying to succeed Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat who was elected in 2006 and remains highly popular in the district. Her seat was vacated when she replaced Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Senate.
 Mr. Murphy, 39, a venture capitalist who says he has created 1,000 jobs, has made the economy the focus of his campaign, boosting the federal stimulus package at every step and hammering Mr. Tedisco first for equivocating on where he stood on it, then for coming out against it.
 Mr. Tedisco, 58, the minority leader in Albany who has long represented Saratoga, positioned himself as a champion for cutting government waste. He has assailed Mr. Murphy for supporting the stimulus package despite a provision that allowed the payout of bonuses at American International Group, the insurer that received a federal bailout.
 At the start of the short campaign, in early February, Mr. Tedisco seemed the clear favorite, given his long political experience and the built-in Republican advantage: a registration margin of about 75,000 voters. And the new Republican national chairman, Michael Steele, vowed to make the election the start of a comeback for the party after the November blowout.
 By contrast, Mr. Murphy's main drawing card, in some Democrats' eyes, was his ability to pay for his campaign himself. But Mr. Murphy's wealth was overblown as an advantage: he lent his campaign only $250,000, while Mr. Tedisco came up with $200,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (56%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (78%); MICHAEL STEELE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1275 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Sarkozy and Merkel, Often at Odds, Try to Shape European Unity

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and NICHOLAS KULISH; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
They are an extremely odd couple -- he is short and hyperactive, she is dour and shy. He believes in the power of the state and big interventions; she believes in a softer role for the state, guiding and prodding the market. Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel don't even get along very well, aides to both leaders say. He has made fun of her accent in private meetings, the aides say, and she says he is self-centered and impetuous.
 But the French president and the German chancellor find themselves in a forced marriage in these days of economic crisis. Responsible for the two largest economies among nations that use the euro, known as the euro zone, they are trying to shape European unity in the days before the Group of 20 economic summit meeting this week. 
 They also are bearing the brunt of criticism, especially from the left and from Washington, that they are not responding forcefully enough to the recession and the collapse of world trade. 
 In general, when France and Germany agree, they bring the European Union along, so the two leaders' relationship is crucial in a period of crisis. While they have produced very different national responses to the economic downturn -- with Mrs. Merkel authorizing a larger stimulus package than France has -- they have worked together to keep fiscal discipline in the euro zone, and resist American calls for even greater government spending. 
 They have found common cause as well in a call for much tougher global regulation of financial markets, putting the blame for the crisis directly on the ''Anglo-Saxons'' -- the United States and Britain, whose free-market practices, not widely copied in continental Europe, are viewed by France and Germany as not sufficiently disciplined by the state.
 Recently, for example, they issued a joint letter to their European Union colleagues to back ''a new global financial architecture'' that would create transnational oversight and regulation, which Washington opposes and London dislikes. They also called for a crackdown on unregulated hedge funds and tax havens that have strong bank-secrecy laws.
 And both countries, Germany in particular, want to be sure that they have enough money to come to the aid, if necessary, of weaker, less disciplined euro economies, like those of Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, while promoting a bigger International Monetary Fund to deal with troubled countries outside the euro zone, like Romania, Hungary and the Baltic states.
 ''The financial and economic crisis has really helped bring their positions closer together,'' said Claire Demesmay of the German Council on Foreign Relations. ''They see that a coordination of political measures within the E.U. and between E.U. countries is necessary.''
 Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel try each other's nerves, however. Last month in Berlin, the newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung reported, Mr. Sarkozy delayed a news conference of European heads of state by refusing to follow the Czech prime minister, Mirek Topolanek, in the speaking order, even though the Czech Republic holds the revolving presidency of the European Union. The no-nonsense Mrs. Merkel, who as host would speak first, quietly ceded her position to the Czech.
 Even for NATO's coming 60th anniversary summit meeting, which France and Germany will host, Mr. Sarkozy insisted that he sit next to the NATO secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, whenever the cameras were on, instead of the traditional practice of sitting in alphabetical order by country, according to Spiegel Online. As a compromise, Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel will flank the secretary general in front of the cameras, but otherwise sit in their normal seats.
 ''Merkel is not looking for headlines -- she is more of a long-distance runner,'' said Wolfgang Nowak, who runs Deutsche Bank's International Forum. ''There is still that old French feeling that France should be the leader and Germany the banker, but this year we have to have a new foundation for this relationship.''
 Still, both Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel were taken off guard by the crisis, said Daniel Cohen, a professor of economics at the Ecole Normale Superieure. And neither may be taking it seriously enough, he said. ''When Sarkozy was chairing the European Union, Germany was then very reluctant to embark on a package to reflate the economy,'' he said. ''Merkel realized only later the extent that Germany was hit by the crisis.''
 As for Mr. Sarkozy, Mr. Cohen said, ''he was elected on a program, very liberal by French standards, to lower taxes, cut state jobs and create new incentives to work more -- the crisis has made all these measures totally inadequate and obsolete.''
 In their differing responses, Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy are also reflecting different ideologies, differently structured economies and different political pressures.
 At the beginning of the crisis, Mr. Sarkozy called for a Europewide package to help banks and for a kind of ''European financial government.'' Mrs. Merkel scorned both ideas, believing that German banks were stable. She was forced to act later, but then got hit with the second wave of the crisis -- the collapse of global trade, which hit the export-driven German economy very hard, just as it hit the Japanese and Chinese.
 Mr. Sarkozy moved quickly to create a fund for French banks to ensure that they had enough capital and to induce new lending, talked of state intervention and fiercely criticized unbridled capitalism. He praised ''the return of the state,'' but he has been more cautious about government spending.
 While he announced a $34 billion stimulus program over two years, only $17 billion represented new spending and about $8 billion of it was aimed at the French car industry. That created resentment by European allies with their own flagging car industries, like Germany, and also anger in some countries, since he called on French companies to bring back jobs from their subsidiaries in lower-wage countries like the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. His protectionist instincts were slapped down by the European Commission.
 Mr. Sarkozy has insisted that he will not increase public spending further, though he is promoting big government projects like modernizing rail and transport lines. His aides are anxious about more strikes and violence among workers and disaffected youth later in the spring, and Mr. Sarkozy now says that he will respond quickly if necessary.
 But he is pressing ahead to cut taxes on the wealthy and to provide more money to those already working, by encouraging overtime work beyond the legally mandated 35-hour workweek. His problem -- and one cause for domestic anger -- is that the policy works against the needs of the crisis. More hours now for those in work mean fewer jobs for those laid off. 
 As for fiscal stimulus to produce consumer demand, French consumer spending is down only slightly. While its economy is contracting, France, given the size of the government sector -- more than 52 percent of gross domestic product -- is more insulated from global economic swings than other nations are, especially given fierce worker protections.
 By comparison, Germany was slow to act, starting with a relatively modest series of measures last fall worth about $42 billion. But Mrs. Merkel's government came up with an additional $65 billion in January, with programs like school reconstruction and a 2,500-euro incentive to trade in old cars and buy new ones. Her intent has been to protect companies and workers by helping to subsidize pay, rather than dump new cash on Germans who are more likely to save it than spend it.
 Unlike Mr. Sarkozy, who has three more years to his term, Mrs. Merkel finds herself in a difficult position, facing elections in September with voters leery of fiscal profligacy. Her Christian Democrats have been sinking in the polls, with the pro-business Free Democrats eating away at their support.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany at a meeting in Brussels in December.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY ROGE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); ANGELA MERKEL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GREECE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1276 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Obama Goes to Lawmakers on Budget

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama traveled to Capitol Hill on Monday evening to bolster House Democrats as Congress began a politically charged budget debate that will determine the president's ability to pursue his broad domestic policy agenda.
 In a private session with lawmakers, Mr. Obama urged them to remain united behind the House's $3.5 trillion spending plan, saying its approval would provide momentum for more difficult fights to come over major policy changes he has promised.
 ''If we don't pass the budget, it will empower those critics who don't want to see anything getting done,'' Mr. Obama told his fellow Democrats, according to one senior official at the session in the new Capitol Visitor Center. 
 The official and others on hand were granted anonymity so they could freely describe what happened at the meeting because it was closed. They said Mr. Obama, who held a similar session last week with Senate Democrats, sought to reassure lawmakers anxious about the level of spending and rising deficit projections. 
 Mr. Obama said that he intended to keep pressing to reduce the red ink and that the spending would help prompt the growth needed to turn the economy around. According to one account, he said he was ''as serious as a heart attack'' about lowering the deficit. 
 He told the Democrats that their collective political standing and their ability to execute an aggressive agenda depended on remaining united. 
 ''We're all in this together,'' the president told the group, Congressional officials said.
 After the meeting, House Democrats said his appeal resonated with the scores of Democrats on hand.
 ''We are a united caucus, and we are especially united behind this president and his vision for this country,'' said Representative John B. Larson of Connecticut, the chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.
 Lawmakers and aides said Mr. Obama also impressed them with his detailed level of political knowledge, reminding one questioner that the lawmaker had voted against his economic stimulus legislation. ''Don't think we're not keeping score, brother,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Both the House and the Senate hope to adopt their respective budget proposals by the end of the week, but not before extensive back-and-forth between the two parties. Each plan opens the door to Mr. Obama's major initiatives on health care, energy and education, but Congress would have to settle on the details later, as well as how to generate money to pay for the new programs.
 In the Senate, the clash got off to a quick start on Monday as lawmakers began a weeklong review of the fiscal blueprint. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, delivered a stinging attack of the $3.5 trillion spending plan, accusing Democrats of misleading the public by suggesting that they could increase domestic spending, overhaul health care and energy policy, provide Internet access to most Americans and still cut taxes.
 ''It doesn't add up,'' Mr. McCain said. ''It won't add up. And it won't last.''
 But Democrats said they had pared more than $600 billion from Mr. Obama's initial plan and had lowered future projected deficits to a more manageable level. ''We have attempted to be responsible,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and the chairman of the Budget Committee.
 Most of the attention has been focused on efforts to limit spending to make the budget more palatable to Democratic centrists. But other Democrats have indicated that they may try to raise spending. 
 Mr. Conrad warned that efforts to increase the bottom line could imperil final approval of the budget by upsetting the delicate balance intended to win majority support.
 ''Change this at your peril,'' said Mr. Conrad, appealing to colleagues who plan to seek additional money.
 Mr. Conrad and other Democrats also continued to press Republican critics to present their own budget. Noting that Mr. McCain on Sunday called for Republicans to assemble a full spending alternative, the Democratic National Committee circulated an Internet video on Monday contrasting Mr. McCain's position with party leaders who have balked at offering a Republican budget. ''Who's driving the Republican bus?'' the video asked.
 Despite the contentious debate, even Republicans acknowledged Monday that in the absence of some significant development, both budgets were likely to pass, setting the stage for a final negotiation between House and Senate Democrats. 
 The main sticking point between the two chambers could be whether to back a procedural maneuver that would limit Senate filibusters against legislation arising out of the budget. Mr. Conrad and other Senate Democrats say they oppose such an approach, though the House has included it in its budget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in Washington on Monday with top House Democrats: Steny H. Hoyer, left, majority leader
Speaker Nancy Pelosi
 and James E. Clyburn, far right, majority whip.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOHN LARSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1277 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Focusing on Afghanistan and Pakistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Remembered War'' (editorial, March 28):
 President Obama's strategy review for Afghanistan and Pakistan, unveiled last week, finally focuses the government's attention and resources where they are most needed. After years of our country's being bogged down in Iraq, the president recognizes that the key to our national security is defeating Al Qaeda, and that to do so we must address both Pakistan and Afghanistan.
 But while the president clearly understands that the greatest threat to our nation resides in Pakistan, the strategy he unveiled last week has the potential to escalate rather than diminish this threat. 
 While the Obama administration's plan and rhetoric recognize the vital need to confront this threat, the decision to send 21,000 additional troops to Afghanistan before fully confronting the terrorist safe havens and instability in Pakistan could very well prove counterproductive.
 Increased military engagement against the Taliban in Afghanistan could push it further into Pakistan while aggravating the militant extremism that has spread to more and more parts of that country. 
 New Taliban safe havens could emerge from which attacks in Afghanistan or Pakistan, like last week's bombing in the Khyber Pass, could be planned. More Pakistanis could fall under the control of those who would violate basic human rights, particularly the rights of women and girls.
 Already weak government institutions could deteriorate further, undermining the legitimacy of the Pakistani state. And a country with nuclear weapons could be dangerously destabilized.
 President Obama has stated clearly that we cannot prevail in Afghanistan without addressing Pakistan -- but that recognition alone is not enough. We need to address the insecurity in Pakistan before any decision to send significantly more troops to Afghanistan. 
 Russ Feingold U.S. Senator from Wisconsin Washington, March 30, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial appropriately refers to the 9/11 attacks in discussing President Obama's Afghanistan-Pakistan policies. 
 It should be kept in mind that the perpetrators of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center had connections with the terrorist camps of Afghanistan. 
 Violent anti-American jihadism has been deeply rooted in the Kabul-Peshawar-Kandahar triangle for about two decades. The challenges facing Mr. Obama are even more profound than those identified in your excellent editorial.
 Edward A. Friedman Hoboken, N.J., March 28, 2009
 The writer, professor emeritus of technology management at Stevens Institute of Technology, was director of a U.S.A.I.D. program to establish an indigenous college of engineering at Kabul University, 1970-73.
 To the Editor:
 While President Obama's new plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan is, as your editorial puts it, ''a good first step toward fixing the dangerous situation'' there, don't forget that it was Congress that in response to 9/11 hastily and recklessly gave President Bush a blank check to invade Afghanistan. 
 Congress has an equally important responsibility to replace that blank check with a new authorization focused on bringing to justice those who planned and carried out the 9/11 attacks. This new authorization should clearly state the United States' political, economic, legal and military objectives.
 Tony Green Gualala, Calif., March 28, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Certainly it's a relief to hear President Obama express a clear goal for our Afghan operation after years of George W. Bush's vagaries about somehow creating a representative democracy in a country that has never been hospitable to anything like that. 
 Mr. Bush apparently believed in ''nation-building.'' President Obama, however, in announcing a more realistic policy, seemed to put all thoughts of nation-building behind him. 
 But we will now spend $1.5 billion a year to develop Pakistani infrastructure. We will also send at least 4,000 troops to train the Afghan Army and police, and hundreds of civilians to improve the Afghan economy. And if that's not nation-building and a potential quagmire, I don't know what is.
 John Corry New York, March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); WRITERS (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); WOMEN (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1278 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 359 words

 BODY:
A DIFFICULT DECISIONPresident Obama's order that the automakers must adopt radical change came after meetings last week in which the president wrestled with his conclusion that General Motors and Chrysler are not viable and his determination to save the industry. 
 There is no template for the president's plan for overhauling the automakers. News Analysis. [A18.] 
 Mr. Obama says he supports an effort to create a large cash incentive for trade-ins to spur auto sales. [A18.]
 THE NEW C.E.O. AT G.M.Frederick A. Henderson, known as Fritz, below, the son of a Buick sales manager, is involved in the biggest task of his life: saving G.M. from demise. He's worked in 45 countries for G.M., and his experience in Brazil should serve him well. [B4.]
 INSUFFICIENT CUTS President Obama's auto task force says all of G.M.'s deep cuts in recent years simply have not been enough. The automaker now has 60 days to make more. [B1.] 
 BULL OR BEAR? Which is it: a bull or bear market? It's difficult to tell. [B1.] 
 GET IN THE GAME Bondholders may not like their role in the restructuring of General Motors so far, but they need to be a willing and open-minded partner in the coming discussions to save the company. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.]
 HUMMER NEAR ITS END Production of G.M.'s Hummer, that big hulking S.U.V. that quaffs gasoline, is on the verge of being discontinued. [B4.] 
 A WAR ON CONTRACTS Governments and employers across the United States are successfully attacking employment contracts as they battle to save money in the financial crisis. [B1.] 
 OVER BUDGET AT THE PENTAGON Almost 70 percent of the Pentagon's 96 largest weapons programs were over budget last year, a Congressional auditing agency has reported. [B8.]
 IN DEFENSE OF BUSINESS TRAVEL The travel industry is taking a new stance on legitimate -- not lavish -- business trips to meetings and events: they help people keep jobs and keep the industry viable. [B6.] 
 CAMPAIGNS FOR THE DISABLED As other business slows, ad agencies are making an effort to give attention to the disabled with campaigns about autism and the mentally retarded. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B9.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); BONDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); MENTAL RETARDATION (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); AUTISM (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1279 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Pledge $40 Million For Afghanistan Elections

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: THE HAGUE 

 BODY:
The United States will commit $40 million to underwrite the cost of holding elections in Afghanistan this summer, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Monday, as she began selling the Obama administration's new Afghanistan policy to friends and foes.
 ''We do not support or oppose any candidate,'' Mrs. Clinton told reporters on her way to an international conference on Afghanistan that begins on Tuesday in the Netherlands. ''We want to ensure the elections themselves are going to have legitimacy and credibility.'' 
 The American pledge, aimed at closing a $100 million shortfall in the United Nations' fund-raising for the August elections, is part of what she hopes will be a raft of proposals on a variety of issues, including restoring Afghanistan's security and stemming its corrosive drug trade, she said.
 But the administration will face war-weary allies that are reluctant to commit more troops to Afghanistan as well as suspicious neighbors like Iran, which will attend the conference but has rebuffed President Obama's recent attempts at dialogue.
 Mrs. Clinton said the United States would present a pragmatic strategy built on defeating Al Qaeda rather than trying to transform Afghanistan into a Western-style democracy.
 ''We're entering this with a very clear-eyed, realistic view of what is possible,'' she said of the new policy, which Mr. Obama announced last Friday and will discuss with NATO allies in Europe later this week.
 In a sign of its determination to break from the Bush administration, the Obama administration no longer uses a signature Bush phrase, the ''war on terror,'' Mrs. Clinton confirmed. ''The administration has stopped using the phrase,'' she said, ''and I think that speaks for itself.''
 Mrs. Clinton said she had no plans to meet with the Iranian representative, though she suggested that she would not avoid an informal encounter. Iran has a constructive role, she said, especially in counternarcotics, because heroin made from Afghan poppies fuels a rising drug habit in Iran. The drug flow had become an ''internal security'' problem for Tehran, she added.
 ''The fact that they accepted the invitation to come suggests they believe there is a role for them to play,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 With the NATO allies generally unwilling to deploy additional combat troops to Afghanistan, the United States is emphasizing economic and development issues. Mrs. Clinton said she would stress the need to help the Afghans improve their governance and jump-start aid projects, which have been bogged down by waste and rampant corruption.
 Less than a quarter of the aid pledged to Afghanistan from 2002 to 2008 has been delivered. Forty percent of it has gone back to the donors because of poor coordination with the Afghans.
 Underscoring the administration's promise to scrutinize the use of aid money, Mrs. Clinton brought along Jacob J. Lew, the deputy secretary who oversees the State Department's budget. Mr. Lew will travel to Afghanistan from the conference. 
 ''We are looking at every single dollar, as to how it's spent and where it's going, and trying to track the outcomes,'' she said. ''There is very little credibility for what was invested; it's heartbreaking.''
 The pledge of $40 million for the election will help pay for the distribution of ballot boxes and the counting of ballots. It is separate from the costs of providing security for the election.
 The conference, though led by the United Nations, is largely Mrs. Clinton's initiative. She pushed for it to be held and for Iran to be included on the list of invited countries. She will be accompanied by Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 The regional focus, she said, is a change from how the Bush White House viewed Afghanistan policy. Mr. Obama is to discuss the policy with the leaders of China and Russia at an economic summit meeting in London this week, and later at a NATO meeting in France and Germany.
 While American allies have already welcomed the new focus, the United States is not ready to discuss one delicate issue: those suspected of being insurgents held at the American military prison on the Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. 
 In a report to be issued this week, the Asia Society calls for the United States to close the Bagram detention center and to turn its prisoners over to the Afghan police. The treatment of those Afghans, the report says, has blackened the image of the United States in Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrived Monday in the Netherlands for a conference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DEJONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); HEROIN (68%); AL-QAEDA (66%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (57%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1280 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Wagoner Retains His Optimism as He Bows Out

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
In his parting words to General Motors employees early Monday, the chief executive, Rick Wagoner, exuded the confidence that guided him the last eight years at G.M., even as the nation's biggest automaker was on a downward slide.
 ''G.M. is a great company with a storied history.'' Mr. Wagoner said, in an e-mail message made public by the automaker. ''Ignore the doubters because I know it is also a company with a great future.''
 Mr. Wagoner, whose resignation was confirmed by G.M. on Monday, explained his departure by saying he had been urged to ''step aside'' by Obama administration officials, ''and so I have.''
 In an address on the auto industry Monday morning, President Obama said the request for Mr. Wagoner's resignation was ''not meant as a condemnation'' of him. ''Rather, it's a recognition that it will take a new vision and new direction to create the G.M. of the future,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 The United Automobile Workers union, which thus far has resisted concessions sought by Mr. Wagoner as part of an effort to win billions more in federal aid, had no comment. 
 But Michigan's governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, who has tirelessly defended her state's most important industry, echoed a fledgling sense in Detroit that Mr. Wagoner may be viewed as an auto industry martyr.
 Speaking on MSNBC, Ms. Granholm said Mr. Wagoner was a ''sacrificial lamb.'' Calling him ''a great guy,'' Gov. Granholm said she did not know if Mr. Wagoner's departure ultimately would matter.
 Donald Grimes, a University of Michigan economist, said he was also puzzled by the need for Mr. Wagoner to leave. The greater question, he said, was the viability of a smaller G.M. going forward, given its huge health care and pension burden.
 Mr. Wagoner had tried to address both those issues in recent years, as well as fending off numerous challenges to his leadership, from the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian in 2006, and from angry members of Congress last year. But he appeared to have met his match in President Obama, a critic of Detroit automakers for their failure to shift their lineups to fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Through three major restructuring plans enacted on his watch -- eliminating dozens of plants, tens of thousands of jobs and jettisoning hundreds of dealers -- Mr. Wagoner maintained a stolid confidence in himself and the company's strength. Only recently did he acknowledge the need to significantly pare the company's brand and model lineup, to better match the company's bloated infrastructure with the shrinking market. 
 Only at the second round of Congressional hearings last fall did Mr. Wagoner start agreeing that the company had made mistakes, and that its problems were not all attributable to outside forces like the weakening economy and tightening credit markets.
 Mr. Wagoner joined G.M.'s financial operations in 1977 out of Harvard Business School, and, like generations of executives before him, worked nowhere else during his career. 
 Mr. Wagoner vaulted into Detroit's consciousness in 1992 upon another resignation during a financial crisis -- that of Robert C. Stempel, the chief executive at G.M. at the time. 
 Then only 38, Mr. Wagoner became G.M.'s chief financial officer. Two years later, he was named president of its North American operations. 
 His mentor, the chief executive John F. Smith Jr., named Mr. Wagoner president of G.M. in 1998, and he succeeded Mr. Smith in the top job in 2000.
 Like Mr. Smith, Mr. Wagoner aggressively expanded G.M.'s operations outside the United States. The company now sells 65 percent of its vehicles overseas, thanks to Mr. Wagoner's push into markets like China, Russia and Latin America.
 G.M.'s sales slump at home, however, led to it losing its longtime title last year as the world's largest auto company, replaced by Toyota. 
 ''It's a pretty unceremonious ending,'' said John Casesa, an industry analyst and managing partner of the Casesa Shapiro Group. ''G.M. lost its way in the '70s, but the company didn't know it until 20 years late. The hole was much deeper than he realized when he became C.E.O.''
 And, Mr. Casesa said, Mr. Wagoner's finance background might have been a poor fit: ''The most successful auto companies are run by people who came out of the revenue-generating functions -- manufacturing, design, marketing -- making cars and selling cars.'' Mr. Wagoner, the analyst said, ''skipped the whole apprenticeship that most auto C.E.O.'s experience.''
 Mr. Wagoner presided over some of the biggest losses in G.M. history. In 2002, the company had predicted that it would earn $10 a share by the middle of the decade.
 Instead, G.M. lost $30.9 billion in 2008, when its per-share loss translated to more than $50 a share. G.M. stock, an economic bellwether that sold above $35 only three years ago, closed Friday at $3.62; it has fallen as low as $1.27 in the last year.
 In 1994, when he took charge of G.M.'s North American operations, the company made up 33.2 percent of auto sales in the United States. 
 Last month, G.M. represented only 18.8 percent of American car and truck sales, according to statistics from Motor Intelligence, which tracks industry data.
 Under pressure to stop G.M.'s sliding market share, Mr. Wagoner hired Robert A. Lutz, a longtime auto industry executive, in 2002. Mr. Lutz reorganized G.M.'s product development operations, and introduced a number of new vehicles, including sporty models like the Pontiac Solstice and Saturn Sky.
 Both Mr. Lutz, who had previously announced his plans to retire by year's end, and Mr. Wagoner have championed the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid electric car that G.M. plans to introduce in late 2010. 
 Mr. Wagoner has said that one of the moves he regretted most was G.M's decision to kill the EV-1, an electric car that it leased to customers in the late 1990s. Although the vehicle was not profitable, it helped G.M.'s image with environmentalists, which in 2006 Mr. Wagoner conceded he had understood too late.
 Only six months ago, Mr. Wagoner stood in front of hundreds of G.M. employees in the atrium of the company's Detroit headquarters, celebrating the automaker's 100th anniversary.
 Dressed in a gray suit and a yellow, blue and white striped tie, Mr. Wagoner said: ''So, what's our assignment for today and tomorrow? Above all, it's to demonstrate to the world that we are more than a 100-year-old company. We're a company that's ready to lead for 100 years to come.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (73%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1281 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Cash for a Clunker? Enthusiasm Builds for Helping a Shift to Fuel-Efficient Cars

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Washington and Clifford Krauss from Houston. Nelson D. Schwartz contributed from Paris.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Finally, a bailout for truly needy Americans: the owners of gas-guzzling, rust-bucket, heap-of-junk, rattletrap pieces of -- well, let's just say jalopies. 
 A concept embraced by President Obama on Monday as part his effort to save General Motors and Chrysler from collapse would provide cash to buyers of new fuel-efficient cars -- if they traded in a clunker. 
 Similar incentive programs overseas have lifted automobile sales despite the awful economy. In Germany, an offer of about $3,290 for trade-ins helped to increase February car sales there by 21.5 percent from a year earlier, a 10-year high, according to the German Association of the Automotive Industry. 
 In the United States, the economic stimulus bill adopted in February provides a tax incentive for the purchase of new cars this year, but Mr. Obama said Monday that he supported lawmakers who wanted to take more aggressive steps, offering not just a rebate on the sales tax, but a large cash incentive for trade-ins. 
 A bill in the House, sponsored by Representative Betty Sutton of Ohio, would do just that, offering incentives to owners who replace cars built before the 2001 model year. 
 Ms. Sutton's measure would give those trading in an old car a $4,000 voucher that could be used to buy a new car that was assembled in the United States and has a fuel efficiency rating of 27 miles per gallon. A car assembled elsewhere in North America would have to get 30 miles per gallon to qualify for the $4,000. And cars that are both assembled in the United States and rated at 30 miles per gallon would fetch a $5,000 voucher.
 Officials said the program could cost $2 billion or more depending on how long it operated. Ms. Sutton said the most important thing was to get the program started quickly. ''The urgency for its initiation is extraordinary,'' she said. 
 A similar bill in the Senate would provide slightly less generous subsidies, and is aimed more at protecting the environment than spurring car sales. 
 The Senate measure would offer up to $4,500 for the trade-in of gas guzzlers up to seven years old, $3,000 for cars that are eight to 10 years old and $2,500 for cars older than that. The Senate bill is not limited to cars assembled in North America. 
 ''Such fleet modernization programs, which provide a generous credit to consumers who turn in old, less fuel-efficient cars and purchase cleaner cars, have been successful in boosting auto sales in a number of European countries,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I want to work with Congress to identify parts of the Recovery Act that could be trimmed to fund such a program and make it retroactive starting today.'' 
 But Mr. Obama called for using money already allocated in the $787 billion economic recovery legislation, meaning that other programs would have to be cut to provide the new vouchers to car buyers, a process that could face political opposition.
 Limiting the program to cars built or assembled in North America could also draw protests from trading partners, who may contend that the rules violate international trade agreements. Nearly a dozen European countries have adopted programs offering cash to drivers who trade old cars for more energy-efficient models. Those programs are not limited to vehicles manufactured in Europe or any specific country. 
 American auto dealerships, which have been going out of business steadily in the last six months, were generally supportive of the trade-in incentives. 
 ''The Germans started this a few months ago, and it did help stimulate their auto business,'' noted Annette Sykora, a past chairwoman of the National Automobile Dealers Association and owner of two dealerships outside Lubbock, Tex. 
 Ms. Sykora added, however, ''The No. 1 thing dealers need is a freeing up of credit, and I didn't see that in the announcement today.'' 
 Differing variants of ''cash for clunkers'' programs have been tested in California, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Texas, Virginia and a handful of Canadian provinces, and are now being implemented in Texas and California. 
 In California, a statewide program has been in effect for about a decade, and it is about to be expanded. Drivers whose vehicle fails a smog check are entitled to have their car scrapped and are paid $1,000 in return. The payment is increased to $1,500 for low-income drivers. About 20,000 vehicles are taken off the road every year through this program, according to the California New Car Dealers Association.
 The state is preparing a new version of the program to begin in January, with the goal of scrapping an additional 60,000 vehicles a year. The new program will not require that a vehicle fail a smog test, and it will include vouchers to buy new vehicles paid for by new car registration fees.
 The Texas program, which has been in effect for about a year, gives low-income drivers vouchers of up to $3,500 to trade in cars that meet various conditions including a failed emissions test or have been on the road for over a decade. The program serves only parts of the state, including the Austin, Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston metropolitan areas. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1999 Ford Excursion, which could qualify for a voucher if Congress approves the program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); SALES TAX (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); SALES REBATES (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BETTY SUTTON (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1282 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Defending Budget Deal

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and legislative leaders on Monday defended their secretive negotiations and the eye-popping $131.8 billion budget they produced over the weekend, even as they warned that further deterioration in the economy could force them to return to the bargaining table in the coming months.
 In a subdued appearance in the Capitol, Mr. Paterson, joined by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Malcolm A. Smith, described the deal as a necessary consensus between cutting spending and finding new revenue in the face of a large, and continually growing, budget gap. 
 ''I think that there's a balance now between taxes on higher incomes and taxes on everybody, so that there's a shared sacrifice,'' Mr. Paterson said. He also said that he might have to revisit cuts to services and so-called nuisance taxes -- like levies on sugared sodas and downloaded songs -- that he agreed to abandon in the new deal.
 ''I would like to tell you that this budget brings about the end of our fiscal crisis, but I can't do that; that would be intellectually dishonest,'' Mr. Paterson said. But the deal was an important step, he added. ''We can see the light at the end of the tunnel.''
 But as outside analysts began poring over hundreds of pages of the budget, they said they saw little evidence of stern spending discipline, even in the face of a major recession. In closing a budget deficit that in the end surpassed $17 billion, lawmakers relied on billions of dollars in new taxes and fees, some of which may not even raise as much revenue as hoped if the economy continues to worsen. And like every Albany budget, whether in good years or bad, this one includes $170 million worth of what critics call pork-barrel spending for lawmakers' pet projects.
 ''The disappointment from the business community is that the Legislature doesn't seem to understand how serious this crisis is, and that it threatens our future,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business trade group. ''The response -- of holding the state budget basically harmless -- just doesn't fly with people who are cutting salaries, laying people off and aren't sure where their business is going.'' 
 Mr. Paterson and his staff appear to have won significant concessions from the health care sector by overhauling outdated Medicaid reimbursements, while shifting money away from expensive in-patient care to preventative care and clinics. Over time, officials said, that shift would save both operating costs and capital money.
 But the figure known as state operating funds, which indicates how much money is flowing out of the state's treasury in a given year excluding federal dollars and spending on long-term capital projects, will not fall for next fiscal year. Instead, it will rise to $79.2 billion from $78.6 billion or by just under 1 percent -- despite the cratering economy, the collapse of Wall Street and the sea of red ink that has resulted.
 Much of the deficit was papered over with about $6.2 billion in federal stimulus money, financing that will disappear in two years, whether or not there is an economic recovery that boosts state revenues enough to make up the difference. 
 ''What does the future hold? One way of looking at that is, New York -- and every other state -- are going to be in desperate straits if the federal stimulus money runs out in two years,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, an Albany research organization. ''It won't be long until the drumbeat starts to make this a longer-lasting enhancement of federal aid.''
 Though Mr. Paterson said that he had won about $6.5 billion in cuts, much of that consists of slowdowns in spending rather than year-to-year cuts. Total Medicaid spending, for example, will rise this year, to $48.6 billion from $45.3 billion, though some of that increase has come from new people joining the Medicaid rolls as a consequence of the recession. 
 Other reductions are only spending cuts in the technical sense, such as the elimination of $1.5 billion in property tax rebates under the School Tax Relief program, known as STAR. (The program's mainstay tax exemptions, costing about $3.3 billion, will continue.) In pocketbook terms, cutting the rebates will mean higher property taxes for homeowners.
 Mr. Paterson's budget office does not count that figure as part of the roughly $5.3 billion in new or increased taxes and fees in the budget, including about $4 billion in new income taxes on high earners, increased taxes on utilities and new fees for drivers' licenses, hunting and more.
 Nor does the deal count as new $120 million in additional taxes on health insurers that were technically agreed to in a deficit reduction plan the Legislature passed last month. That plan, designed to eliminate mid-year deficits in the current budget, also included recurring provisions that will apply for the year that begins Wednesday.
 Senate Republicans said on Monday that the budget increased taxes and fees by more than $8 billion when counting measures such as the overhaul of the state's Empire Zone program of business tax credits.
 ''Governor Paterson referred to this budget as a 'work in progress,' '' said the Republican leader in the Senate, Dean G. Skelos. ''That means taxpayers should watch their wallets because the governor, Senator Smith and Speaker Silver have clearly shown a strong appetite for higher taxes and more spending that likely will not stop with this budget, if it is enacted in the coming days.'' 
 The process was so opaque that even veteran lobbyists and interest groups did not know exactly what would emerge when the budget proposal began printing late on Saturday night. Many were still sorting through the bills on Monday morning and discovering previously unknown cuts and fees. Neither the Senate nor the Assembly produced their own budget proposals, as was standard in past years, and even most lawmakers were kept in the dark. 
 ''Is everybody happy with this process? I can't say yes,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I would ask that the public understand that we did the best we could under difficult situations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MEDICAID (64%); HEALTH CARE (60%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1283 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT GIVES U.S. AUTOMAKERS A SHORT LIFELINE

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and BILL VLASIC; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Washington and Bill Vlasic from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama delivered an ultimatum to General Motors and Chrysler on Monday, telling them to adopt radical changes in short order or face bankruptcy -- a move that came after a series of somber discussions in which he concluded that a controlled bankruptcy might be the best way to reorganize the two ailing auto giants.
 In the end, the president decided to throw the companies a short lifeline. He gave G.M. 60 days and Chrysler one month to avert bankruptcy and restructure on their own. 
 But during that period, Mr. Obama warned on Monday, the automakers will have to drastically reshape their businesses in a way that experts say will severely shrink them. 
 For G.M., the president's decision means not only the loss of its chief executive, Rick Wagoner, who was forced out as part of the deal, but also some tough negotiations with the United Automobile Workers and bondholders, who have thus far balked at the company's demands.
 Now the union will be asked to make even bigger concessions on a new wage and benefits contract and health benefits for retirees. The bondholders will most likely be forced to accept a deep discount on the price of their debt as well as agree to take G.M. stock in lieu of debt repayments. 
 Chrysler, meanwhile, must hurry up a merger deal with the Italian automaker Fiat.
 The Obama administration has concluded that Chrysler is not viable as a stand-alone company, and is giving the automaker until April 30 to complete the Fiat merger or face a cutoff of taxpayer help.
 If the merger is successful, the administration will consider giving Chrysler $6 billion in additional taxpayer aid.
 Mr. Obama decided early on that simply letting the companies fail was not an option, his advisers said. But faced with what one senior official called ''no good options,'' the president struggled to reconcile his conclusion that G.M. and Chrysler were not viable with his determination to save an industry that he called ''an emblem of the American spirit.''
 ''Year after year, decade after decade, we've seen problems papered over and tough choices kicked down the road, even as foreign competitors outpaced us,'' Mr. Obama said in announcing his decision at the White House. ''Well, we have reached the end of that road.''
 While Michigan lawmakers privately balked at the president's decision to cite bankruptcy, analysts said that by raising the specter of bankruptcy for the two companies, Mr. Obama might have made it easier for both to win concessions. And at least one lawmaker seemed to agree.
 ''They hopefully will see that they have a pretty stark choice in terms of working something out,'' said Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, who learned of the plan Sunday night when the president called him and other Michigan lawmakers from the Oval Office. ''Their option is either to take a haircut or a bath.''
 Indeed, on Monday, Fiat's chief executive released a statement indicating he was eager to forge an alliance with Chrysler, and Mr. Obama said Fiat had committed to building fuel-efficient cars and engines in the United States. 
 G.M. said in a statement that it would ''take whatever steps are necessary to successfully restructure the company'' even if it meant a court-supervised process.
 ''It's really about keeping the pressure on the parties, and the government's doing a good job of that,'' said Van Conway, a partner with Conway MacKenzie & Dunleavy, a turnaround consulting firm in Birmingham, Mich. ''As unfair as it is to take any concession in business, you've got to take the best alternative you're given in a situation.''
 The United Automobile Workers did not respond to several requests for comment on Monday.
 The talk of bankruptcy rattled the overall stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 254.16 points, or 3.27 percent, to close at 7,522.02. G.M.'s shares also took a beating, closing down 92 cents at $2.70.
 Throughout his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama talked in stern tones about how the nation's auto industry needed to improve its ways. His statement from the White House on Monday -- an aggressive move, particularly from a Democratic president, to force the industry to revamp itself or lose government aid -- represented an extraordinary moment in American manufacturing history, and another weighty moment in a presidency that has been filled with them.
 The internal debate that led to the announcement culminated in two back-to-back 45-minute sessions in the Oval Office last Thursday. Members of Mr. Obama's auto task force, led by two former investment bankers, Steven Rattner and Ronald Bloom, presented the president with what one senior administration official called ''an incredibly difficult and painful set of decisions.''
 Perhaps the thorniest was the question of bankruptcy. Like his predecessor, former President George W. Bush, Mr. Obama felt that a chaotic bankruptcy would be disastrous for the companies and the broader economy. 
 But the task force was considering another idea: the prospect of using what the administration official called ''the quick, surgical legal tools that exist in our bankruptcy code'' to restructure the companies in a clean and efficient way. The problem was how to explain it to a public that is spooked by the mention of the word bankruptcy.
 After debating the ramifications and risks, Mr. Obama concluded he had to put the bankruptcy option on the table and discuss it, as he did Monday. 
 ''What I'm not talking about is a process where a company is simply broken up, sold off and no longer exists,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're not talking about that. And what I'm not talking about is a company that's stuck in court for years.''
 But Michigan lawmakers were deeply skeptical when Mr. Obama telephoned them Sunday evening from the Oval Office to disclose his plans. 
 Representative John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who is the longest-serving member of the House, warned the president that bankruptcy was ''like a war or marriage; it's easy to get into, hard to get out of,'' according to one participant in the discussion.
 At the Oval Office session, Mr. Obama also weighed another move that did not sit well with the Michigan delegation -- the decision to push Mr. Wagoner, the G.M. chief executive, into involuntary retirement. 
 Senator Levin said the lawmakers, while saddened, did not challenge the president. 
 ''He had made the decision that this kind of change was necessary to kind of signal to the public that there was going to be a real effort to make a fresh start,'' Mr. Levin said. ''There wasn't much point in arguing whether or not it was fair or unfair, wise or unwise. It was a decision that he didn't ask us about, he informed us of.''
 Mr. Wagoner will not receive a severance payment but instead will get a pension and other benefits worth about $23 million, to be paid in installments over the rest of his life, according to Equilar, a compensation consulting firm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaking at the White House on Monday, President Obama said the automakers must radically reshape their businesses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MERGERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FIAT SPA (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICK WAGONER (58%); CARL LEVIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1284 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Car Dealer in Chief

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Some companies are in the steel business, some are in the cookie business, but General Motors is in the restructuring business. For 30 years, G.M. has been restructuring itself toward long-term viability. 
 For all these years, G.M.'s market share has endured a long, steady slide. But this has not stopped the waves of restructuring. The PowerPoints have flowed, and always there has been the promise that with just one more cost-cutting push, sustainability nirvana will be at hand. 
 There are many experts who think that the whole restructuring strategy is misbegotten. These experts think that costs are not the real problem. The real problem is the product. The cars are not good enough. The management is insular. The reputation is fatally damaged. 
 But if you are in the restructuring business, you can't let these stray thoughts get in the way of your restructuring. After all, restructuring is your life. Restructuring is forever. Restructuring is like what dieting is for many of us: You think about it every day. You believe it's about to work. Nothing really changes.
 When the economy cratered last fall, the professionals at G.M. went into Super-Duper Restructuring Overdrive. In October, they warned the Bush administration of a possible bankruptcy filing and started restructuring. In December, they came back asking for a loan while they ... (wait for it) ... restructured. 
 The Bush advisers decided in December that bankruptcy without preparation would be a disaster. They decided what all administrations decide -- that the best time for a bankruptcy filing is a few months from now, and it always will be. In the meantime, restructuring would continue, federally subsidized.
 Today, G.M. and Chrysler have once again come up with restructuring plans. By an amazing coincidence, the plans are again insufficient. In an extremely precedented move, the Obama administration has decided that the best time for possible bankruptcy is -- a few months from now. The restructuring will continue. 
 But this, President Obama declares, is G.M.'s last chance. Honestly. Really.
 No kidding.
 Could this really be true? Could the Harvard Business Review's longest-running soap opera possibly be coming to an end? Could President Obama really scare the restructural recidivists in Detroit into coming up with changes big enough to do the job?
 Well, the president certainly acted tough on Monday. In a show of force, he released plans from his Office of People Who Are Much Smarter Than You Are. These plans insert the government into the car business in all sorts of ways. They pick winners (new C.E.O. Fritz Henderson) and losers (Rick Wagoner). They basically send Chrysler off into the sunset. Joe Biden will be doing car commercials within weeks. 
 The Obama team also raised the bankruptcy specter more explicitly than ever before. Even more tellingly, the administration moved to ''stand behind'' the companies' service warranties. That lays the groundwork for a bankruptcy procedure and should be a sharp shock to Detroit.
 And yet by enmeshing the White House so deeply into G.M., Obama has increased the odds that March's menacing threat will lead to June's wobbly wiggle-out. The Obama administration and the Democratic Party are now completely implicated in the coming G.M. wreck. Over the next few months, the White House will be subject to a gigantic lobbying barrage. The Midwestern delegations, swing states all, will pull out all the stops to prevent plant foreclosures. Unions will be furious if the Obama-run company rips up the union contract. Is the White House ready for the headline ''Obama to Middle America: Drop Dead''? It would take a party with a political death wish to see this through.
 Furthermore, there's no reason to think the umpteenth restructuring will produce compelling results. Cost control without a quality revolution will make little difference. There's no reason to think Americans are going to flock to G.M. cars. (The president lauded their fantabulousness, but G.M. sales fell 51 percent during the first two months of this year while the overall market declined by 39 percent.) Politically expedient environmental demands will make the odds of profitability even more remote.
 Corporate welfare rarely works when the government invests in rising firms. The odds are really grim when it tries to subsidize fading ones. (In the '80s, Chrysler already had the successful K-car in the pipeline.)
 The most likely outcome, sad to say, is some semiserious restructuring plan, with or without court involvement, to be followed by long-term government intervention and backdoor subsidies forever. That will amount to the world's most expensive jobs program. It will preserve the overcapacity in the market, create zombie companies and thus hurt Ford. It will raise the protectionist threat as politicians seek to protect the car companies they now run. 
 It would have been better to keep a distance from G.M. and prepare the region for a structured bankruptcy process. Instead, Obama leapt in. His intentions were good, but getting out with honor will require a ruthless tenacity that is beyond any living politician. 
 Bob Herbert is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (61%); MARKET SHARE (57%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); RICK WAGONER (58%); JOE BIDEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009



1285 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: New York Special Election Is Special Case

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Voters in a House district in New York will elect a replacement on Tuesday for Kirsten E. Gillibrand, the Democrat who replaced Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Senate after Mrs. Clinton became secretary of state. 
 Even before a vote was cast, the contest was freighted with all kinds of political significance -- an early test of President Obama's political strength, a verdict on the stimulus package, a do-or-die moment for a new Republican national chairman, an early sign of how the 2010 midterm elections are going to go (never mind that they are 20 months way). 
 To a certain extent, all this is understandable. The new president has invested some political capital in the Democratic candidate, Scott Murphy. Mr. Obama's image appears in an advertisement that the Democratic National Committee ran in the upstate district -- albeit not often -- and Mr. Obama's name is affixed to thousands of e-mail messages that the national committee sent out urging voters to support Mr. Murphy. And Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has taped a radio advertisement on Mr. Murphy's behalf. 
 Michael Steele, the new Republican chairman who is trying to get beyond a rocky start, has identified this race as a top target for the Republican National Committee. He has campaigned in the district twice on behalf of the Republican candidate, James N. Tedisco, a state assemblyman. Mr. Steele has directed money and resources toward winning the seat, which was solidly Republican until Ms. Gillibrand snatched it away from a troubled incumbent in 2006.
 It is also the first special election since Mr. Obama took office -- ''It's the only game in D.C. for people to talk about,'' said David Wasserman, House editor of the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter -- and the contest is being fought against the backdrop of the sharp partisan division over Mr. Obama's economic plan. 
 ''It's going to be seen as a referendum on President Obama and the stimulus package, and a referendum on Albany's popularity, and a referendum on Gillibrand's popularity,'' said Howard Wolfson, a Democratic consultant who advised Ms. Gillibrand in her 2006 campaign. 
 In truth, special elections tend to get more attention and analysis than they deserve (guilty, your honor), and while they might briefly raise or lower the political temperature, they tend not to be predictive of much at all. And in this case, there are many extraneous factors at play, and there is enough conflicting data about the political dynamics of the race to permit either side to make at least a plausible argument that it will win.
 ''The first thing you can count on is this thing is going to be way overspun,'' said Tom Davis, a former Virginia congressman and onetime head of the Republican campaign committee in the House. ''I don't think it portends a thing for the midterms. But it emboldens whoever wins.''
 That said, a few lessons will certainly be drawn from the race.
 The decision by the Democratic National Committee to feature Mr. Obama -- understandable, given his popularity -- could carry some small risk to the president. Should Mr. Murphy lose, the result will be seized on by Republicans as evidence that Mr. Obama's power is fading, though how far this line of thought will travel is an open question. 
 ''I think that's why he only put a toe in,'' Mr. Davis said. ''The tradition on this is, in special elections, the president's candidate typically loses.''
 Potentially more interesting, though, is what the vote will say about the political potency of the battle over the stimulus package -- whether House Republicans, who voted unanimously against it, made a mistake in putting up a unified front. 
 Mr. Murphy supported the package; Mr. Tedisco equivocated until, after being taunted by Democrats, he finally said he would have voted against it. By every account, Mr. Tedisco's awkward handling of the issue helped to transform the race.
 ''Here's what I think you do know here: when the Democrats stood strong -- when Murphy said, 'I support the stimulus plan' -- he closed the gap 30 points,'' said Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff. ''You know and I know this should not be dead even.''
 Mr. Wasserman, of the Cook Report, said: ''The race is pretty even right now. But it didn't start out that way. Republicans started with a known figure. Democrats started off with someone who isn't known.''
 In the closing stage of the campaign, Republicans attempted to focus attention on the Democratic Congress's deletion of a clause in the stimulus bill that might have prevented the payment of some bonuses to executives of American Insurance Group. Mr. Tedisco used the move to link Mr. Murphy, a venture capitalist, to the bonuses issue, a flash point for many voters.
 Until Ms. Gillibrand's victory in 2006, the 20th Congressional District was solidly Republican; it was one of just six districts in the state that voted for George W. Bush in 2000. 
 In 2004, the Republican incumbent, John E. Sweeney, was re-elected with 66 percent of the vote; two years later, he narrowly lost to Ms. Gillibrand after his campaign became embroiled in a series of embarrassing episodes. Still, Republicans enjoy a 75,000 edge in voter registration in the district.
 ''The fact this race is close at all is a big deal,''' said Jen O'Malley Dillon, the executive director of the Democratic National Committee. ''It's a tough, tough district.''
 Trevor Francis, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said much the same thing, as both sides gave a preview of what they might be saying Tuesday night.
 ''This is going to be a tough one,'' Mr. Francis said. ''Obama won the district and has a 65-percent approval rating there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TOM DAVIS (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



1286 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: The Government and the Auto Industry Take a Path Strewn With Pitfalls

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
As an assertion of government control over a huge swath of the industrial landscape, President Obama's decision to reshape the automobile industry has few precedents.
 In essentially taking command of General Motors and telling Chrysler to merge with a foreign competitor or cease to exist, Mr. Obama was saying that economic conditions were sufficiently dire to justify a new level of government involvement in the management of corporate America. 
 His message amounted to an inversion of the relationship that had helped define the rise of American manufacturing might in the 20th century; now, Mr. Obama seemed to be saying, what is good for America will have to be good enough for General Motors. 
 In the past, the United States government had briefly nationalized steel makers and tried to run the railroads, with little success. In the last nine months it has taken control of the American International Group insurance firm and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, firing their management as well, at a cost that dwarfs what is unfolding in Detroit.
 But directing the fate of a vast manufacturing company, one that still looms over the Midwest, is an entirely different kind of enterprise. And at a time when economists are debating the merits of nationalizing sick banks and pouring more taxpayer money into the economy, it raised the question of whether deteriorating circumstances were leading the administration down a path to deeper intervention in the private sector. 
 In presenting the automobile plan on Monday, Mr. Obama suggested just how tricky it can be for Washington to wade into the marketplace: He declared that the government would back up warranties on Pontiacs and Buicks and the rest of the G.M. and Chrysler product lines, so that consumers would have no fear of buying those cars. 
 It may have been a necessary step, but it means that the government now is not only the ultimate guarantor of savings accounts and insurance policies -- it will also cover that blown transmission. 
 When he stood in the White House to unveil his approach, Mr. Obama took pains to assure the country -- twice -- that ''the United States government has no interest in running G.M.''
 No interest, perhaps, but also no choice. 
 After a team of his aides concluded that the latest ''viability plan'' was once again far too modest, far too optimistic and far too late -- a product of the same thinking that allowed Japan in the latter years of the 20th century to carve away one of the great American manufacturing franchises -- Mr. Obama took a step that would have been unimaginable just 12 months ago. 
 He forced out the chairman of a company that, in a previous era, would regularly send its executives to Washington to prod the gears of government. He made it clear that the White House would oversee, and heavily influence, decisions about what plants to shutter, what brands of cars to abandon and how much workers and managers will be paid. 
 And with no edge to his voice, he left hanging the threat that he might yet force G.M. into a quick, managed bankruptcy, if it was the fastest way to remake the company. That message was directed at G.M.'s reluctant bondholders, an unsubtle warning that they must negotiate to get 16 or 20 cents on the dollar -- or risk getting far less.
 Mr. Obama did not nationalize the company, at least in any technical sense. In that respect, his action on Monday differed significantly from Harry Truman's decision in 1952 to take over the nation's steel makers, at the end of the Korean War, rather than allow a United Steelworkers strike to bring production to a halt. That action was quickly overturned by the Supreme Court, which ruled that Mr. Truman did not have the authority to order the takeover.
 But Mr. Obama is not relying on a statute. His powers derive from the fact that the White House and the Treasury control the last piles of cash available to keep G.M. a going concern.
 He argued that without action, production would cease -- and the country would be left with no domestic carmakers. (He sidestepped the question of whether Japanese, German and Korean transplants in the South constitute an American industry, but clearly their model is what he is hoping to replicate and best.)
 But to Mr. Obama's critics, who have thrown around the word ''socialism,'' the distinction may be lost. And in many ways Mr. Obama's ambitions go far beyond Truman's: He displayed a willingness to use his powers expansively not just to cope with the immediate crisis, but to reshape the industry for when times get better.
 ''It should have happened years ago,'' said Mary Ann Keller, a longtime auto analyst who has been unrelentingly critical of G.M. for, in her words, ''being perpetually two years behind the curve.'' 
 ''It must have come as shock to their management, because when you think about it, the government never said no to them before,'' Ms. Keller said. ''When G.M. complained about the Japanese, the government got 'voluntary restraints' on car imports. When G.M. said it would be hurt by fuel efficiency standards, the standards were usually watered down.''
 As the company's lender of last, last resort, the government will have the final say on every significant decision until the company is turned back out into the free market. And for Mr. Obama, that entails many political risks.
 If the generous health care plans that autoworkers have grown accustomed to are pared back, if wages fall to something closer to what workers at the Japanese and German transplants in the South are paid, it will be Mr. Obama -- not G.M.'s management -- who will be blamed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

 
