

601 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: At Latest Job Fair, a Warning Not to Take Some Jobs 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
For many people attending the Twin Towers Job Expo yesterday at Madison Square Garden, the hardest part of their day might not have been finding a job.
 Rather, it was running a gantlet of aggressive recruiters for work-at-home schemes, multilevel marketing pyramids and assorted plans that promised, one way or another, to make people rich. 
 Along 33rd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, about 5,500 people lined up to enter the city's third job fair aimed at people left unemployed by the attack on the World Trade Center. But to get into the line, most of them had to first pass through a blocklong funnel formed by dozens of pamphleteers whose interests did not always seem aligned with those of the job seekers. 
They offered self-esteem seminars, training for jobs that may or may not exist, and phone numbers that, if called, promised jobs that would, for example, produce income "every time someone turns on the lights." 
The catch was that many of the jobs or training programs required the job seeker to lay out money first.
"If anybody is offering something out here that you have to pay money for, I would say that it is questionable whether it's worth anything," said Jeffrey E. Potkul, the chairman of a company called PMG Dynamics. Mr. Potkul was, in fact, offering a $44 seminar teaching a "revolutionary new structured program to enhance the process of mastering interviews, obtaining jobs and building a successful and fulfilling career in the shortest period of time." 
So, too, was it with numerous other companies, from the recognizable to the anonymous. Representatives of Primerica were there in force, recruiting people to sell insurance and other products for the company, which is a subsidiary of Citigroup, the financial services giant. Asked if it cost an applicant anything to get a job, one representative, who refused to give her name, said, "Yes, but if you write that, no one will come to the seminar."
Martha Rosario, a regional vice president for Primerica, said the training program to obtain the proper licenses to sell its financial products cost $199. "If you go somewhere else, it would cost you $700 or $800," she said.
Also in abundance were members of AmeriPlan, a multilevel marketing company that promises potential earnings of up to $4,000 in 60 days. A representative said a new salesperson could start by buying a $90 sales kit or a $294 sales kit.
Excel Communications also had agents on the streets and inside the Garden. Denise Corrigan-Dunne, a regional director of the company, which sells communications services, including Internet, long-distance and wireless phone service, was handing out business cards reading: "Start Your Own Business! No Products to Purchase No Inventory to Sell!"
All of which is, strictly speaking, true. However, Ms. Corrigan-Dunne said, a recruit will have to spend $245 to pay for manuals, videos explaining the products and for "home office support."
Some of the companies operating outside the arena -- including AmeriPlan and Primerica -- were considered legitimate enough by the organizers of the job fair to warrant having official representatives inside the Garden. But generally, city officials warned that job seekers should know what they are getting into before laying out their own money for a job.
"The only jobs the city was sponsoring were those being offered inside the arena," Anthony P. Coles, the deputy mayor who oversaw the three job fairs, said in an interview. "The ones outside were either distractions, or if they were seeking money, outright scams, and people should not be taken in."
The majority of the people who turned out yesterday and in the last six weeks for the job fairs ignored most of those offers.
Plenty of jobs were, in fact, available. Among the companies that made hires or signed up applicants for formal interviews were Century 21 Department Stores; Sprint, the telecommunications company; and AXA Advisors, the financial services company. 



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HIJACKING (75%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); ETHICS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%) LABOR; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



602 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Loss of 79,000 Jobs Adds to City's Economic Woes 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
A staggering 79,000 jobs disappeared from New York City in October, government officials announced yesterday, signaling that all the dire forecasts of economic fallout from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks may have been understated.
 Public and private forecasters have been predicting that 80,000 to 115,000 jobs would evaporate in the wake of the World Trade Center disaster -- but not all in one month. 
 The number of jobs usually rises in October, and a big loss in that month is unprecedented for the city, said James P. Brown, an analyst with the New York State Department of Labor, which has been keeping such figures since 1958.
While a fraction of the lost jobs were Wall Street positions that simply moved to New Jersey, most of the decline came from businesses laying off workers or simply closing for good. 
The enormous job losses were announced as a pile of other new reports outlined the economic damage the city has suffered since terrorists destroyed the trade center.
A study of major industries in the city, sponsored by the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, forecast at least $83 billion in losses from the trade center attack. Roughly $16 billion of that loss will not be covered by federal aid or insurance payments, the study warned.
And the Independent Budget Office, the city's fiscal watchdog agency, reported that the city's economic picture worsened to an extent not seen since the recession of 1990 and 1991. Because of the twin towers disaster and the national economic downturn, tax revenues will fall short by $925 million this year and as much as $1.8 billion next year, the office announced.
The unemployment rate in New York City actually fell slightly, from 6.3 percent to 6.2 percent when adjusted for seasonal factors. But that probably reflected the fact that many people who had lost their jobs were too discouraged or traumatized to look for new ones.
"A lot of bad news tends to make people pause; they don't run out and do job searches," said Mr. Brown of the state Labor Department.
Many economists consider the job market to be the key measure of an economy's health, and by that measure, New York City's economy is suddenly very sick indeed. Stores and shops shed 18,300 jobs, according to the New York City comptroller's office, which adjusts state data to reflect seasonal factors. Employment at restaurants and bars dropped by 13,400, and the transportation and utilities industries lost 6,900.
Wall Street, a crucial driver of employment and tax revenues in the city, shed 15,000 of its roughly 181,000 jobs in October. Some of this decline came from layoffs announced at securities firms before Sept. 11.
Other losses may be temporary, because the havoc and destruction in Lower Manhattan has forced some big Wall Street firms to move to New Jersey or Connecticut.
But those dislocated jobs should be a big concern for city officials, said Alastair Cairn, an associate principal of McKinsey and Company, one of the seven management consulting firms that, along with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, prepared the report for the New York City Partnership. That's because of the 19,000 Wall Street jobs that left the city, as many as 7,000 may never come back, he said.
And more of the 129,000 securities industry jobs that remain downtown may leave, he said, in part because companies now want to spread operations over different locations.
"There are also secondary concerns," Mr. Cairn said, adding that people say things like, "My commute is too long, I don't feel safe, the air smells bad."
And if the big Wall Street firms go -- or at least remove many employees -- so will some small businesses. Especially in Lower Manhattan, small businesses includes more than shops and restaurants, said Ian E. Novos, a senior director of KPMG, which studied small businesses for the partnership.
His data showed that Lower Manhattan is also rife with small financial firms, professionals like accountants and lawyers, employment agencies, research firms, architects, engineers and computer consultants. Many of these small firms, he said, "service big firms, and if the big firms don't come back, you have a problem."
The purpose of the partnership's study was to separate the effects of the terrorist attack from the overall economic malaise being felt nationwide, said Kathryn Wylde, president of the partnership, which represents major employers and business leaders in the city. Especially in Washington, she said, people were asking, "How is what has happened in New York different from the suffering of the rest of the country?"
The consultants found that there were $30 billion in physical losses, and projects $19 billion in economic losses between Sept. 11 and Dec. 31. What happens next year and is 2003 are wild cards, but the losses there are likely to total at least $34 billion, according to the report. And that is if the city's economy tracks the national economy, which is seldom does. If, as usual, the city is slower to recover than the nation as a whole, the total $83 billion loss could grow by about 20 percent, said Arnon A. Mishkin, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%) LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



603 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Proposes Raising Property Tax Rates 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
The Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, today proposed raising the county property tax levy by 9.5 percent -- the largest increase in 12 years and the first since Mr. Spano took office in 1998.
 If approved by the County Legislature, the proposal will end three successive years of property tax cuts that have benefited Westchester residents when decreasing federal and state aid have forced other counties to raise taxes. The property tax is expected to generate $370.5 million next year, county estimates show. 
 Mr. Spano said the tax increase was necessary to help pay for existing government programs as well as new expenses for security and public health initiatives following the Sept. 11 terror attacks. At the same time that the county's expenses have increased, he said, its revenues have decreased, largely because of a leveling off of sales tax receipts in a slowing economy.
"In times like these, everyone pays a price," said Mr. Spano, who unveiled his 2002 budget during a news conference at his office. "We at the county level have to make the hard choices. I believe we have done that, and done that responsibly. We continue to tighten our belts and control spending wherever possible." 
Mr. Spano, a Democrat who was elected to a second term last week with 72 percent of the vote, previously pledged to achieve a 15 percent reduction in property taxes by the end of his first term. But in the last three years, his proposed property tax cuts have added up to only 7.3 percent; the actual cuts adopted by the Legislature amounted to 8 percent. Mr. Spano's latest proposal would effectively erase those cuts.
For the typical homeowner in the county, that would mean an increase in the property tax rate to $4.06 per $1,000 of property value next year, from $4.04. The actual rate varies by municipality. County property taxes account for 17 percent to 20 percent of the average tax bill of a homeowner. The remaining property taxes pay for school districts, as well as city, town and village operations.
In 1990, the property tax levy was increased by 16.9 percent. The largest property tax increase in history was 32 percent in 1968, to raise money for the county's share of a newly enacted Medicaid program in New York, said Kathleen M. Carrano, the county budget director.
County legislators have until Dec. 3 to make adjustments to the budget proposal. They are scheduled to vote on the budget on Dec. 10. 
Mr. Spano's proposed $1.3 billion budget calls for a 7.3 percent increase in spending over last year, and no reductions in programs, services or currently occupied jobs. 
The only expansion would be an additional $13.4 million for public health and safety programs, for a total of $69.1 million, or an increase of 23.5 percent over last year.
The bulk of that money would pay for 106 new county positions, including 78 police officers (55 of them to be stationed at Westchester County Airport) and 7 full-time hazardous-materials technicians.
Ms. Carrano said the main reason for higher spending next year was the county's rising costs for the Medicaid program, which was expanded across the state to cover uninsured families and legal immigrants for the first time, starting last month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (94%); TAX LAW (91%); COUNTIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); MEDICAID (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE; SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



604 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Knicks Face One Rivalry At a Time

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
IT has come to this. The Miami Heat came to New York last night, and what did people want to talk about before the game? The New Jersey Nets.
 Being a traditionalist, Jeff Van Gundy was pretty frosted when the conversation veered from last night's opponents to tonight's opponents. 
 "It's not a rivalry until you meet in the playoffs," Van Gundy, the Knicks' coach, said, noting that the season had barely begun. 
"Just calm down," Van Gundy added. "This is the rivalry."
Van Gundy then punctuated his remarks by walking out of the pregame news conference, albeit with a smile on his face.
Van Gundy obviously knew what he could expect from Pat Riley's decimated team. The Knicks somehow struggled to outlast the Heat, 83-74, and afterward Van Gundy said he was "getting tired of when we bring guys back in the game, they're stiff as a board."
He also made it very clear that he was not happy with his point guards, normal dissatisfactions but particularly in a young season when the Knicks' record is only 4-5.
Van Gundy says his coaching career will never approach the intensity of his four playoff series against the Heat. It is hard to get enthusiastic about these versions of the teams, what with most of the surly old combatants scattered around the N.B.A. or even in retirement. 
For whatever reason, there was definitely a leftover feeling in the World's Most Famous Arena last night. The energy of Wednesday night, when Eric Lindros scored a goal and helped the Rangers beat his old team, the Flyers, had long since vanished into the rafters. 
They can crank up the volume on the sound system all they want and announce one more sellout, but when it's tepid in New York, it's really tepid.
New York still seems to be rocking in the euphoria of the Yankees' three straight home victories in the World Series. 
Baseball did a good job of providing a cheap and easy sports high in the awful days of September and October, but there is nothing in the world like really good news.
Nothing that the Yankees or the Jets or the Nets or the Rangers or the Islanders have done this fall can compare with the stirring color photographs of women and children in liberated Afghanistan, those huge, authentic smiles from human beings who have been rescued from misogynous thugs. Bringing hope to many thousands of people is far better than the artificial flurry of sound systems and the laser light shows of our sports arenas. 
New York has not lacked for diversion even after the Yankees finished their epic World Series. In the once-a-week sport of football, the Jets are 6-3 and the Giants are 5-4, and there have been Novembers when both were far worse. The Rangers and the Islanders are tied for first place while the Devils are mysteriously tied for last place. 
Now the Knicks must go over to New Jersey tonight to play the well-rested Nets, who are 6-1, the best start in franchise history.
"We were 2-2 against them last year, and every game is hard," Van Gundy allowed before taking his pregame walk. "They're playing really well, and Byron Scott is doing a good job."
The Nets have won all four home games but are drawing an average of only 6,547 fans. Tonight's game will surely raise that figure, but at a cost -- the Knicks have often appeared to be the home team in New Jersey.
This is the reality of doing business in the metropolitan area, where the suburban teams are defined and dominated by the skyline, however brutally altered by the tragedy of Sept. 11. 
Until further notice, the Garden still feels like the big time, even with empty seats visible. The Garden officials still announce the usual sellout of 19,763 -- the streak has reached 395, fifth-longest in league history -- by insisting the seats are sold. However, the dozens and dozens of expensive and empty purple seats resemble the world's most obvious comb-over. Many other fans show fashionably (or wisely) late. The trend of no-shows means fewer sales of the expensive souvenir jersey-of-the-month and fewer designer pretzels delivered by waiter service in the expensive seats. 
Cablevision, the friendly folks who own the Garden and the Knicks, had a very bad third quarter, partly because of financial losses on its sports teams.
What with the downturn in the economy and the blatant obsolescence of the Knicks, the Nets need some patrons, fast, and the Knicks need more victories, soon. Tonight the Knicks face the reality that the Nets just might think of this as a rivalry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Van Gundy (Barton Silverman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); MIAMI HEAT (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%) NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; NEW JERSEY NETS 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (51%)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



605 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3734 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OUTLOOK; 
Now, the Battle to Feed the Afghan Nation

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER; This article was reported and written by Barry Bearak, Elizabeth Becker and John H. Cushman Jr., with Mr. Weiner.

 BODY:
The retreat of the Taliban has opened the next critical phase of the American campaign in Afghanistan: joining the effort to deliver relief for millions of hungry, cold, sick, war-weary Afghans, thousands of them at death's door. In the end, the war against famine, disease and misery may prove as important as the military campaign in ending a generation of misrule and chaos.
 The military will be full partners in the mobilization now getting under way. NATO allies will ship food, clothing, shelter and medicine to the nations surrounding Afghanistan for United Nations relief organizations, private aid groups and intrepid Afghan truckers to deliver to people in ruined cities and shattered villages. The United States is buying millions of tons of wheat, much of it delivered in red, white and blue bags stamped USA, to help keep Afghans from starving this winter. 
 This is not pure charity. It is basic strategy, part of the West's campaign to show Afghans that the American-led coalition can help them live new lives. 
In a sign of the opportunity that has opened as the Taliban loses control, and of the urgency of eliminating the logistical and security obstacles that remain, the administrator for the United States Agency for International Development arrived yesterday in the newly claimed territory of the Northern Alliance, where fighting is continuing. As if he were a military commander at the front lines, the official, Andrew S. Natsios, was flown in a Special Forces helicopter.
Some Americans, transfixed by terrorism and threats from abroad, may want to rebuild ground zero at the World Trade Center before they think about helping Afghanistan. But the United States government recognizes that the plight of Afghanistan is "a terrible situation facing the world," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said.
"One of the great tragedies of Afghanistan right now is that a lot of these people were condemned to death long before the 11th of September by the droughts, by the situation, by the collapse of the agricultural system," Secretary Powell said.
There are other problems, some caused by America's allies in Afghanistan. In the few days since the Northern Alliance seized half the country and local warlords claimed their old fiefs, the humanitarian effort has been slowed by thievery.
An upsurge of food deliveries that was under way screeched to a halt as relief agencies recognized that it was, for the moment, far too risky to rush in. Even so, foreign staff workers who had been ejected by the Taliban are now starting to return in a mood of optimism, tempered by grim experience.
Before their work resumes, the American-led military coalition must help pave the way for aid to reach some 5 million starving people inside Afghanistan and the stark refugee camps on its borders. The aid workers may soon be protected, and to some extent assisted, by military forces sent by NATO, France, Britain, Canada and Jordan.
The military will not take over the aid operation, commanders are quick to say. But its role will be essential, both in speeding food and other supplies immediately into the country by air, and in securing the supply routes and logistical hubs for civilian relief agencies.
"We intend to continue to provide support to agencies, nongovernmental agencies, international organizations, other nations who are working humanitarian assistance," Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the commander of American forces in the region, said yesterday. "It's important to note that we certainly will not be giving them instructions. What we will be doing is giving them information, upon which they can base their decisions about where to move the humanitarian assistance."
NATO is drafting a plan to fly aid to surrounding countries, just as other organizations are doing. It would handle air traffic control and protect relief planes. In some cases, military trucks might move supplies and escorts might accompany convoys. 
The push for a NATO role is politically important. First, it associates the other countries in the alliance with the Afghan campaign, which has been waged entirely by American and British forces. Second, it helps deflect criticism of the war among Europeans, criticism that has focused on the harm to civilians.
NATO's secretary general, Lord Robertson, and the American ambassador to the organization, Nicholas K. Burns, helped propel the new strategy through the bureaucracy. There was a delay of a few days in issuing the order to plan the operation when the French became concerned about taking on missions outside of Europe. But as a humanitarian mission developed, that objection faded away.
The need is urgent. The Pentagon's highly publicized airdrops of rations represent less than 1 percent of what is needed. What is needed is wheat -- about a quarter of a million tons of it -- along with clothing, shelter and medicine for Afghan civilians.
The United States, doing what it can to help feed some of the same people it has been bombing, is paying for much of the food that the coalition is moving into Afghanistan with trucks, river barges and thousands of mules as winter sets in.
"People are dying," said Bernd McConnell, director of the United States A.I.D. program in Central Asia. "Hungry people get sick very easily when they get cold."

Local Dangers
Looting and Thuggery In an Aura of Anarchy
But war and anarchy have tangled the humanitarian lifelines, creating "fear and uncertainty," said Lindsey Davies, of the United Nations World Food Program.
Like the Taliban before them, Northern Alliance commanders have been stealing relief goods. This week, a convoy of Unicef trucks carrying 200 tons of supplies was seized, United Nations warehouses were looted of 89 tons of food and aid offices were ransacked by armed men outside Mazar-i-Sharif, where the Northern Alliance had just seized power.
During the fighting, shrapnel from an unknown source hit 20 loaded trucks headed for Afghanistan's central mountains, destroying more than 260 tons of food.
As Kabul fell, Taliban soldiers and freebooting Pashtun warlords held up hundreds of tons of the World Food Program's wheat at the border with Pakistan. The W.F.P., which has been delivering most of the aid, said it suspended shipments "in light of the tense security situation." 
The aid agencies say they have to deliver at least 52,000 tons of food every month for at least the next four months.
Today, after the first harsh blasts of winter, half a million or more people are homeless and half-starved inside Afghanistan. The United Nations says 130,000 refugees have come to Pakistan since the American bombing started in early October. Tens of thousands are shivering through the night in refugee camps. With Taliban control slipping in the south, the United Nations' refugee agency said it is worried about a new influx into Pakistan, and rushed to send more tents and blankets to the borders.
Pakistan's government, already host to roughly two million Afghan refugees, has been loath to register the new ones. Unregistered means invisible, and without means to live. "They have no tents, no shelter, they are without the basics of life," said Dr. Assadullah Menepal, who works in the makeshift Jalozai camp outside Peshawar, where more than 2,000 families have arrived since the bombing started.
They are still coming over the steep old smugglers' routes. Newly arrived refugees say they saw thousands on the road from Kabul this past week, some walking barefoot on the sharp stones, weeping and cursing.
"I saw a family on the way, a husband, a pregnant wife, carrying two small children and their belongings," said Tilawat Shah, 32, who arrived alone on Tuesday morning from Jalalabad. "They could carry them no longer. They kissed their children and left them in the mountains."
Until the new war, Afghanistan was all but abandoned by the world's diplomats as a hopeless case. After 6,000 years of civilization and a quarter-century of destruction by modern military technology, the country is in ruins. Reconstruction will take years.
But the people on the front lines of the humanitarian war say this may be be their last, best chance to help Afghanistan. 
Some relief workers, full of can-do pride, have said over the past few days that they thought they had turned a corner toward keeping millions of people fed and sheltered this winter. Flush with money and food and tents and tarpaulins, they were fiercely confident that they could maintain lifelines into Afghanistan from Pakistan, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
But in Mazar-i-Sharif, continued looting stopped the beginning of overland food shipments from Uzbekistan on Tuesday. United Nations relief workers launched a river barge instead on Wednesday. 
On Thursday, at the Khyber Pass, truckers carrying tons of food returned to World Food Program warehouses after deeming the threats of hijacking and looting in Afghanistan too grave.
Such hurdles are normal for Afghan aid workers, and the W.F.P. said this week that it was "becoming more optimistic that its race against winter and hunger to reach vulnerable populations in Afghanistan can be won." But many Afghans do not share the aid workers' optimism -- not after suffering a generation of gunmen backed by foreign powers.
Afghan refugees, past and present, are "people who have lost their land, their identities, their culture" said Fatana Ishaq Gailani, who directs the Afghanistan Women Council in Peshawar. "For years, the nations of the world -- Muslim or not -- have been watching but not caring. Now they will pay the price. This generation of Afghans has already paid the price."

The History
The Tragic Mix Of Wars and Drought
The killing in Afghanistan has gone on for 22 years like some long-running play in the theater of cruelty. In 1979, Soviet invaders brought their tanks through the mountain roads and narrow gorges. A decade of guerrilla combat was required to drive them out. Then came civil war, with its endless loop of revenge. The Taliban added a layer of puritanical purpose to the slaughter.
The sorrowful yield can be measured in corpses and refugees. With numbers so large, the inexactitude of rough estimation is needed. Most often, the total 1.5 million is used for the dead, 5 million more for those who have fled what they used to call home.
Roads, bridges, tunnels, irrigation systems, the great cohesion of homes, shops and buildings that make up a city: all these magnets for humanity showed their mortality as well. With them destroyed, life was diminished.
Generally, the refugees did not go far, limited as they were by the slow conveyance of their own feet. Most now live in neighboring Pakistan or Iran. Almost completely gone from Afghanistan is its educated elite.
In the late 1990's, the refugee flow went both in and out. Some people continued to flee combat as the Taliban pushed the Northern Alliance into an ever-smaller wedge of territory. Others returned, very often exchanging the ongoing indignities of a refugee camp for the meager earnings of a family farm.
But life in Afghanistan, however hard, was only to get worse. In 1998, war found its mortal helpmate in drought.
In that first parched year, people began selling possessions, mortgaging land, borrowing money. They found the means to make it from one season to the next, praying for the moist remedy of rain.
But 1999 was as dry as 1998, with 2000 no better. The normal coping mechanisms could not be repeated. Salable possessions had already been sold, the unpaid debts already past due.
Those fleeing war joined those fleeing hunger, and there were those, the double-damned, who fled both. By late 2000, there was a crisis of displaced people, some of them escaping Afghanistan, some just escaping their villages.
But escaping to what?
In November 2000, Pakistan closed its border, though with hundreds of smuggler trails through the steep mountains, this failed to stop the refugee flow. Pakistan then sent another signal, collecting the newcomers in Jalozai, a wretched place where 80,000 people lived on the barren soil of a dried-up riverbed. 
"Some days trucks come with water, some days no," Amir Muhammad, 58, said laconically, putting a hand on a nearby child who provided him a sickly emblem of want. "This orphan has the measles. A very high fever."
Pakistani officials, criticized for callousness, in turn criticized the world. The nation had accepted the largest burden of refugees -- and observed that international concern for their welfare had withered.
In 1981, when Afghanistan was a featured locale for cold war politics, the United Nations program for refugees in Pakistan spent $87 million, according to numbers supplied by the organization. In 2000, the total was a mere $13 million. "Donor fatigue" was cited by the heads of relief groups. To many, Afghanistan now seemed a place of continuing misery that defied solutions.
Its image had also warped. Gone were the icons of the jihad against the Soviet Union, guerrillas loping through the mountains to set an ambush. Present instead were the austere Taliban, whipping women who dared to show their ankles and imprisoning men whose beards were deemed too short.
When 2001 proved as dry as the three years before, relief agencies announced that Afghanistan was on the verge of a vast humanitarian disaster.
Nearly a million desperate Afghans were on the move; nearly 100,000 had gathered in dismal camps near Herat, in the west, drawn by the rumor of a free ration of wheat. At the end of January, a freak snowstorm hit the area and at least 150 people -- most of them children -- died in the frigidness.
Day after day, truckloads of cold, hungry people arrived in Herat, their last cash used up to pay for transportation. "We were on top of the truck and we could never cover ourselves properly," said Muhammad Ramazan, a mournful man who lost two of his children to the weather on their urgent search for food.
The United Nations again tried to reawaken the fatigued donors. It appealed for $332 million in aid to get Afghanistan through the year. But by August only $142 million had been contributed. Afghans were left to die.
Until Sept. 11, most of the world barely thought of them at all.

The People
Trading Bombs For Hunger
Now, in Peshawar, Seemi's baby is crying. Nabila dreams of returning to teaching. Laila is in a sort of aftershock.
All have survived life in the ruins of Kabul. All have survived the Taliban's cruel edicts and the crippled economy. But the American bombs, they say, finally broke their spirits and drove them from their homes.
"I was so terrified, I just took my cloak and my dress and ran," Seemi said, as the three women sat side by side at a safe house in Peshawar. She is 18, beautiful, and lost. "My husband and I had no money for food and water," she said. "We crossed the mountains on foot and came here."
Nabila is 28, and once taught kindergarten. Her husband, Muhammad Farid, is 35, and once was a banker. Some weeks ago, "the American planes came, we were terrified, and we left," Nabila said. They packed up what they could, bundled up their children as best they could, drove as far east as they could and paid what they could -- about $32, a very good month's wages in Kabul -- to rent two mules. 
They made their way over the mountains. Muhammad missed a step in the darkness and shattered his leg. The second mule carried him out of Afghanistan.
Laila lost two cousins to the bombs last week. The cousins lived so near to her that she and her husband thought they and their three-year-old son might be next, because "the Arabs" -- foreign fighters allied with the Taliban and Osama bin Laden -- lived nearby too.
"The planes wanted to hit the Arabs, but the Arabs were not being killed," she said. "We saw them, though we never talked to them. The bombs were killing innocent Afghans instead. They were killing us."

The Food Supply
The Wheat Is There; The Logistics Aren't
There is plenty of food around Afghanistan. The problem is getting it to Afghanistan. Uzbekistan government officials, for instance, have promised to open the Friendship Bridge for relief convoys as soon as they are convinced the route is safe to Mazar-i-Sharif, 50 miles south of the border. Closed since 1997, the heavy steel bridge, which was used by Soviet tanks to occupy Afghanistan, will now become the most important route for relief shipments.
Starvation is widespread in the Mazar region. But yesterday, too, the United Nations said the town remained much too dangerous to serve as a hub for a systematic relief effort.
"While there is no open street fighting, looting continues," said Ms. Davies, spokeswoman in Islamabad for the World Food Program, which has a barebones staff of eight Afghans in Mazar. "Yesterday W.F.P.'s office was re-visited by armed men and all remaining furniture was taken. The office has been stripped bare of all communications equipment and furniture."
Despite the problems, food often gets through.
At the height of the allied bombing campaign, Afghan truck drivers hired by the W.F.P. were balking at crossing into Afghanistan, where the Taliban were taxing the convoys. The food program still managed to transport 29,000 tons of wheat into the country during October. In the first two weeks of November, even more was delivered.
That was accomplished by convincing all of Afghanistan's neighbors to work with the United Nations to get relief into the country during the bombing campaign. Instead of relying on Pakistan and the southern route through Taliban country, the United Nations persuaded Iranian leaders to open their ports to a shipment of 100,000 tons of wheat from the United States and then open their borders for its delivery. Turkemnistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan also agreed to help.
"The irony of this is had this war not occurred, we wouldn't have had the resources or the access we have now -- the best access in the past decade," said Mark Bartolini, vice president of the International Rescue Committee, a nonprofit relief organization working inside Afghanistan.
With the increase in aid, particularly $320 million donated by the Bush administration, the question of actual food supplies seems to be resolved for the moment.
A shipment of 65,000 tons of wheat is en route from the United States to Iran, grain from western farmers loaded in Portland, Oregon, according to A.I.D. Storage bins in Pakistan and elsewhere in the region are filled with 90,000 tons of grain waiting to be sent to Afghanistan, and the agency has just ordered another 55,000 tons of wheat from American farmers.
"I think there is a sense of optimism," said Kim Gordon-Bates, of the International Committee of the Red Cross. "We're very glad to be back and working. But we've been in this situation in Afghanistan before and there are always unanticipated problems."

Reconstruction
The New Literal Sense Of 'Nation Building'
Secretary Powell pledged the other day, at a celebration of A.I.D.'s 40th anniversary, that victory in the war would be followed by an equally determined campaign to rebuild Afghanistan, where progress has been an exile for so long.
"When we have accomplished our mission, when the people of Afghanistan have put in a place a new government more reflective of their desires and hopes, more reflective of all the people of Afghanistan, we will be there then," he promised. "We will be there to help them rebuild. We will not abandon them."
It will cost billions, and the Pentagon said this week that it would begin immediately with repairs to runways cratered in the past six weeks by American bombs. But much of the rubble -- probably most -- was caused by the warring Afghan factions.
A good example is the Salang Tunnel, at the crest of the Hindu Kush on the main road from Kabul to Mazar-i-Sharif.
Once the tunnel, more than a mile long, was used by up to a thousand trucks a day. Then the north end was dynamited by rebels to block a Taliban advance. Later the other end was blocked by the Taliban to stave off the Northern Alliance. Fighting for control of each end has gone back and forth ever since.
The international relief agency CARE said yesterday that Canada was dispatching experts to keep mountain passes open so supplies can flow through the winter. The team's two leaders are experienced in winter expeditions and in clearing avalanche fields.
On another border, Unicef yesterday delivered 200 water tanks, water purification tablets and soap to thousands of Afghan refugees who have camped out on a muddy island in the Pyandzh River because Tajikistan refused to let them enter. Water on the island was found to be so contaminated that drinking it could be deadly.
Until recently, relief agencies could not help the Pyandzh River refugees because Taliban forces had infiltrated their camp.
Medical problems abound in Afghanistan. Before September, there were 70 foreign workers from Doctors Without Borders in the country, along with 600 Afghan employees. When the international staff evacuated on Sept. 14, they left behind two or three months' supplies, although in Kandahar the supplies were seized by the Taliban. On Tuesday and Wednesday, medical teams began to return, going to Kabul and to two Taliqan and Mazar-i-Sharif.
Overall reconstruction is a much slower business than giving vaccinations or helping stave off an outbreak of malaria. All too often, international efforts to rebuild a nation peter out for lack of money and will. 
Japan and the United States have issued invitations for governments to meet on Nov. 20 in Washington to plan a reconstruction program for Afghanistan, the State Department said yesterday. On Nov. 27, the United Nations Development Program, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are to meet in Pakistan to plan the recovery. Hundreds of participants are expected, a third of them Afghans. 
But reconstruction will start in small ways, Mr. Natsios of A.I.D. told Congress last week.
The focus, he said, was to begin long overdue efforts on a small scale, "at the community level, where security conditions are relatively stable."
"Distribution of seed for the winter wheat crop or even small-scale repairs of irrigation systems and wells can make a profound difference in the country's recovery from this crisis," he added. "If enough crops can be planted and livestock rebuilt, next year will not have to resemble this one."

More Inside

The Dangers
The History
The People
The Food Supply
Reconstruction

GRAPHIC: Photos: In New Shamshatoo Refugee Camp, Peshawar, donated wheat is life. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); FROM THE SKIES -- A woman gathers food packages airdropped near Khwaja Bahaouddin, which are then distributed to children. But Mina, a refugee in Peshawar, Pakistan, tells how her son died in the bombing of Kabul. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse, Stephen Crowley/The New York Times right ); IN THE KHYBER PASS -- Some drivers balk at driving dangerous roads. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); SIGNING IN -- At a World Food Program camp in northern Afghanistan, a fingerprint must be registered before any refugee can get wheat. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. B7) Chart/Graphs: "The Refugees"In the 1980's, when the Afghans fled the Soviet invasion there were reports of refugees walking for a month, crossing glaciers in the Hindu Kush and ducking helicopter gunships along the way. Today people are fleeing but this time they are weary. Fewer are making it across the border. "People are too malnourished," says Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "Mentally and physically they have hit the bottom." (Sarah Slobin) FLEEING WARThe United Nations estimates that before Sept. 11 more than one million people were displaced inside Afghanistan. More fled urban areas in anticipation of air strikes and when bombing started. HIDING NEAR THE BORDERMost of the refugees at the borders have not sought help or shelter in camps. In Pakistan, most are too frightened of being deported if counted at a relief camp. Eleven new camps are ready. VIOLENCEThe Makaki camp overflows with 6,000 people. Control has passed from the Taliban to the Northern Alliance. Security has been tenuous; last week a 12-year-old boy was shot and killed. ILLNESSThe Taliban-controlled Spin Boldak camp holds about 3,000 people; about 100 families sleep outside. Refugees allowed to leave that camp, arrived at the border severely ill and malnourished. OVERCROWDINGKilli Faizo was to be a temporary staging area but filled up and closed within six days. Although more than 2,400 people have moved to Roghani camp, 2,500 people still wait. What drove them outTwenty-two years of war, four years of drought, five weeks of bombing. Providing reliefBringing food to the hungry has been difficult. Borders have been closed, warehouses have been looted. Graph showing the amount of food that was moved across borders from Oct. to Nov. Graph showing the amount of food distributed from Oct. to Nov. (Sources: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees: United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs: United States Agency for International Development: Humanitarian Information Center for Afghanistan; World Food Program)(pg. B6) Map of Afghanistan highlighting the areas of violence, illness and overcrowding. (pg. B6); Map of Afghanistan highlighting the areas of drought, famine and war. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); STARVATION (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMINE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (82%); UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR THE COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001 



606 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Oil Prices Drop Sharply As Russia Rebuffs OPEC
Oil prices plunged as Russia, the biggest oil producer after Saudi Arabia, rejected OPEC's challenge to stabilize prices by sharply cutting production. Prices in New York dropped 11.6 percent. They have fallen 21 percent this week.
 The decision on Wednesday by OPEC to delay a production cut unless other major exporters did the same amounted to the declaration of a price war, analysts said. Page A1. 

Profit at Dell Beat Expectations
Rebounding from a loss in the July quarter, Dell Computer reported a third-quarter profit of $429 million. Its earnings fell by one-third from results in the period a year earlier but edged past Wall Street's estimates. Michael S. Dell, the chief executive, said Pentium 4 chips from Intel, the Windows XP operating system from Microsoft and new wireless networking products from several vendors are leading the industry to its next upgrade cycle beginning next spring or summer. C3.

AOL in Confidentiality Agreement
AOL Time Warner signed a confidentiality agreement with AT&T, allowing tentative discussions about the acquisition of AT&T's cable television business to edge forward. C10.

U.S. Sues Tax Scheme Promoters
The Justice Department filed lawsuits against three promoters of what the government contends are tax-evasion schemes that have cost it millions of dollars in taxes. C2.

Johnson & Johnson Accused of Bias
Two employees of Johnson & Johnson sued the health care company, contending it had discriminated against them and hundreds of other minority employees. C6.

A group of 25 black employees of Cargill filed a federal lawsuit accusing the company of widespread racial discrimination. C4.

Incentives in Hewlett-Compaq Deal
Senior executives of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq will receive bonus payments totaling more than $55 million if the companies merge and they stay on until September 2003, according to a filing with the government. C3.

Initial Unemployment Claims Drop
The number of workers filing initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped to 444,000, the lowest level since mid-September, the government reported. A separate report showed business inventories fell for an eighth consecutive month in September, but sales plunged 2.8 percent, pushing up the inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of the time goods sit on shelves. C2.

Blue-Chip Stocks Edge Higher
Investors lifted blue-chip shares, but technology stocks fell. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 48.78 points, to 9,872.39. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.62 points, to 1,900.57, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.03 points, to 1,142.24. C6.

Florida Group to Reward Doctors
A group of large Florida employers has decided to give financial rewards to doctors who meet certain quality standards. C5.

Catch-22 on Drugs for Poor Nations
Poor countries emerged from global trade talks with the right to make low-cost generic versions of drugs, but many of these nations cannot produce them. And they are not explicitly allowed to import such drugs from countries with thriving generic drug industries, like India and Brazil. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,872.39 up 48.78Nasdaq composite -- 1,900.57 down 2.6210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.78% up 0.25The euro -- $0.8819 down 0.0009The dollar -- 122.38 yen up 0.84 Graph: "TODAY" shows Consumer Price Index and Industrial Production figures from April to September. Consumer Price Index.October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.3% Industrial ProductionOctober figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.9% Graph tracks the jobless claims, measured in thousands, from October 12 to November 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DISCRIMINATION (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (85%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); AOL INC (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (72%); INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); AOL (NYSE) (82%); HPQ (NYSE) (72%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



607 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED -- AN OVERVIEW: NOV. 15, 2001; 
A Need for Order, the Smallpox Matter and Oil Prices

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
With the sands of war shifting rapidly in Afghanistan, the United States and its allies chose not to wait for an Islamic security force to be created, not to wait for a post-Taliban government to sort itself out, not to wait for rebels to deliver a knockout blow to Taliban troops holding out in the cities of Kandahar and Kunduz. Instead, some 80 American Special Operations troops, and twice as many British Royal Marines, landed just north of Kabul, the capital, to see that order is preserved and humanitarian aid delivered.
 HOLDING OFF ANARCHY -- In the best of worlds, the American-led coalition would have preferred not to swoop in so suddenly. But troops on the ground are urgently needed to make sure that a security vacuum does not turn into chaos, said Clare Short, a senior British official. Britain, France and Canada have said they are prepared to send in several thousand soldiers. "We need to move in days," Ms. Short said. 
 One important mission for the American allies will be to provide logistical support so that relief agencies can deliver food, medicine and clothing to about six million Afghans reported to be starving after years of war and drought. Humanitarian lifelines have repeatedly been tangled by either tyranny or anarchy. The Taliban was infamous for stealing aid. Their triumphant enemies of the Northern Alliance seem not to be behaving much better. This week, for instance, its forces seized a convoy of United Nations trucks carrying 200 tons of relief supplies.
For the United States, the brass ring is capturing Osama bin Laden and destroying his network, Al Qaeda. He remained an elusive target, but he left traces behind in a compound in Kabul, where materials suggested that Al Qaeda was working on chemical weapons and other unconventional arms.
AIRPORT SECURITY -- On Capitol Hill, lawmakers finally agreed on a bill to improve security at America's airports. The feeling was that they could not go home for Thanksgiving without resolving the Democrats' and Republicans' differences. In the end, it was not a grand day for the Republicans. They gave in to Democratic demands that 28,000 baggage screeners be made part of the federal work force, at least for three years. Provisions for possibly hiring private security contractors in a few years made it easier for the Republicans to compromise on a bill that, with White House approval, is expected to be voted into law today.
From those first minutes on Sept. 11, it was obvious that many things would no longer be the same. But the sweeping nature of some changes is breathtaking.
MOVING ON TRIBUNALS -- Military tribunals, unknown in this country since World War II, have been brought back to put suspected terrorists on trial. This presidential order has been applauded by those who do not want Mr. bin Laden and company to have opportunities to turn civilian trials into anti-American circuses. But it has also produced dismay among civil libertarians and among conservatives worried about the expansion of government powers. Unruffled by this debate, Defense Department officials drafted rules for the tribunals. One likely departure from the civilian tradition of unanimous verdicts would permit the conviction of suspected terrorists by a two-thirds vote.
SMALLPOX SAMPLES -- Smallpox, eradicated in the 1970's, was on few minds before Sept. 11, but bioterrorism suddenly put it front and center. Samples of the virus have been stored in Atlanta and in Siberia, with a longstanding assumption that they would eventually be destroyed. Not so fast, the Bush administration now says. It fears that rogue groups may have their own supplies, and it concluded that a wiser course would be for the United States and Russia to hold on to their existing stocks until someone develops a new vaccine and treatment for the disease. That could take years, maybe decades.
OIL PRICES IN FREE FALL -- The economic fallout from Sept. 11 continues. Oil prices went into a free fall, to a two-year low of $17.45 a barrel. That may be good news for American consumers, but it increases the risk of instability in Middle Eastern oil-producing states. There was also precious little to smile about in New York, the city hardest hit by terrorism. A mind-numbing 79,000 of its jobs were lost in October, a month when jobs are supposed to increase. In both business and government, economic forecasters said, belts will be worn tighter this winter. CLYDE HABERMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); STARVATION (75%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (73%); RELIGION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); APPROVALS (66%); AIRLINES (62%); LABOR FORCE (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



608 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Breaking the Circle

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Although it was never his intention, Osama bin Laden has triggered the most serious debate in years, among Muslims, about Islam's ability to adapt to modernity. In Arab states this debate is still muted. But in Pakistan and other Muslim countries with a relatively free press, writers are raising it openly and bluntly. Nothing could be more important.
 Here's why: Many Arab-Muslim states today share the same rigid political structure. Think of it as two islands: one island is occupied by the secular autocratic regimes and the business class around them. On the other island are the mullahs, imams and religious authorities who dominate Islamic practice and education, which is still based largely on traditional Koranic interpretations that are not embracing of modernity, pluralism or the equality of women. The governing bargain is that the regimes get to stay in power forever and the mullahs get a monopoly on religious practice and education forever. 
 This bargain lasted all these years because oil money, or U.S. or Soviet aid, enabled many Arab-Muslim countries to survive without opening their economies or modernizing their education systems. But as oil revenues have declined and the population of young people seeking jobs has exploded, this bargain can't hold much longer. These countries can't survive without opening up to global investment, the Internet, modern education and emancipation of their women so that they will not be competing with just half of their populations. But the more they do that, the more threatened the religious authorities feel.
Bin Laden's challenge was an attempt by the extreme Islamists to break out of their island and seize control of the secular state island. The states responded by crushing or expelling the Islamists, but without ever trying to reform the Islamic schools -- called madrasas -- or the political conditions that keep producing angry Islamist waves. So the deadly circle that produced bin Ladenism -- poverty, dictatorship and religious anti-modernism, each reinforcing the other -- just gets perpetuated. 
Some are now demanding the circle be broken. Consider this remarkable open letter to bin Laden that a Pakistani writer and businessman, Izzat Majeed, wrote in last Friday's popular Pakistani daily The Nation:
"We Muslims cannot keep blaming the West for all our ills. . . . The embarrassment of wretchedness among us is beyond repair. It is not just the poverty, the illiteracy and the absence of any commonly accepted social contract that define our sense of wretchedness; it is, rather, the increasing awareness among us that we have failed as a civil society by not confronting the historical, social and political demons within us. . . . Without a reformation in the practice of Islam that makes it move forward and not backward, there is no hope for us Muslims anywhere. We have reduced Islam to the organized hypocrisy of state-sponsored mullahism. For more than a thousand years Islam has stood still because the mullahs, who became de facto clergy instead of genuine scholars, closed the door on 'ijtehad' reinterpreting Islam in light of modernity and no one came forward with an evolving application of the message of the Holy Quran. All that the mullahs tell you today is how to go back a millennium. We have not been able to evolve a dynamic practice to bring Islam to the people in the language of their own specific era. . . . Oxford and Cambridge were the 'madrasas' of Christendom in the 13th century. Look where they are today -- among the leading institutions of education in the world. Where are our institutions of learning?"
The Protestant Reformation, melding Christianity with modernity, happened only when wealthy princes came along ready to finance and protect the breakaway reformers. But in the Muslim world today, the wealthiest princes, like Saudi Arabia's, are funding anti-modern schools from Pakistan to Bosnia, while the dictators pay off the anti-modern mullahs (or use them to whack the liberals) rather than reform them. This keeps the soil for bin Ladenism ever fertile. 
Addressing bin Laden, Mr. Majeed concluded, "The last thing Muslims need is the growing darkness in your caves. . . . Holy Prophet Muhammad, on returning from a battle, said: 'We return from little Jihad to greater Jihad.' True Jihad today is not in the hijacking of planes, but in the manufacturing of them." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); TERRORISM (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); WRITERS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); WOMEN (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); POLITICS (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); HIJACKING (68%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%) ISLAM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; KORAN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MAJEED, IZZAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



609 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: A Quick Change in Fortune Dulls the Glimmer of Houston 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
On a day when oil prices plunged to two-year lows, when the hometown Enron Corporation continued its ugly free fall and when gloomy projections showed the local economy headed for a decidedly rough patch, George Alcorn lunched on Chilean sea bass at the downtown Petroleum Club and decided that the sky was not falling.
 "I've been an optimist all my life," said Mr. Alcorn, 69, who owns an independent exploration company and survived the oil bust years of the mid-1980's. "The opportunities in this town have always been large. I don't think it's going to change at all." 
 That Mr. Alcorn could sound upbeat in such seemingly grim economic times is hardly surprising in a city largely built on pluck and buoyant optimism. Until recently, economists had predicted that the economic downturn plaguing the rest of the nation would largely bypass Houston, the nation's energy capital. In June, The Economist magazine, citing Houston's increasingly diverse economy, even promoted it as a candidate for the world's next great international city and business center.
But June is a long time ago. By then, the city had already lost 2,000 jobs from the struggling computer maker Compaq and will probably now lose thousands more if the company's merger with Hewlett-Packard is approved. In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Continental Airlines, which is based here, announced 12,000 layoffs, some likely to come in Houston. The Texas Medical Center, one of the largest medical complexes in the world, is facing financial peril after flooding in June caused an estimated $2 billion in damages.
The latest blow to the economy as well as the local psyche is the plight of Enron, the energy company that some analysts said tottered near bankruptcy before a merger with its local rival, Dynegy, was announced last week. Even if the merger goes through, the city is expected to feel a crunch; local real estate analysts say the merger could produce a glut of downtown office space at a time when new towers are under construction, including one by Enron.
One visible symbol of the changing fortunes is that two of the city's sports stadiums, Enron Field and Compaq Center, are named for companies that soon may not exist. This week, the National Association of Purchasing Management, which measures business activity and industrial production, released a report showing that Houston's economy had contracted in October after 32 consecutive months of expansion.
"Over the first half of this year, you had to feel pretty good," said Bill Gilmer, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and an authority on Houston. But Mr. Gilmer said that much of the city's recent job growth was driven by oil and gas companies and that the decline in prices meant the sector was "running out of steam."
"The national economy," Mr. Gilmer added, "is not helping out right now."
The fact that the ailing national economy is dragging on Houston is, oddly enough, evidence of the city's success in recovering from the 1980's oil bust. Then, with the local economy dominated by oil and gas, the drop in prices crushed the city and prompted civic leaders to preach economic diversification. And it worked: Compaq, Continental, the Texas Medical Center as well as dramatic growth in small business helped Houston recover and grow even faster, becoming the nation's fourth-largest city. The new generation of sophisticated energy companies, led by Enron, then created a boom.
Economists say the next several months are likely to be slow. There could be substantial layoffs if Compaq and Enron mergers take place. Mr. Gilmer said the price of oil still played a large role in the city's economy; the number of exploration rigs has dropped to roughly 1,000 from about 1,300 in recent months. 
Yet no one is predicting a reprise of the bust, when downtown office buildings stood practically empty. Instead, economists point to a relatively quick rebound. Ray Perryman, a Texas economist who runs the Perryman Group, said Houston still had an infrastructure envied by most other cities, including the city's bustling port, the nation's second largest. The city was recently named as one of four finalists to become the American entry to be host of the 2012 Olympic Games. Voters recently approved construction of a starter light rail line, and federal environmental officials recently signed off on a plan to greatly reduce air pollution.
"We're sitting here with over two million jobs," said former Mayor Bob Lanier.
The downfall of Enron, though, a company whose value dropped almost 90 percent because of accounting problems and financial distress, has been the most highly publicized and unexpected blow to the city's economy. The company had embodied the self-image that Houston business leaders hold dear: it was entrepreneurial, aggressive and ground breaking. It was also a generous civic benefactor; the company's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, a close friend of President Bush, had even been rumored as a potential mayoral candidate.
But this week, Enron's lost glory became painfully evident. In a hall at Rice University on Tuesday, Mr. Lay presented Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, with a lifetime achievement award, the Enron Prize, which Mr. Lay's company had endowed and named in flush times. The next morning, an article in The Houston Chronicle said no decision had been made on whether the name of the prize would be changed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Compaq Center, home of the N.B.A. Houston Rockets, is named for a company that soon may not exist. Enron, above, may soon be acquired by a rival energy company. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); HEALTH CARE (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SPORTS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MERGERS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); TERRORISM (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (60%); DYNEGY INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (59%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (59%) COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; TEXAS MEDICAL CENTER (HOUSTON); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; ENRON CORP; DYNEGY CORP 

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



610 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: HOMELAND DEFENSE; 
Ridge Agrees Taliban Losses May Lead to New Terrorism

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Taliban defeats in Afghanistan could lead Al Qaeda to strike back with another terrorist attack, Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, suggested today.
 Asked whether Osama bin Laden might be more likely to attack because of Taliban losses in Afghanistan, Mr. Ridge said "common sense" dictated that "if you are putting pressure on your enemy in one area or one venue, they may choose to act out in a separate area, in a different venue." 
 He said the nation's "state of readiness and wariness" was as high as it had ever been. 
Mr. Ridge said the country would remain on high alert until Mr. bin Laden was caught and his network dismantled.
As the war in Afghanistan reached a critical stage, Mr. Ridge toured an Energy Department exhibition of counterterrorism devices, addressed a conference on national security, held a town hall meeting at Hofstra University on Long Island and was interviewed tonight by Larry King on CNN. He said technological advances would be at the heart of government strategy for making the nation safer.
Mr. Ridge confirmed reports that designs for missiles, bombs and nuclear weapons were found in a Qaeda safe house in Kabul, but played down their significance. He said he was told that much of the information was widely available.
Mr. Ridge said a report in The Times of London that the information was found half-burned in Kabul was "certainly consistent" with other signs that Mr. bin Laden wanted to obtain nuclear weapons.
"It does not confirm that he has the capacity," he said. "It just shows that whether it's bin Laden or some other potential foe of this country, we have to be prepared for all eventualities, including a nuclear threat."
Several other government officials said today that all they knew about the documents was what they had read in news accounts and that they had no reason to change their assessment that Al Qaeda did not have nuclear capabilities.
Fleshing out his mission to develop a comprehensive plan for security, Mr. Ridge opened the door to a wide-ranging reorganization of the federal government.
"We will prepare not to fight the wars of the past," he said. "We must create a blueprint to win the wars of the future."
He said that the government needed to "rethink traditional missions and traditional relationships" and that the Bush administration was looking at how to realign agencies.
He cited as an example the federal agencies that handle food safety, noting that one group of inspectors looks at vegetables, another at livestock.
"Wherever you have multiple organizations that seem to be tasked to the same general area," Mr. Ridge said, "for functional improvement, for economic improvement, for security enhancement, we ought to at least take a look at whether or not we need to merge functions, merge agencies." 
Food safety responsibilities are scattered among agencies, including the Agriculture Department, the Commerce Department, the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Customs Service and the Environmental Protection Agency.
In Congress there is also pressure to merge the Border Patrol, the Customs Service and the Coast Guard, a consolidation Mr. Ridge has said he will consider. He said the administration would look at whether the National Guard needed to be reconfigured for homeland security. Thousands of National Guard troops are protecting airports, and they will be sent this week to guard the Capitol.
But Mr. Ridge said the Bush administration would deploy the regular military to handle domestic terrorist attacks only as a last resort.
Mr. Ridge said priority had to be given to standardizing training and equipment for firefighters, the police and emergency personnel across the country and creating a "seamless" communication system.
He expressed interest in more use of "biometric" cards that contain such information as fingerprints or iris scans for such things as visas or airport security. He did not speak of a national identification card.
Mr. Ridge said he was looking at the cost of homeland defense and that President Bush's next budget would "reflect the priorities of this office." He said the president had also told him that if he saw immediate needs he could propose an emergency spending package for early next year.
While many in Congress say Mr. Ridge needs more power and an independent agency, he insisted that his responsibilities were too diffuse to be put in one cabinet department.
"If they choose to create another agency, if they choose to create a cabinet position, that's fine," he said, "but I'm not applying. I already have a job, and I like it."
At the town hall meeting this evening, Mr. Ridge offered assurances that extensive security measures were in place.
"America will prevail," Mr. Ridge said. "I believe you'd have to be living in a cave not to know that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We must create a blueprint to win the wars of the future," Tom Ridge, director of homeland defense, said yesterday. He addressed a conference, National Security for a New Era, in Washington. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TALIBAN (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD SAFETY (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); HIJACKING (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (72%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); TOMMY THOMPSON (51%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); THOMPSON, TOMMY G (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



611 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Global Forecast Of Growth Is Cut 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund cut its forecasts for United States, Japanese, European and world growth for 2001 and next year, after the terrorist strikes on Sept. 11 deepened a world economic slowdown. 
 The I.M.F. reduced its forecast for world economic growth in 2001 and 2002 to 2.4 percent, a cut of 0.2 percentage point this year and 1.1 point next year, said Horst Kohler, the I.M.F.'s managing director. 
 The United States economy will grow 1.1 percent in 2001 and 0.7 percent next year, the fund said, reducing its projection for 2002 by 1.5 percentage points. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill called the reduction "off by a lot."
Japan's economy will contract 0.9 percent this year and 1.3 percent next year, Mr. Kohler said, revising a September forecast of low levels of growth in 2002.
The European Union economies will grow 1.7 percent this year and 1.4 percent next year, the fund projected, cutting its predictions by 0.1 and 0.8 percentage points, respectively. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (88%); HIJACKING (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



612 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 671 words

PERSON: Bob Eckhardt 

HEADLINE: Ex-Rep. Bob Eckhardt, 88, Liberal Democrat of Texas 

BYLINE:  By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Bob Eckhardt, who survived for 14 years in Congress as a liberal Democrat from Houston despite a constituency that was considerably to his right politically, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 88.
 His family said Mr. Eckhardt had suffered a series of strokes. 
 Mr. Eckhardt represented Texas's Eighth Congressional District from 1967 until 1981, losing his seat in the 1980 Republican landslide led by Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Eckhardt was a man of deceiving appearance. With his flowing mane, loud bow ties, Panama hats and three-piece linen suits, he looked like an old-style Southern congressman -- at least if one were to go by stereotypes, which Mr. Eckhardt spent much of his career defying.
He supported busing to achieve school desegregation and supported federal money for abortions. He opposed a constitutional amendment to allow organized prayers in public schools. Perhaps most importantly, considering the economics of his district, he repeatedly sponsored or backed legislation that oil and gas interests disliked. His influence in the energy area was considerable, since he served for a time as chairman of an oversight panel of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
Mr. Eckhardt successfully fought deregulation of natural gas prices in the late 1970's. In 1975, he wrote legislation to keep price controls on oil. He also supported antipollution bills that the petroleum and chemical interests in his district found too restrictive.
Mr. Eckhardt, who once termed himself as "something of a populist," was decidedly liberal on civil rights and labor issues. He was an early critic of United States involvement in Vietnam and in 1975 became the first Southerner to be elected chairman of the Democratic Study Group, an organization of House liberals.
Yet he was sometimes bored by the speechmaking that precedes lawmaking. To alleviate the tedium, Mr. Eckhardt drew cartoons, something he had taken up in grade school and refined as editor and chief cartoonist for a humor magazine at the University of Texas. 
During House proceedings, he drew on note pads, scrap paper or pages of the Congressional Record "to puncture the shield of sham," as he once put it. President Richard M. Nixon's ski-jump nose (not to mention his politics) made him a natural and frequent target.
Robert Christian Eckhardt was born on July 16, 1913. He graduated from the University of Texas and its School of Law, served in the Army Air Corps from 1940 to 1944 and practiced labor law before being elected to the Texas Legislature in 1958. 
Various explanations were offered for Mr. Eckhardt's survival as a liberal, first in the Texas Legislature and then in Congress. For one thing, his Texas roots ran deep. His ancestors on both his father's and mother's sides arrived from Germany in the first half of the 19th century. 
A great-grandfather fought at the Battle of San Jacinto in the Texas Revolution. A great-uncle married into the King family, which controlled the vast King Ranch. And Mr. Eckhardt's second cousin Representative Richard M. Kleberg of Texas gave the young Lyndon B. Johnson his first job in Washington.
Then, too, Mr. Eckhardt could be an entertaining speaker, whether relying on drawled puns or quotes from Shakespeare. Mr. Eckhardt, who once wrote a book on the Constitution with a Yale law professor, Charles L. Black Jr., was respected for his intellect.
In the campaigns of 1976 and 1978, oil and gas interests spent heavily in trying to oust Mr. Eckhardt. They succeeded in 1980 when he lost by 4,000 votes to a young lawyer who had never held office, Jack Fields, who served until 1997.
Mr. Eckhardt said afterward that he had no regrets. "I believed Edmund Burke's idea that a legislator should not simply be a reflection of public opinion," he said.
Mr. Eckhardt's three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by three daughters, Sarah, of Austin, Rosalind, of Durango, Colo., and Orissa Arend of New Orleans; two brothers, Norman, of Dallas, and Joseph, of Nyack, N.Y., and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Eckhardt (Associated Press, 1979) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (74%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); CHURCH & STATE (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ARMIES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) ECKHARDT, BOB; STOUT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); VIET NAM (54%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



613 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris To Change Name to Altria 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Philip Morris, the owner of one of the world's best-known corporate names, plans to change that name next year to the Altria Group, company executives said yesterday.
 The new name, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the company's annual meeting next April, is drawn from the Latin word "altus," meaning "high," and is supposed to suggest high performance, said Steven C. Parrish, the company's senior vice president for corporate affairs, in an interview at the company's headquarters in New York. 
The two tobacco companies under the Philip Morris umbrella, Philip Morris U.S.A. and Philip Morris International, will keep their names as will the food company Kraft Foods and the Miller Brewing Company, which are also owned by the consumer products conglomerate. But Philip Morris has not yet decided whether to change its stock symbol, the iconic MO. 
"Call for Altria" doesn't have the ring of the company's "Call for Philip Morrrrrr-isssss!" slogan from radio's golden age. But that might be the point. The company has taken this action, its executives say, to reduce the drag on the company's reputation that association with the world's most famous cigarette maker has caused.
"When people say 'Philip Morris,' people don't know which company you're talking about," Mr. Parrish said. "We're more than a tobacco company, obviously, but there are a lot of people who don't understand that."
"They are running away from tobacco," countered David A. Kessler, former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and now the dean of the medical school at Yale University.
Martin Feldman, a tobacco analyst for Salomon Smith Barney, said, "It marks the end of an era for the tobacco industry in the United States, " adding that the move was "of greater importance than Microsoft or G.E. changing their names." Mr. Feldman said that connection with tobacco has long depressed Philip Morris's stock price, even during the highflying days of the stock market bubble. The new name is, he said, a way of delivering on promises to become a better corporate citizen that Philip Morris made in its 1998 settlement with state attorneys general over health care costs related to tobacco use. "This is a highly symbolic gesture of its commitment to that promise," he said.
A longtime opponent of the tobacco industry, however, said a new name would not change the fact that Philip Morris's Marlboro cigarettes are by far the favorite brand of underage smokers. "It's sort of like the line from the Dragnet TV show, 'This story is true, but the names have been changed to protect the innocent,' " said Matthew L. Myers, president of the National Center for Tobacco-Free Kids. "In this case it's 'The story is true, but the names have been changed to protect the guilty.' " In the end, he said, "this is quintessential Philip Morris practice.
"Instead of changing its business practices, Philip Morris has chosen a public relations campaign to divert attention away from what it does."
Such remarks are predictable, warned the company's chief executive, Geoffrey C. Bible, in a message sent out to employees yesterday: "For sure, you can expect there will be some criticism of this proposed change. But I feel very confident that for the entire corporate enterprise, this is the right thing to do, and it is the time to do it." 
The company hired an image consulting firm, Landor Associates, which developed a long list of possible names and helped the company winnow it. Names on the short list included "Consumarc" and "Marcade," both of which carried connotations of the consumer marketplace and brand names, Mr. Parrish said.
The corporate practice of adopting vague, faux-Latinate names can help companies shed their image problems, said Michael Thibodeau, creative director of the New York office of FutureBrand, a consulting firm based in New York and London.
Mr. Thibodeau, author of "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes," a book about cigarette marketing, said that Philip Morris had been wounded in the tobacco wars, and had to erect a "fire wall" between its cigarettes and its food and beverage products.
"You don't want any carcinogenic associated with your macaroni and cheese," he said.
Mr. Thibodeau said the name suggested altruism, which is a central message that Philip Morris has tried to convey through donations to the arts and an aggressive advertising campaign that stresses such corporate good works as assisting battered women. 
Mr. Parrish said, however, that "there certainly was and is no intent to convey altruism" through the new name, because, even though "it is very much a part of the company and the culture, we're very sensitive, in part because of some of the criticism we've gotten for speaking about it."
Dr. Kessler, the former Food and Drug Administration commissioner, suggested that the name change could indicate that Philip Morris was planning to spin off the lucrative tobacco business altogether. "It signals a broader potential change in corporate strategy," he said, "that tobacco is no longer king."
Mr. Parrish disagreed. "That is not why we're doing this -- I can assure you of that," he said. "We are not lessening our commitment to the business. Philip Morris means tobacco."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The page boy's old "Call for Philip Morrrrrrisssss!" will lose some of its resonance when the company changes its name to Altria next year. (Philip Morris logo, Associated Press)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY NAME CHANGES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); SMOKING (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); HEALTH CARE (68%); TRADEMARK LAW (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LOGOTYPES; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (90%); MILLER BREWING CO (70%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES; ALTRIA (CO) 

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%) SIC2111 CIGARETTES; 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



614 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSH-PUTIN SUMMIT: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Missile Impasse: The Shape of the Deal

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Nov. 15 

 BODY:
In the end, neither President Bush, nor President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia wanted to pull the plug on the relationship they have built in the short season of summitry they started only last June.
 After a three-day summit meeting on the Texas prairie where Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin had their most intimate talks since they first laid eyes on each other in Slovenia this summer, it seemed astonishing that there was no advance on the main issue that divides them -- how to structure a new framework for strategic arms that will bind the United States and Russia well beyond their terms of office. 
 What was increasingly clear is that they are arguing how to put it all on paper and what to call that piece of paper -- a treaty or something else.
Mr. Bush came into office clearly determined not to put anything on paper about the future of America's nuclear arsenal. The cold war was over. Russia was not an enemy and, indeed, Mr. Bush said he reserved the option to tear up some paper in the form of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972, which allows either party, the United States and the former Soviet Union, to withdraw with six months notice.
The president and a number of his top advisers denigrated the era of writing things down about limits on nuclear weapons that produced all of the major arms control treaties of the last 30 years.
His irritation showed this week in Washington when he said, standing next to Mr. Putin, "I looked the man in the eye and shook his hand" on American plans for its nuclear arsenal. "And if we need to write it down on a piece of paper, I'll be glad to do that."
But write down what? 
For months, the Russian leadership has been waiting for the Bush administration to complete its review of America's nuclear future and determine how many nuclear weapons does an American president need to protect American security.
Mr. Bush promised last summer to provide the number to Mr. Putin and to link those reductions to how America would then build a missile defense shield over the United States, and perhaps over parts of Europe and Asia, too.
Debates in the Pentagon delayed a decision for months and Mr. Bush only delivered the result this week. He told Mr. Putin in Washington that the United States would reduce the number of operationally deployed nuclear weapons over the next decade to between 1,700 and 2,200, a significant reduction but short of the 1,500-warhead level that Mr. Putin was hoping for.
For Russia, this new strategic accounting was a critical element in how to respond to Mr. Bush's plan for missile defenses, which had been a dominant issue for his presidency until the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
Armed with Mr. Bush's plans for reducing the American strategic arsenal, Mr. Putin put his response on the table this week. He told Mr. Bush that the United States and Russia should now codify the levels of offensive and defensive arms in their arsenals in a new arms control treaty.
The reason is straightforward in Mr. Putin's logic. Any country that builds missile defenses can eventually seize a nuclear advantage by protecting its own territory while threatening any adversary with offensive weapons fired from behind a shield. Even among friends, the Russian leader has argued, the nuclear balance should not be left to the vagaries of handshakes. 
In Washington this week, Mr. Putin unveiled his strategy. "For the Russian part, we are prepared to present all our agreements in a treaty form, including the issues of verification and control."
He did not bring a draft treaty with him, but Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, indicated that Mr. Putin made an extensive case for a detailed agreement that would require substantial further discussion. 
"We are more than willing to talk with the Russians about various levels of codification of such an agreement," she said today. "We have not said, 'treaty.' They have said they are interested in a treaty. But this is an open discussion."
She added that Mr. Bush and his advisers are prepared to include in some new agreement part of the old arms-control treaties that insured there was no cheating.
"We have said, both of us, that we are prepared to make this verifiable in some form, perhaps even using some of the verification procedures out of former treaties," she said. "But nothing is off the table in the regard of what this actually looks like in the final analysis."
The breakthrough that had been expected here at Crawford, was based on Russia's strategic shift since Sept. 11 in support of the American campaign against terrorism, and Mr. Putin's statements that he was ready to "stretch" the ABM treaty to allow American missile defense tests.
Mr. Putin himself created the expectation that once he understood the size of the American arsenal over the next decade, he and Mr. Bush could speedily reach an agreement on codifying the reductions in offensive arms while also modifying -- or agreeing to ignore for now -- the limits the ABM treaty sets on missile defense tests. The Pentagon is preparing for such tests next spring. 
If Mr. Bush hoped to do that with a handshake, Mr. Putin showed that he believes that handshakes and trust between leaders is not enough to ensure a stable nuclear order, or address Russia's concerns that an unconstrained American power might someday bring pressure to bear that Moscow would not be able to resist.
Russian officials see a contradiction in Mr. Bush's position because any agreement on nuclear arms that will be executed over a decade will extend beyond Mr. Bush's presidency and, therefore, will be subject to modification by any future president. 
"We made great progress," Mr. Bush said today to a gymnasium full of students at Crawford High School, adding: "It's one thing for he and me to have a personal relationship. The key is that we establish a relationship between our countries strong enough that will endure beyond our presidencies."
For now, Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin are engaged in a kind of brinkmanship among friends. Mr. Bush is loathe to withdraw unilaterally from the ABM Treaty, a step that in the midst of the Afghan campaign would reignite the taunts of "unilateralism" that Mr. Bush was hearing from Europe earlier this year.
Mr. Putin is anxious to build a strong relationship with Mr. Bush and America for all the benefits that accrues to Moscow as it seeks to rebuild a devastated economy.Both powers, meanwhile, are eager to preserve and build on the remarkable rapprochement since Sept. 11. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); TERRORISM (60%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%) TYLER, PATRICK E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SLOVENIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



615 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSH-PUTIN SUMMIT; 
In 2 Leaders' Words: Cordial Discord

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference by President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia today with students at Crawford High School, as transcribed by the Federal News Service Inc. Mr. Putin's remarks were interpreted by a translator.

PRESIDENT BUSH: I wanted to bring President Putin to Crawford. I wanted him to see a state that Laura and I love. I particularly wanted him -- to be able to introduce him to the citizens of Crawford, because it's part of the state that represents the independent-minded nature of Texans. . . . We had a great dinner last night. We had a little Texas barbecue, pecan pie, a little Texas music, and I think the president really enjoyed himself. I told him he was welcome to come back next August to get a true taste of Crawford. He said, "Fine. And maybe you'd like to go to Siberia in the winter." . . .
 We've got a lot to do together. We've had great discussions in Washington, as well as here in Texas. We're both pledging to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons, offensive weapons, we have in order to make the world more secure. We're talking about ways to cooperate in antiterrorism and antiproliferation. We're talking about ways to make sure our economies can grow together. 
 What we're talking about is a new relationship, a relationship that will make your lives better when you get older, and it will make your kids' lives better as they grow up. But in order to have a new relationship, it requires a new style of leader. 
And it's my honor to welcome to central Texas a new style leader, a reformer, a man who loves his country as much as I love mine, a man who loves his wife as much as I love mine, a man who loves his daughters as much as I love my daughters and a man who's going to make a huge difference in making the world more peaceful by working closely with the United States. . . .

PRESIDENT PUTIN: It gives me a great pleasure to deal and to work with President Bush, who is a person, a man who does what he says. . . . On our way here, we didn't expect at all that things would be so warm and homely as they were at the ranch of President Bush here. Yesterday we had a surprise. But today's meeting is yet another and very pleasant surprise indeed for us. Indeed, in any country, the backbone of any country is not only the people who live in the capitals, but also -- and mostly -- the people who lives hundreds and thousands of miles from the capital. . . .
And being here, I can feel the will of this people, the will to cooperate with the Russian Federation, the will to cooperate with Russia. And I can assure you that the Russian people fully share this commitment. . . .

Q. In what ways has this summit helped bring Russia and the U.S. closer together?

MR. BUSH: Well, in order for countries to come together, the first thing that must happen is leaders must make up their mind that they want this to happen. And the more I get to know President Putin, the more I get to see his heart and soul, and the more I know we can work together in a positive way. And so any time leaders can come together and sit down and talk about key issues in a very open and honest way, it will make relations stronger in the long run.
There's no doubt the United States and Russia won't agree on every issue. But you probably don't agree with your mother on every issue. You still love her, though, don't you? Well, even though we don't agree on every issue, I still respect him and like him as a person. . . .
After long consultations with people inside our government, I announced that our government was going to reduce our nuclear arsenal, to between 1,700 and 2,200 warheads over the next decade. That's a tangible accomplishment. I shared that information with President Putin. He, too, is going to make a declaration at some point in time. In other words, this particular summit has made us closer, because we've agreed on some concrete steps as well, specific things we can do together. We're working on counterproliferation, which is an incredibly important issue, to make sure that arms and potential weapons of mass destruction do not end up in the hands of people who will be totally irresponsible, people that hate either one of our nations. . . .

Q. I was wondering if you've come to a conclusion about whether or not to deploy a national missile defense system.

MR. BUSH: This is an area that we've had a lot of discussions about. As you might remember, in the presidential campaign I said in very plain terms that I felt the ABM treaty, signed in 1972, is outdated. That the treaty was signed during a period of time when we really hated each other, and we no longer hate each other. That I view the treaty as something we need to move beyond. And I made this very clear to the president.
He understands our position, that it is in our nation's interest and, I think, his nation's interest and other peaceful nations' interest to be able to explore the ability, to explore the -- to determine whether or not we can be able to deploy defensive systems to prevent people who might have weapons of mass destruction from hurting us or holding us hostage or being able to blackmail free nations. . . .

MR. PUTIN: Our objective is a common -- both for the United States and for Russia -- the objective is to achieve security for our states, for our nations, and for the entire world. We share the concerns of the president of the United States, to the effect we must think of the future threats. And here is a common ground for our further discussions.
What we differ in is that we differ in the ways and means we perceive that are suitable for reaching the same objective. And given the nature of the relationship between the United States and Russia, one can rest assured that whatever final solution is found, it will not threaten or put to threat the interests of both our countries and of the world.
And we shall continue our discussions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (51%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



616 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Safety in the Skies

FLIGHT SAFETY BILL -- House and Senate negotiators reached agreement on an aviation security bill that requires the government to hire 28,000 employees to screen travelers and baggage at the nation's airports within one year. President Bush said he looked forward to signing the bill. A1

IN THE COCKPIT -- A tape recording of the final minutes aboard United Airlines Flight 93 documented the apparent murder of the plane's two pilots before it plunged into a Pennsylvania field. The recording was broadcast for the first time last night on ABC News. B9

AIRLINE SAFETY -- United Airlines will put Taser weapons, or stun guns, in every cockpit of its 500 planes to help pilots fend off hijackers without damaging the planes. B9

THE INDUSTRY -- The airport security industry reacted with bitterness and skepticism to the Congressional compromise that essentially puts private companies out of the passenger-screening business for at least three years. B9

Centers of Resistance

ON THE GROUND -- About 160 British marines and American Special Operations troops flew to Bagram airfield north of Kabul as Western nations rushed to assemble an international force to keep order in Afghan areas wrested from the Taliban. A1

STILL DEFIANT -- The Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, swiftly rebuffed a formal peace offer and called, in a rare interview, for the "destruction of America." B3

BATTLE LOOMS -- Talks to secure a peaceful handover of the besieged Taliban-held city of Kunduz collapsed, setting the stage for a possible battle involving thousands of Taliban troops believed to be trapped in the northern Afghan city. B3

The Search for Security

SMALLPOX STOCKS TO BE RETAINED -- The Bush administration, in a dramatic reversal, has decided that the world's remaining stocks of smallpox should be retained until scientists develop new vaccines and treatments for the disease. A1

BIOTERRORISM -- A bipartisan group of senators introduced legislation calling for $3.2 billion to fight bioterrorism, twice the amount President Bush has proposed spending. B8

MORE SPORES FOUND -- Anthrax spores were found throughout the headquarters of the tabloid publisher American Media in Boca Raton, Fla., leading officials to suspect it received more than one tainted letter. B8

HOMELAND DEFENSE -- The director of homeland security, Tom Ridge, said Taliban defeats in Afghanistan could lead Al Qaeda to retaliate with another terror attack. B8

Racing to Save Lives

DELIVERING RELIEF -- The next critical phase of the American campaign in Afghanistan -- delivering relief for millions of hungry, cold and sick Afghans -- may prove as important as the military campaign in ending a generation of misrule and chaos. A1

FOOD DROPS -- With snow already piling up in the mountain passes. the Pentagon plans to continue airdropping packets of food into Afghanistan. B7

Aftermath in New York

CITY JOBS PLUMMET -- Some 79,000 jobs disappeared from New York City in October, government officials said, in the first sign that all the dire forecasts of economic fallout from Sept. 11 might have been understated. A1

TICKET MASTER -- The New York City Fire Department was not prepared to deal with the thousands of free tickets to concerts, sporting events, cruises and vacation spots that flooded in after 343 of its members died at the trade center. Then along came a computer whiz named Howard Sherman, who devised a system to distribute the tickets that is effective and fair, as well as sad. A1

AT GROUND ZERO -- Workers have begun anchoring a crucial underground retaining wall to the bedrock beneath the trade center site, to ensure that the waters of the Hudson River do not come rushing in. B11

Afghan Power Vacuum

AFTER THE FALL -- In the provinces outlying Kabul, a battle for power is being waged by local military commanders, political leaders and anyone with a gun. A similar level of lawlessness led to the rise of Taliban in the mid-1990's. B1

NAYSAYERS NO MORE -- The doubts and questions about the Pentagon's bombing campaign in Afghanistan have given way to a giddy suspicion in Washington that things have turned for the better. B2

SHAPING OPINION -- Laura Bush will use her husband's usual Saturday radio address to speak about the oppression of women under the Taliban. B2

The Freed Missionaries

AID WORKERS -- The eight Western aid workers who spent 103 days in an Afghan prison exulted in their first full day of freedom by taking baths, putting on new clothes and giving new details of their sudden flight to freedom aboard American military helicopters. B1

RELIEF AFTER RELEASE -- In Waco, Tex., home to two of the freed aid workers, friends and neighbors reacted with a lot of joy, a lot of prayers and a lot of relief. B4

IN LONDON -- British news organizations have broken a noticeable number of news accounts in the last week, one reason being that the British government has often been more willing to divulge information to reporters than the Bush White House. B4

Civilians on the Move

COMING HOME -- Afghans who fled to Iran in recent years to escape persecution by the Taliban are now returning home by the busloads to reclaim their former lives. B5

NUCLEAR THREAT -- Foul-smelling liquids and other materials left in a compound used by Al Qaeda suggest that the terror group may have been trying to develop chemical weapons and other unconventional weapons. B5

A DECADE LATER -- The gratitude Kuwaitis felt toward America after the Persian Gulf war has been replaced by frustration and anger, as many say Americans seem bent on keeping Muslims subservient. A10

Mood of the Country

UNDER SCRUTINY -- The F.B.I.'s interviews with 5,000 Arab and Muslim men in the United States on visas have sent waves of worry across campuses, mosques and community groups in Southern California. B1

A RAMADAN LIKE NO OTHER -- With the holy month of Ramadan set to begin this week, American Muslims say their religion is attracting unprecedented scrutiny -- much of it positive, but some of it negative. B10

THE TRIBUNALS -- Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, seeking to address criticism over plans to try terrorists before military tribunals, said he would move in a "very measured and conservative" way to establish procedures for such trials. B10

MORE QUESTIONED -- Investigators next week will begin questioning more than 800 men from the Middle East who are living in the Detroit area. B10

SUSPECT SOUGHT -- Investigators say a Yemeni citizen, now the subject of a worldwide manhunt, may have been meant to be the 20th hijacker on Sept. 11 but that he failed to get into the United States. B10

Portraits of Grief B12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (91%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ANTHRAX (88%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (88%); SMALLPOX (86%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); AL-QAEDA (65%); VACCINES (65%); RELIGION (50%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



617 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Peres Calls Palestinian State Israel's 'Best Bet' for Peace 

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 

 BODY:
Echoing President Bush's call for a separate state of Palestine, the Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres, told the General Assembly today that there was "broad agreement" that the creation of an independent Palestinian state "is the best bet."
 "A Palestinian state -- which enables the Palestinians to breathe freedom, to initiate a new economy, to maintain their traditions, and enjoy the highest level of education -- will also provide for real security," Mr. Peres said. "As far as Israel is concerned, we are convinced that good neighbors are better than good guns." 
 He did not say this was the position of Israel; the government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has not yet proclaimed itself in favor of a Palestinian state. He explained later that he was expressing his own position and "the feelings of many Israelis."
"I do not see any other solution for Palestinians or for us or for peace in the future," he said.
But even if unofficial, and coming from one of Israel's most enduring doves, the reference to a Palestinian state by an Israeli at the United Nations reveals how rapidly the notion has become generally accepted. "Yesterday, you would hardly find, for example, support for a Palestinian state," Mr. Peres remarked.
The statement reflected, too, the anticipation that the Bush administration would soon begin a new effort to revive the negotiating process after 14 months of violence. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to outline the new effort in a speech on Monday, though officials in Washington said the plan was not yet firm.
The Israeli-Arab conflict has been a strong secondary theme at the General Assembly, which has been dominated by the campaign against terrorism. But instead of the condemnations of Israel that were the stuff of all third-world speeches in the past, many nations have taken a more measured tone, citing the war on terrorism as a reason why the conflict must be resolved.
Mr. Peres took note of this in a brief exchange with reporters. "From our standpoint, we see a major change in the structure of the United Nations," he said. "Until now, the Arab camp enjoyed the support of three groups -- the Arab group, the Islamic bloc and the nonaligned. It was an almost automatic majority against us, and we couldn't stand a chance to win on any suggestion. What happened in our eyes is the disappearance of nonaligned nations. All important nations are aligning themselves against terror. The two largest countries, China and India, are joining in with Latin American, African nations."
In Gaza, the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, today called on the United Nations Security Council to "establish an international mechanism" that would oblige the Israelis and Palestinians to immediately resume negotiations on a final settlement, and would dispatch international observers to Israel. 
Mr. Arafat made the remarks in a broadcast marking the 13th anniversary of the symbolic declaration of a Palestinian state by the Palestine Liberation Organization. The proposal was a variation on Mr. Arafat's call at the United Nations last Saturday for an international conference to propose a comprehensive framework for a permanent solution.
Mr. Arafat said then that "interim solutions" were no longer viable. Mr. Sharon has been seeking negotiations on partial agreements. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); TERRORISM (86%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); RELIGION (50%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) SCHMEMANN, SERGE; PERES, SHIMON (MIN); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



618 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Bush and Putin Banter But Can't Close ABM Deal
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, ending their three-day summit meeting with warm jokes and a pledge to bring stability to Afghanistan, made no visible progress on amending the treaty that constrains Washington's plan to test an antimissile system. A12

The Pentagon is moving ahead with plans for missile defense testing and construction work that could violate the treaty sometime next year, officials said. But Pentagon officials asserted that their plans did not mean the Bush administration was prepared to unilaterally abandon the treaty at this point. A13

West Bank Disturbances
Violent protests by hundreds of Palestinians against Palestinian officers' arrest of a leading militant continued for the second night in Jenin. The anger of the demonstrators exposed the widening rift between Yasir Arafat and young militant leaders. A3

Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, echoing President Bush's call for a Palestinian state, told the United Nations General Assembly that there was "broad agreement" that creation of an independent Palestinian state "is the best bet." He said he was expressing his own, unofficial view. A5

Steadying Argentina's Economy
The governors of the three largest provinces signed an agreement that cut public spending and introduced a large amount of scrip of questionable value into the economy, giving a lift to President Fernando de la Rua's effort to avert a financial meltdown. A5

Controls on French Leaders
Parliament voted to overhaul a decades-old system of giving the prime minister's office millions of dollars without ever asking for a public accounting of its spending. The system was highlighted by inquiries into President Jacques Chirac's use of the cash for family trips in the 1990's. A7

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A14-22

Partial Vote Tally Favors Hoffa in Teamster Election
James P. Hoffa claimed victory in his bid for re-election as Teamsters union president. With about half the votes counted after three days, Mr. Hoffa had 66 percent of the vote to 34 percent for Tom Leedham, the president of an Oregon Teamsters local. A14

Senate Farm Bill Advances
The Senate Agriculture Committee approved an $88 billion bill that puts no limits on subsidies to the wealthiest farmers and raises spending for conservation and food stamps. Democrats from the farm belt blocked any reduction of subsidies. A22

EDUCATION

Levy and Bloomberg to Talk
Mayor-elect Bloomberg is to have a lunchtime chat with Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy today in what may be the first step toward deciding Mr. Levy's future. D1

Study Backs Inmate Education
Inmates who receive schooling -- through vocational training or classes at the high school or college level -- are far less likely to return to prison within three years of their release, according to a study for the Department of Education. A22

OBITUARIES A23

Frank Messer
A Yankees broadcast announcer for 18 seasons, he was was 76. A23

NEW YORK/REGION D1-11

Nearly 80,000 Jobs Lost Since Attack on City
Some 79,000 jobs disappeared from New York City in October, government officials said, signaling that dire forecasts of economic fallout from the Sept. 11 terror attack might have been understated. A1

Mayor-elect Bloomberg urged the White House to reconsider opposing a measure to provide billions immediately to help the city rebuild. D4

U.S. Prosecutor Departing
Mary Jo White, a Clinton appointee who oversaw the prosecution of major terror cases for the last eight years, said she would step down as the United States attorney in Manhattan by the end of the year. D1

Turbulence Before Crash
Investigators said after an initial review of American Airlines Flight 587's flight data recorder that seconds before the crew lost control and the plane began to break up, the Airbus A300 passed through the powerful air turbulence left by the Boeing 747 that preceded it. But they could not yet say if that caused the crash. D1

Neediest Cases D4

SPORTS S1-7

Clemens Gets 6th Cy Young
Roger Clemens became the first Yankee since 1978 to be honored as the best pitcher in the American League and the first pitcher to win the award with three separate teams. S1

Olympics Case Dismissed
A federal judge dismissed all remaining charges in the bribery scandal involving the two chief organizers of Salt Lake City's bid to win the 2002 Winter Olympics. S1

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-42

'Harry Potter'
The film adaptation of J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" opens nationwide today. A review by Elvis Mitchell. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Oil Prices in Free Fall
Prices dropped 11.6 percent, to $17.45 a barrel, as Russia, the world's biggest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, rejected a challenge from OPEC to stabilize prices by sharply cutting production. For the week, crude oil prices have fallen 21 percent. A1

The American economy is poised to receive a much needed lift from lower energy costs, analysts said. C1

A New Leader at Lazard
Bruce Wasserstein, 53, a Wall Street deal maker who rose to prominence in the '80s, took the top executive job at Lazard, an investment bank adrift after a string of defections. C1

Name Change for Philip Morris
Philip Morris, the owner of one of the world's best-known corporate names, plans to change that name next year to the Altria Group in an effort to distance itself from its Philip Morris tobacco products, which will keep their names. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: A travesty of justice; barbecues and missile shields; action at last on airport security.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E27
Public Lives D2
Weather C11

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); RIOTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); MAYORS (64%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); SHIMON PERES (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001 



619 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Factory Output and Inflation Continued to Be Weak in October 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Industrial output fell for the 13th consecutive month in October while inflation at the consumer level was mild, according to reports today that strengthened expectations of another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve next month.
 Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 1.1 percent in October, the biggest decrease since November 1990, the Federal Reserve said. 
 The latest decline, which followed a 1 percent drop in September, was the 13th consecutive one, the longest string of declines since the 15 months ended July 1932, when the nation was in the midst of the Depression. 
In another report, the Labor Department said consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in October as energy costs had their biggest drop in more than 15 years. The so-called core index, which excludes the more volatile food and energy sectors, rose 0.2 percent for the fourth consecutive month.
Analysts said the reports suggested that a turnaround in the hard-hit factory sector, and in the overall economy, remained distant, while inflation was under wraps. Both are situations that give the Federal Reserve a green light to cut interest rates at its meeting on Dec. 11.
The Fed has cut rates 10 times this year -- 3 times since Sept. 11 -- to their lowest level in 40 years in an effort to jump-start the economy. 
"There are no inflationary pressures, so policy makers can certainly apply as much stimulus as they like," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisers in Columbus, Ohio.
Weakness was seen throughout the Fed's industrial production report, a closely watched gauge of the health of the manufacturing sector, and was especially deep in the automobile, primary metals, lumber and furniture industries. 
The data suggested that companies were continuing to hold off ordering goods as they tried to further cut inventories, which expanded quickly when the economic slowdown began last year. 
"The manufacturing sector basically has been put on hold," said Richard DeKaser, the chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. "Retailers, wholesalers and manufacturers find themselves again with more stuff on hand than they want." 
Production of cars and related parts fell 4.2 percent in October and was down 10.3 percent from a year earlier. Output in the high-technology sector fell 0.7 percent last month and was down 12.5 percent from its level of a year earlier.
The portion of production capacity put to use by industries in October slid to 74.8 percent, the lowest since June 1983, from 75.7 percent in September. 
The decline in the Consumer Price Index, a gauge of inflation pressures, last month was led by a sharp drop in energy costs, which slid 6.3 percent after a 2.6 percent rise in September. The drop was the steepest since March 1986, the report said.
Natural gas costs slid 6.8 percent last month, the biggest decline on record. 
Not only is such a decline in energy prices considered good for inflation, it also frees up money for consumers to spend on other items, a crucial development since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change (May 2000-Oct. 2001)Oct.: -1.1%Sept.: -0.1Aug.: -0.4(Source: Federal Reserve Board) Chart: "Capacity Utilization"Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Operating Rates (May 2000-Oct. 2001)Oct.: 74.8%Sept.: 75.7Aug.: 76.6(Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (63%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (63%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



620 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Correspondent; 
In a State of Denial

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
California cynics offer a variety of ulterior motives for Gov. Gray Davis's announcement early this month, on flimsy evidence, that terrorists might have put the state's bridges on a target list. "Giuliani envy" is one explanation I heard during a few days roaming the state where I grew up; a hapless-seeming Democrat facing re-election might relish the chance to step forward in a crisis, especially with a backdrop as majestic as the Golden Gate. Or perhaps it was just political inoculation. Our leaders may not know what to do about the vague fears that beset us, but next time they sure intend to say "We told you so."
 Personally, I'd understand if Mr. Davis was just looking for a little sympathy. California has been suffering some miseries of its own these days, and it gets less notice from the rest of the country than Uzbekistan. Even California isn't paying much attention. As John Burton, the State Senate leader, laments, between Afghanistan and anthrax, "You could rob a bank and murder the cashier and you wouldn't make the front page." 
 The bad news here begins with the economy, which stinks. This is the epicenter of the dot-bomb, the edge of the ailing Pacific Rim and now a major casualty of tourist malaise. Even good news is bad news. Remember the energy crisis? It's a glut now, thanks to new supplies and a slackening of demand brought on by steeper rates and conservation inducements that Mr. Davis sponsored. What a relief, except that back when the situation felt desperate the governor locked the state into 10-year contracts at high prices. Mr. Davis says indignantly that the energy crisis was "a monumental scam"; if so, it's a scam he fell for. Maybe at least the water crisis will turn out to be real.
Other worries are less tangible. California, where no single race constitutes a majority, is closely watched for clues about America's future as a white-minority society. During the past five years, when jobs have been plentiful, the resentment that gave birth to the infamous Proposition 187, expelling the children of illegal immigrants from California public schools, has abated. Some experts fear that tough economic times -- and the suspicions generated by Sept. 11 -- may bring a resurgence of anti-immigrant feeling.
In Hollywood, the angst manifests itself in talk of a great creative disorientation following Sept. 11. Have our movies made the world hate us? Dare we go on producing mindless daisy-cutter flicks? My friend Sheryl Longin, screenwriter for "Dick" and other films, argues that in fact formula-driven, risk-averse corporate culture long ago dried up Hollywood's creative juices, and Sept. 11 is just a convenient excuse for permanent ennui. Whatever.
Now, California is a famously rewarding source of drive-by anthropology. The cover stories tend to lurch from one lurid extreme to another -- the celestial frontier or the apocalyptic dead end, the font of innovation or a vacuous wasteland, free love or suburban angst. In truth this great freak show of a state embodies all the generalizations and defies them, depending on which valley you visit. California may have the economy of France (whose national wealth it surpassed this summer), but it has the cohesion of Yugoslavia.
In San Francisco the bursting of the dot-com bubble, following upon the withdrawal of important corporate headquarters like Chevron and Bank of America and followed by the desertion of all the tourists, has laid some serious waste. Bright young techies are voting with their U-Hauls, emptying a lot of high-end apartments. They say that even Willie Brown, the nimble autocrat and patronage master who runs the city like a personal fief, may be in political trouble. 
But drive down the peninsula to the more established tech communities, and the dispirited humor ("What's the new Silicon Valley status symbol? A job.") has given way to a buzz of new start-up opportunities -- the impending wireless boom, new sensors that will revolutionize a slew of industries, new opportunities in security, a sudden infatuation with the defense industry. Optimists will tell you that Silicon Valley has always been cyclical, and that the collapse has liberated a lot of brain power from a stock-option-induced slumber. "Failure is an essential part of our ecosystem," said Paul Saffo, a Menlo Park technology forecaster. "It's like a forest fire burning space for new growth."
So it is not the apocalypse yet; it is not even the early 1990's, when defense cutbacks cost the state 200,000 aerospace jobs that never came back. 
What does unite the state, and does hurt, is the state government, which plays a disproportionate role in California because the neo-populist tax revolt of the late 70's starved any ambition out of local government. Here, even such universally local services as schools are heavily dependent on Sacramento.
This week the analysts in Sacramento added up all the lost taxes from those imploded dot-com fortunes and forecast a walloping $12.4 billion deficit over the next two fiscal years. That does not include billions the state is paying on those pricey energy contracts, money the state is supposed to get back through a bond issue that is hung up in an argument over who's to blame for the mess.
Why should anyone outside California care? For one thing, California's condition is symptomatic of state budgets across the country. Since states are prohibited from running deficits, they must either raise taxes or cut spending. So just when Washington is supposedly pumping money into the national bloodstream in hopes of stimulating a recovery, the states are doing exactly the opposite. 
The intriguing thing is that the grim news has scarcely registered here. The Public Policy Institute in San Francisco published an interesting poll this week. Most reports of the poll seized on President Bush's 80 percent approval rating, admittedly pretty astounding in a state he lost by 1.2 million votes and then treated with something like disdain. What caught the eye of the pollster, Mark Baldassare, though, was a weird disconnect in the state psyche. It's a polling truism that when people feel the economy curdling they grow pessimistic. This week's poll found Californians deeply gloomy about the economy, but incongruously convinced that the state "is headed in the right direction."
Mr. Baldassare, a longtime scholar of opinion in California, said he could recall nothing like it. He speculates that it reflects "a wish that things will be O.K."
"I don't want to call it denial," he said, but it is "not really sustainable."
You might think the biggest decline in state revenues in half a century would offer an opportunity for some of that Giuliani-style leadership that is now in fashion. But politicians have judged us unready for sacrifice; and they may be right. 
Governor Davis's plan seems to consist of some modest spending cuts, much of them from programs that affect the non-voting poor, and a prayer that the economy will right itself by next summer, in time for his re-election. And you won't find other officials arguing for a tax increase. This is California, after all, which lives under the delusion that it is brutally overtaxed, although it ranks 33rd out of the 50 states in tax burden. The Republican governor Pete Wilson, faced with a more dire economic crisis in the early 90's, raised taxes and had a near-death experience. (He recovered by becoming a born-again tax cutter and immigrant-basher. Lesson learned.)
A couple of weeks ago Governor Davis invited a crowd of industry and labor leaders to Disney Studios in Burbank, soliciting suggestions for the state's economic hurt. One by one they laid aside narrow self-interest and . . . Uh, no, wait. One by one they demanded new tax breaks for their own industries, in the name of the greater good. Tax incentives for the movie industry. A sales tax holiday for computer sales -- no, make that all retailers. A research and development tax credit for biotechnology -- better yet, for all new technology. A reduction in the fuel tax for airplanes. It was the same kind of flag-wrapped self-interest that is all the rage in Washington.
There is a guy across the bay in Emeryville who has wrapped nine stories of his office building in a vinyl American flag, and someone has suggested painting stars and stripes on the big HOLLYWOOD sign, but if the world has changed in ways that call forth some fundamental changes in our priorities, the fact has not sunk in yet in our most populous state. You can say it's just California, where self-indulgence is imbedded in the culture. But I'm inclined to agree with the great apostle of the West Wallace Stegner, who said California was just like the rest of the country, only more so.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); HIJACKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CHILDREN (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); FILM (63%); DRAMA LITERATURE (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); CORPORATE CULTURE (60%); GOVERNORS (58%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) CALIFORNIA; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



621 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTIONS; 
Exploring the Flaws in the Notion of the 'Root Causes' of Terror

BYLINE:  By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
Since Sept. 11, few phrases have become as familiar as "root causes." Forthright condemnations of the attacks have often been accompanied by assertions that, ultimately, the "root causes" of terror must also be addressed. And the implication is that if those causes are not eliminated, terrorism can be expected to continue. 
 It is remarkable how much agreement there is on the nature of these root causes. Many American intellectuals have cited American policy toward Israel, the poverty of Arab lands and inequalities and inequities reinforced by Western actions. The Vatican Synod in October, after condemning the "horror of terrorism," called for the elimination of the root causes of poverty and inequality. And similar declarations were made by many nations at the United Nations this week. 
 But it is worth thinking about just what premises about terrorism and fundamentalism lie behind these arguments.
First of all, these judgments accept a view of terror that has been held by many terrorist groups throughout modern history. The theory is that terrorism is an extreme reaction to grievous and long-festering injustices that have not been redressed by other means. Such claims were made by European anarchists at the beginning of the 20th century, by the radical Baader-Meinhoff gang in the 1970's and, of course, by Islamic terrorist groups ranging from Hezbollah to Al Qaeda. This might be called the "injustice theory" of terrorism and it is now widely held. 
But at the very least this theory is inconsistently applied. Timothy McVeigh and his collaborators, for example, asserted that their ideas of rights and liberty were being violated and that the only recourse was terror: the Oklahoma City bombing. Yet, no one suggested that his act had its "root causes" in an injustice that needed to be rectified to prevent further terrorism. The injustice theory is apparently invoked only when one sympathizes with its conclusions.
The current invocations of injustice theory are also seriously flawed. Consider just one supposed root cause of Islamic terrorism: poverty. The implication is that to help stop terror, poverty must be ameliorated. There are, of course, very good reasons to eliminate poverty. Yet while some poverty-stricken people may engage in terror, there may be no essential relationship. Poverty can easily exist without terror (think of the American Depression). And terror can easily thrive without poverty.
The European fundamentalist wars between Protestants and Catholics, which involved substantial terror, crossed all economic boundaries. The left-wing terrorists of the 1970's and 80's were solidly middle class. The leaders and many of the main operatives in contemporary Islamic terrorist groups are, at the very least, middle class; some Al Qaeda operatives were highly educated; and bin Laden, of course, is a multimillionaire.
Moreover, the injustice theory, with its list of root causes, leaves no room for religious passion, irrational ambitions or cultural and tribal schisms. So it is unable to take into account the role played by fundamentalism. For fundamentalism, as the term is now used, involves a set of beliefs that lie beyond particular resentments. Fundamentalism can even be associated with a self-sacrificial renunciation of material pleasures; even suicide is sanctioned if it will further the fundamentalist goal. Under fundamentalism, in both its religious and political forms, every aspect of life is governed by a single set of ideas. All of history, all of natural law and all actions of the divinity, are seen as leading up to the present moment, granting incomparable power and authority to the fundamentalist. Those laws also demand that they be accepted universally and that great battles must be waged on their behalf. 
The fundamentalist does not believe these ideas have any limits or boundaries. Goals are not restricted to a particular place or a particular time. The place is every place; the time is eternity. That is why fundamentalism is often expansionist; it must extend its reach as part of the great battle. In this context, one man's terrorist, as the maxim goes, is far from being just another man's freedom fighter. The goals of fundamentalist terror are not to eliminate injustice but to eliminate opposition.
This is precisely the sort of mental universe that the philosopher Hannah Arendt associated with what she called "totalitarian terror." Writing more than a half-century ago, she was primarily thinking of Nazi Germany and Stalin's Soviet Union, but the ideas have far greater resonance.
Like fundamentalist terror, totalitarian terror leaves no aspect of life exempt from the battle being waged. The state is felt to be the apotheosis of political and natural law, and it strives to extend that law over all of humanity. Reality, Arendt suggested, never modifies totalitarian ideas; events do not prove those ideas wrong or diminish belief. Instead, totalitarianism modifies perceptions of reality to suit the ideas; the world is changed to fit with the vision of totalitarianism. Nothing is allowed to stand in the way of totalitarian ideas. Opposition is guilt, punishment is death.
If contemporary Islamic terror can be considered a variety of totalitarian terror, it becomes clearer just how limited the injustice theory and the question of "root causes" are. No doubt, injustices and policies can be argued over, but not as root causes of terror. Totalitarianism stands above such niceties. No injustices, separately or together, necessarily lead to totalitarianism and no mitigation of injustice, however defined, will eliminate its unwavering beliefs, absolutist control and unbounded ambitions. Claims of "root causes" are distractions from the real work at hand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ruined Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, which was blown up in April 1995. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (88%); HIJACKING (78%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); HISTORY (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



622 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
New Game, New Rules

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
There is nothing particularly remarkable about Amway's newest store, which opened six weeks ago in the lobby of a cookie-cutter apartment block in this southern Chinese city. Except that it exists at all.
 A few customers prowl the aisles, scooping up tubes of toothpaste and jars of protein powder. Above them, a flat-screen television offers perky testimonials about Amway's products. Fu Mingxia, the Chinese women's diving champion and Amway spokeswoman, beams from posters on the walls. 
 Amway, the direct marketer based in Ada, Mich., does not have stores in the United States, Europe, Africa -- anywhere, in fact, other than China. Everywhere else, it relies solely on a vast army of independent distributors, who buy Amway's cosmetics and household products from the company and sell them door to door. 
Why the difference? In 1998, Amway agreed to open dozens of stores here as part of a deal with Beijing that allowed it to keep doing business in China after the government had banned direct sales companies.
Amway executives describe the arrangement as a "revolutionary break with tradition." But it was not so different from the bargains that other foreign companies struck with the Chinese in return for access to the world's most populous market. China, as old hands say, plays by its own rules.
Now, though, China has been accepted into the World Trade Organization. In signing a 900-page membership form at the organization's meeting in Doha, Qatar, last Sunday, the Chinese government has pledged to play by the world's rules.
Even though Amway has adjusted well to China's capricious rules, it, like all kinds of foreign companies doing business in China, is welcoming the change.
"We cannot afford any more sudden changes in policy, having invested so much," said Eva Cheng, the chief executive of Amway Greater China. "But I genuinely believe that China will commit to the rules. For the first time, we will be able to see transparent laws and regulations."
China's entry into the trade organization has thrown a spotlight on the opportunities for foreign companies once Beijing cuts import tariffs and lifts restrictions on outside ownership of Chinese assets.
Outsiders are also looking hungrily at China's state-owned companies, which have lucrative franchises in telecommunications, banking, and other industries. China has promised to stop subsidizing these leviathans, and to open their monopolies to local and foreign competition.
Of all the benefits of China's membership, however, none may have a more immediate and lasting effect on foreign investors than the establishment of a more consistent code of commercial regulations.
To comply with the W.T.O., the Chinese government will have to pass hundreds of new laws on virtually every aspect of commerce. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation has pledged to publish all of them, and says it will not enforce any law that is not published.
"That may sound obvious to us, but it has huge implications for companies in China," said Andrew Rothman, a former American diplomat in Beijing who is now a strategist for CLSA Emerging Markets there.
In addition to accepting substantially lower tariffs and quotas, China has agreed to set up an internationally acceptable legal system to resolve commercial disputes. That will reduce the danger for foreign companies of being blindsided by arbitrary government rulings or policy reversals.
Doing business in China will never be a by-the-numbers exercise. Analysts predict that provincial and municipal officials will still try to impose regulations on foreign companies -- some of which are likely to violate W.T.O. rules and even countermand the central government.
"Are people still going to butt up against local interests? Of course," said Richard Margolis, a China strategist at Merrill Lynch. "But the chances of getting caught up in a Kafkaesque maze are lower."
Mr. Margolis noted that the World Trade Organization may not prevent Beijing from taking action against companies if it believes their practices pose a threat to China's social stability.
Consider the case of Amway. In 1998, China became alarmed by a rash of unscrupulous door-to-door sales companies, which promised riches to people if they bought goods and resold them to their friends and neighbors.
These companies supplied the agents with shoddy, often overpriced products, and refused to give them refunds on unsold merchandise. Riots erupted.
Aside from selling products to its distributors, Amway did none of these things. But the government put it and two other foreign companies, Mary Kay and Avon Products, into this category. In Chinese, the phrase for direct sales -- chuan xiao -- is synonymous with pyramid scheme.
Direct sales companies have not been immune from these complaints in the United States. Amway also once mixed Christian evangelical teaching with its instructions on how to sell products. But its sales agents here say the focus in China is purely on business. And nobody has suggested that the company's products are of poor quality.
When Beijing outlawed direct selling in April 1998, Amway was effectively put out of business. Its sales in China plummeted from $170 million in 1997 to $39 million in 1998. Soap and toothpaste piled up in its sprawling factory in Guangzhou. Its 70,000 sales agents were suddenly without work.
"We suffered tremendously," Ms. Cheng said. "The ban wiped out both ethical companies and pyramid schemes."
Desperate to stay afloat, Amway and seven other such companies reached an agreement with the government. They would no longer sell products to their agents. And they would open stores, so that customers could be confident that they were not fly-by-night operations.
In return, China allowed the companies to continue selling goods door to door, using employees who work for commissions. As with other arrangements between foreign companies and the Chinese government, it was a face-saving solution -- a compromise that allowed both sides to claim victory.
"We showed respect to the government," Ms. Cheng said. "In return, the government showed respect to the company."
In this sense, Amway fared better than other foreign investors. When the Chinese government decided two years ago to sell shares in one of its mobile phone companies, China Unicom, it dissolved 40 partnerships the company had struck with companies like Sprint and France Telecom.
Although the companies were compensated for their investments, they lost what they hoped would be an entree into the Chinese market. Unicom became a symbol of the arbitrary nature of contracts in China.
Amway has not done badly using its hybrid model. It now has 130,000 sales agents in China. After the free fall in 1998, its sales rebounded to $77 million in 1999 and $288 million last year. Officials at the company say Amway may generate $500 million in sales in China this year.
Still, the company's attenuated status in China rankles executives. They would like to revert to Amway's tried-and-true business model, on which it has built a worldwide company with sales of more than $5 billion. On this score, China's entry into the W.T.O. could prove decisive.
Beijing has agreed to phase out restrictions within three years on selling products away from a fixed location. Once the Chinese government permits direct selling, it plans to regulate the industry to help curb abuses.
That is no small point. Amway's brush with extinction in China left its executives nervous. By establishing rules of the road, Beijing will give companies like Amway less reason to fear future rude surprises.
"It's not going to be a rose garden," Ms. Cheng said. "But I believe China will protect decent, law-abiding foreign companies."
Amway and its competitors will benefit from the World Trade Organization in another critical way. Within a year of China's entry, they will no longer be restricted to selling products manufactured in China.
Today, Amway sells 140 of its 450 products in China. All these are produced at the company's factory and warehouse in an industrial park outside Guangzhou. To meet the rising demand, the company is expanding the plant from 624,000 square feet to nearly a million square feet.
In the future, Amway will be able to import and sell goods from the United States. That will allow it to experiment with new products, without having to set up a new assembly line in Guangzhou.
Amway will need that flexibility. Ms. Cheng noted that Avon and Mary Kay were also "growing nicely" in China. When Beijing legalizes direct selling, plenty of Chinese companies will join the fray.
That is why polishing Amway's reputation is so important to the company. Even after China lifts the restrictions on direct selling, Amway may not close its 58 stores immediately. Ms. Cheng said they gave the company credibility among customers, some of whom still worry about being exploited.
In April, Ms. Cheng stopped recruiting new sales agents for two months to improve the practices of the existing ones. She said the ranks had grown so quickly that people did not know enough about Amway's products.
Even among Amway's most seasoned agents, educating people about the company's methods is a stiff challenge.
"Direct selling is a confusing concept in China," said Matthew Du, a top sales agent in Shanghai. "If there were laws regulating the industry, it would be a lot easier for Amway to do business in China."
Mr. Du, who worked as an Amway distributor in New Jersey before returning to China in 1995, said he tried to sell customers on the quality of Amway's products. He acknowledged, however, that as China becomes more developed, its domestic consumer products will soon be as good as Amway's.
By then, Mr. Du said, Amway's prime selling point will be its superior service. Like other agents, he cultivates his best customers, inviting them to his apartment for product demonstrations. Beyond lower tariffs or better market access, he sees China's membership in the W.T.O. as a stamp of approval.
"We're excited about those things, but we're more excited about the legitimacy of the company," Mr. Du said. "That's what really concerns us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, customers buy products at an Amway store in Guangzhou, China. Below, Amway workers pack cartons of dishwashing liquid on an assembly line at the company's factory and warehouse, also situated in Guangzhou. (Photographs by Mark Landler/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Workers pack boxes of soap at Amway's factory and warehouse in Guangzhou, China. The company and others like it expect to benefit from China's entry into the World Trade Organization. (Mark Landler/The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); LEGISLATION (85%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL LAW (72%); TRENDS (72%); DIVING (71%); WOMEN (71%); COSMETICS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) AMWAY CORP; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%) SOUTH CHINA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); QATAR (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



623 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: COMMODITIES; 
Mexico Seen Trying to Halt Oil Price War

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Mexico, a nation with divided sympathies about how much oil should cost, is setting out on a round of shuttle diplomacy that analysts here said seemed intended to head off an oil price war.
 Ernesto Martens, Mexico's energy secretary, will fly to Moscow on Saturday for talks with Russia's energy minister, Igor Yusufov, and will then visit Norway. 
 Mexico, Russia and Norway are the three most important oil exporters that are not members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC's recent efforts to curb production and raise prices fell apart because OPEC was unable to persuade nonmembers, and Russia especially, to hold back oil from the market. 
Analysts in Mexico City say that Mr. Martens will try to persuade Russia and Norway to cooperate with OPEC. Mexico has tentatively pledged to reduce its output by up to 100,000 barrels a day if the others agree to significant cuts of their own; OPEC has been pressing nonmember producers to cut back by 500,000 barrels a day. 
Mexico finds itself in a peculiar predicament. Though it is a major crude oil exporter, it imports refined products like gasoline and fuel oil, so its consumers suffer somewhat when oil prices rise. And because 80 percent of its oil exports go to the United States, its most important trading partner across the board, it is acutely sensitive to economic conditions there.
Since the terror attacks on Sept. 11, Mexico's economy has contracted drastically, in part because of a falloff in orders from America for manufactured goods. Some 400,000 Mexican workers have been laid off this year.
The tourism industry, the country's third-largest source of foreign income, has also suffered substantially in recent months despite efforts to promote Mexico as a safe destination. And remittances from Mexicans living in the United States are expected to dwindle because so many have lost jobs north of the border.
For these reasons, many analysts here say that Mexico's economic interests may be better served, at least in the short term, by low oil prices rather than high. If cheap energy stimulates the United States economy, the thinking goes, it can pull Mexico out of its own recession.
On the other side is Mexico's dependence on oil for government revenue. President Vicente Fox recently presented a federal budget to Congress built on the assumption that a barrel of Mexican crude will sell for no less than about $17 on the open market next year. (Today, the benchmark price for light sweet crude for delivery next month closed up slightly, at $18.03 a barrel, after falling $4 in two days.)
In a nation where oil exports and the taxes on them account for almost 30 percent of the federal budget, Mr. Fox cannot afford persistently low oil prices.
"The only purpose Mexico has for going to Russia is to argue that they cooperate with OPEC," said George Baker, president of Mexico Energy Intelligence. "Mexican authorities are going as a kind of unofficial affiliate of OPEC to deliver the message that Russia has more to gain by cooperating than by not, and this is a message better delivered by someone not from OPEC."
Mexico, which has been an independent producer of oil for decades, has often suffered when oil prices stay low for long periods. In recent years, Mexican energy authorities have taken on a greater role as go-betweens in international talks between OPEC and nonmember nations. In 1999, when oil dropped below $10 a barrel, Mexico played an important part in reaching an agreement with OPEC and Norway that lifted prices.
This time, analysts said, Russia's position is the crucial one for the success of Mr. Martens's efforts.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since June 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PRICE CUTTING (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TERRORISM (64%); TOURISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%) GORI, GRAHAM; MARTENS, ERNESTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) MEXICO (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) MEXICO; RUSSIA; NORWAY

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



624 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: 3 Asian Exporting Countries Show More Signs of Trouble 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
The difficulties that Asia faces in pulling out of an accelerating economic slump were thrown in stark relief by developments in three of its most important economies today. 
 Singapore and Taiwan each reported sharp economic contractions in the third quarter that were among their worst in decades. Both countries are suffering from having made a specialty of manufacturing electronics and high-technology goods for export, largely to the United States and Japan, a sector that is slumping badly. 
 Exports account for half of Taiwan's economic output, which shrank by 4.2 percent in the third quarter from the period in 2000. Singapore depends on exports for more than nine-tenths of its economy, and it experienced an even sharper fall, 5.6 percent, from the quarter a year ago.
Japan is heavily export-dependent as well, but its economy is many times the size of Singapore's or Taiwan's, and its gross domestic product is not falling nearly so steeply. Still, policy makers here face a deepening impasse on how to combat the country's latest recession, its fourth in a decade.
Despite the economic weakness and accelerating deflation, the Bank of Japan concluded a two-day policy meeting today with a decision to leave monetary policy unchanged, again dismissing calls by political leaders and some economists for radical measures to stimulate investment and demand. 
To be sure, the bank has no room left to cut short-term interest rates; they are already effectively at zero, and further tinkering, like the bank's move in September to trim its discount rate to 0.1 percent, would be merely symbolic. 
Similarly, the bank decided today to maintain a surplus of 6 trillion yen ($49 billion) in the money market, but its policy has so far generated very little new borrowing, and there is no sign that continuing it will have any greater effect. 
Critics of the bank's conservatism have urged it to take unconventional steps like setting an explicit inflation target and buying more government debt, but the bank's governor, Masaru Hayami, has resisted.
Mr. Hayami and other members of the bank's board say monetary policy alone cannot pull the economy out of its deflationary funk. The government must take difficult and unpopular steps that it has avoided, they say, including forcing Japan's banks rapidly to write off the estimated $500 billion in nonperforming loans they hold and push deadbeat debtors into restructuring or bankruptcy. 
"To make our policy-easing steps fully effective, it's essential to resolve banks' bad-loan problems and push for structural reforms of the financial system, economy and industries," Mr. Hayami told a meeting of bankers earlier this month. 
In its latest economic forecast, the bank said it expected consumer prices to fall more than 1 percent annually for the next two years if the government's policy remained unchanged. They have already fallen for 25 consecutive months. 
Angry demands by senior figures in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party have not broken the bank's resistance to adopting an inflation target, in large part because the prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, and the finance minister, Masajuro Shiokawa, back the bank's view. The main tool for controlling inflation once it begins -- higher interest rates -- would be disastrous for the government's finances, they say.
Instead, expectations are growing that the central bank and government will strike a different deal to sort out the debt-sodden banking industry, perhaps by greatly expanding the role of a government-sponsored company that buys nonperforming loans from banks. Mr. Hayami said the Bank of Japan would consider financing the project in coordination with the government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masaru Hayami, the governor of the Bank of Japan, said that the Japanese government must force the country's banks to write off an estimated $500 billion in nonperforming loans. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CONSERVATISM (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) JAPAN (96%); TAIWAN (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) SINGAPORE; TAIWAN; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



625 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Rates on Treasuries Climb Back to Pre-Sept. 11 Levels

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Interest rates on Treasury securities shot sharply higher this week, in one of their biggest weekly moves in recent history.
 Rates, both long term and short, are now near or above where they were Sept. 10, the day before the terrorist attacks. 
 The surge, which continued yesterday despite positive news on consumer inflation, frustrates the Federal Reserve, which has aggressively tried to push rates lower to help the economy, and the Bush administration, which wants economic as well as military successes. 
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note, which plays a crucial role in the economy because of its influence on home mortgage rates, jumped to 4.85 percent yesterday, from 4.78 percent Thursday and 4.31 percent a week ago, the largest weekly move in percentage terms since these notes were first regularly issued 25 years ago. Mortgage rates, which had fallen to 30-year lows in recent weeks, rose slightly this week. 
While the jump in interest rates signals that many investors think the economic outlook may be better than thought, the rise could actually slow a recovery from the recession. Treasury interest rates are a benchmark for rates ranging from those on mortgages and bank loans to corporate debt. So when Treasury rates rise others follow.
"The economy is weak but not as damaged as people thought," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney, taking a positive view of the rise in interest rates. "This is a good old-fashioned correction to the pessimism that became entrenched after Sept. 11." 
Some economists, however, are baffled by the surge in interest rates because they think the economy is still sinking and do not expect a recovery until the spring. 
Inflation is very low, which is usually positive for the bond market. Consumer prices declined 0.3 percent in October, the government reported yesterday, and oil prices have dropped sharply, with the price of a barrel off almost 20 percent in just the last week. In addition, some investors are worried that the return of budget deficits as the government cuts taxes and increases spending to stimulate the economy and fight the war will push interest rates higher.
But reports this week that retail sales surged 7.1 percent in October and initial unemployment claims have slowed seemed to have convinced many investors that a recovery may come faster than expected. The decline in oil prices can provide a boost to consumers that could be stronger than a tax cut. A recent rise in raw industrial commodity prices from 15-year lows could be a signal that demand for them is picking up and that production may have hit bottom.
All this new data has led many to believe that the Fed is finished cutting short-term interest rates. When investors have thought that a long cycle of Fed rate-cutting is at its end, they have always sold bonds and pushed yields, which move in the opposite direction, higher.
After the central bank sliced its benchmark short-term interest rate half a percentage point, to 2 percent on Nov. 2, investors still expected a quarter-point cut at its next meeting, Dec. 11. But based on the performance of securities that predict Fed rate moves such a cut is now seen as a long shot.
Although stock prices slipped yesterday as investors took a breather, they have recently rallied sharply, which some investors and analysts see as an indicator of a recovery ahead. The Nasdaq composite index is up 8.6 percent in the last two weeks while the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 5.8 percent.
Yesterday the Nasdaq inched down 1.99 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,898.58, while the Dow fell 5.40 points, or 0.05 percent, to 9,866.99. The Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 3.59 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,138.65.
"After some extremely pessimistic numbers, you have had some that provided a glimmer of hope about the economy," said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson Associates.
Still, it is too early to tell how much weight to give the latest economic data, said William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs. He does not think that new data has been good enough to have "motivated this change in the mood" in the bond market. "You don't know what October means until you see November," he said. Retail sales, he warned, "could bounce right back down again."
Beyond the positive economic data, there are several technical reasons the bond market has sold off so sharply, sending interest rates higher. One has been a flood of new corporate bonds sold recently as companies sought to take advantage of lower interest rates. These bonds, which offer investors higher rates than Treasury securities, pulled a lot of buyers out of Treasuries. There were $80.7 billion in new corporate bonds sold in the last four weeks, compared with $29.8 billion in the period a year ago, according to Thomson Financial.
In addition, the surprise announcement by the Treasury on Oct. 31 that it would end the issuance of new 30-year bonds helped send interest rates sharply lower over the following weeks. But that rate decline may have been more a result of the surprise than of longer range fundamentals. At the time, many analysts said that the government made the change in an effort to push interest rates lower by shrinking the supply of 30-year bonds. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond and 10-year note are now higher than they were before the announcement.
The bond market, like other markets, also has a tendency to go to extremes, at times seeing only the bad news, as was the case recently, and at other times, only the good news. When the extreme pessimism or optimism comes into question, the market moves sharply in the opposite direction. Mr. DiClemente of Salomon Smith Barney still predicts that the economy will decline about 2 percent this quarter and show no growth until the spring of next year. But the bond market, he argued, had been thinking that "we're never going to get off our backsides here."
In late trading yesterday, the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond was at 5.28 percent, up from 5.24 percent Thursday and 4.88 percent a week ago. The yield on the 30-year bond was 5.44 percent on Sept. 10 and 5.20 percent on Oct. 30, the day before the surprise announcement about the elimination of new issuance.
The yield on the Treasury's two-year note, another barometer of expectations about Fed interest rate moves, was at 3.02 percent, up from 3.00 percent Thursday and 2.44 percent a week ago. Its yield was 3.49 percent on Sept. 10. 
The yield on the 10-year note, 4.85 percent, was above the 4.84 percent on Sept. 10 and the 4.41 percent on Oct. 30.
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, thinks that the economy has still further to fall and will not recover until next year. Yet he acknowledges that the "bond market is saying that this is the boom quarter, this is when the economy turns around and everyone gets caught with their pants down."
He added, "If you want to believe that the economy is turning with a vengeance, now you have some data to support that view."

GRAPHIC: Chart: After repeated short-term interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, longer-term interest rates have begun to rise recently. Graph tracks yield on 10-year Treasury note from July-August.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets July-November)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); DEBT NOTES (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); TAX LAW (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); RETAIL SALES (50%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



626 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Jobs Are Migrating To New Jersey After Attack 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

 BODY:
Many of the jobs lost in Lower Manhattan after the Sept. 11 attacks have migrated across the river to New Jersey, where employment suddenly spurted in October after falling for most of the year, a new survey confirmed yesterday.
 Employment in New Jersey rose by 15,400 jobs in October, according to figures released by the New Jersey Department of Labor. The gains were heavily weighted toward the financial, insurance and real estate industries that were displaced by the destruction of the World Trade Center and the forced evacuation of adjoining buildings in Lower Manhattan. 
 This leaves little doubt that the employment bounce is from businesses that have moved to New Jersey from New York, said Joseph J. Seneca, vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers and chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers. 
"This is the first early indication that New Jersey is benefiting from a displacement effect among employees in the finance sector," Dr. Seneca said.
"Firms moved very rapidly to lease space immediately after the attack, and they moved either uptown or across the river. And New Jersey had office space available because the slowdown was already under way."
The New York City comptroller's office reported on Wednesday that the city lost 79,000 jobs in October as the economic fallout from the attack worked its way through the region's economy.
Dr. Seneca emphasized that there was no way of knowing how permanent any of the job growth would be as employers calculated variables in making location decisions, from employee commuting times to local housing prices.
"It is too early to say that this is a permanent trend," Dr. Seneca said. "But we are, for all the unfortunate reasons, benefiting at least in the short run and possibly in the long run." 
The job figures for New York showed that Wall Street shed 15,000 of its roughly 181,000 jobs in October. Some of this decline came from layoffs announced at securities firms before Sept. 11. Analysts estimate that about a third of the lost jobs may never come back.
Furthermore, the city may get hit because some of the securities industry jobs that remain downtown may leave because companies now want to spread operations over different locations. And that could benefit areas close to the city like those in New Jersey. 
Dr. Seneca said it was likely that many of the new jobs belonged to New Jerseyans who used to commute to Manhattan, so that the jump in jobs did not necessarily presage a increase in population. Most of New Jersey's population growth in the last decade was accounted for by foreign immigration, not from people moving in from other states, in any case.
Dr. Seneca said the growth in employment was fundamentally a North Jersey phenomenon, but leading commercial landlords on the Hudson River waterfront said they did not know where the new employment was settling in.
"We have not had an influx of New York City tenants coming to us because we don't have the space available," said Emmanuel Stern, the president of Hartz Mountain Industries, which has major projects built and occupied as well as under construction in Jersey City.
Edward Cortese, a spokesman for the Lefrak Organization, another major developer, said, "We have five million square feet in Jersey City, and it's all fully leased."
New Jersey's salaried employment for 2001 peaked in February at 4,033,800, moved very slightly in the following three months, and then declined steadily from June through September, when employment bottomed out at 4,011,000.
The latest figure, 4,026,400, puts the state's employment close to the April 2001 level.
Dr. Seneca said the state was entering a period of economic crosscurrents, each to some extent working against the other.
"The shock of the attack is depressing the overall United States economy," he said.
"New York is feeling that in an amplified way, and New Jersey is getting a bounce echo effect on the positive side, even though the permanency of these jobs is impossible to predict at this point." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); TRENDS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); HOME PRICES (50%) LABOR; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



627 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMIC SITUATION; 
Neither Side Blinks as Ideological Rift Stalls Progress on Stimulus Package

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Unemployment is surging. Industrial production is tumbling. Business and consumer confidence are faltering. And for the last two months Democrats and Republicans in Congress have been deadlocked over what to do about it, their differing views so deeply held as to transcend partisanship or even ideology and enter the realm of religion.
 Not only does each side defend its approach fervently, but each also suggests that the other guys are infidels. 
 The two parties managed to paper over their differences on the size and role of government this week to reach a deal on bolstering airport security. But the enduring bitterness of their philosophical split as applied to the more fundamental issues of taxes and spending shows the difficulties Congress has in dealing with economic downturns in a timely way.
Since just after Sept. 11, when the yearlong downturn accelerated and made it all but certain that the nation would endure its first recession in a decade, Democrats and Republicans have been sniping at each other over economic policy. They have offered up studies and statistics, accommodated special interests, maneuvered for procedural advantage and assigned blame.
What they have not done is make any substantial progress toward enacting a package of tax cuts and new spending that might help bring about a faster recovery.
After a final volley of charges and countercharges about taxes and spending this week, the House and Senate went home tonight for 10 days without even beginning bipartisan negotiations on a stimulus plan, and President Bush made no serious effort to bring them together.
Even if they reach a deal soon after they return to Washington, it could be months before individuals would receive any benefits from it. And by the time the full effects of any stimulus package ripple through the economy, the downturn might have extended well into next year.
"Considering that next year is an election year for Congress and that they'll be running for office saying we're still in a recession because we couldn't get our act together, this situation is insane," said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at the Argus Research Corporation, an investment firm.
If Congress and the administration cannot settle on a fiscal stimulus package soon, Mr. Yamarone said, "any immediate recovery in the business sector would vanish, and I would even argue that you wouldn't see the economy recover until the end of 2002."
For now the economy is being supported mainly by the Federal Reserve, which is waging one of the most aggressive recession-fighting campaigns of interest rate cuts it has ever undertaken.
But monetary policy is more or less nonideological. Fiscal policy, by contrast, has come to embody the parties' very definitions of themselves and their values.
Republicans believe passionately in the curative power of tax cuts, no matter what ills the economy faces, and think the best way to help the economy is from the top down.
Democratic dogma focuses on helping from the bottom up -- by assisting needy individuals rather than companies or the wealthy -- and on employing government spending programs.
There is clearly room for compromise. The two parties found an acceptable middle ground on the airport security bill, which was stalled for weeks because of differences over whether security workers should be employed by the federal government, as Democrats wanted, or by private companies, as Republicans preferred.
And even now, the two parties are examining new ideas to break the logjam on economic stimulus, such as declaring a holiday in December on payroll taxes, the levies paid by employers and employees that finance Social Security.
But getting a deal on the economy will be tough because taxes and spending are increasingly the issues that the two parties use to identify themselves and draw contrasts to their political opponents -- especially during a period in which they have pledged to maintain some semblance of bipartisanship in foreign policy and on many domestic issues.
"Democrats and Republicans being Democrats and Republicans" was the way that Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader, put it a month ago as it started to become clear that the stimulus plan was not going to be an occasion for warm cooperation across the aisle.
Republicans are hoping to repeat their success of earlier this year, when they passed, and Mr. Bush signed into law, the biggest tax cut in two decades. But that was before the Democrats gained control of the Senate, and before the economic slowdown was being widely felt by workers. 
For Democrats, the model to follow is the negotiations that led to the deal this week on airport security. In that case, both parties had reached the point where the political risks of sticking to their principles outweighed the benefits. Republicans, though, ultimately gave more than Democrats, apparently deciding that travelers were more interested in feeling secure than in testing the virtues of market forces.
Democrats said they were hoping for the same sort of outcome on economic stimulus, with Republicans blinking when they are cast as denying help to the jobless. No way, Republicans say.
Until one side converts the other, dealing with the economy will be difficult and slow for Congress. As Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, pointed out in his jargon-laden way early this year, Congress is just not temperamentally suited to responding quickly to economic emergencies.
"I think the history of the interaction of monetary and fiscal policy in the post-World War II period," he said, "pretty much concludes that fiscal policy is too blunt a tool to work as an anticyclical device." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); RELIGION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); AIRPORTS (55%); AVIATION SECURITY (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



628 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Usefulness of SAT Test Is Debated in California 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif., Nov. 16 

 BODY:
The battle for the SAT's future in California and perhaps other parts of the nation was joined here today when the leading educator opposed to the influential college entrance exam debated its usefulness with the head of the company that oversees it.
 The president of the University of California, who has proposed that his college system no longer require applicants to take the main SAT test, and the president of the College Board, which administers it, spoke out in an effort to win the hearts and minds of the system's faculty members, who will play a crucial role in deciding whether to continue using the test. 
 The California system includes prestigious campuses at Berkeley and Los Angeles and is the SAT's largest customer. The respect it gets from the College Board -- and the influence it carries with other systems across the country -- was evidenced by the size of the delegation the board dispatched to a research conference on testing at the university's campus here. The College Board president, Gaston Caperton, arrived from his New York headquarters with eight top aides. 
Nine months ago, the university president, Richard C. Atkinson, recommended that the California system, which is among the nation's largest, stop requiring its applicants to take the main SAT exam. He contended that the tests had distracted students from their primary subjects and made it more difficult for many black and Hispanic applicants to get accepted into top colleges.
Since then, just one other selective public or private institution -- Hamilton College in upstate New York -- has said it would follow suit. But that could change if the regents who govern the California system, which has 130,000 undergraduates, adopt Dr. Atkinson's proposal.
Before the 26-member Board of Regents can take up the president's proposal, the plan must be approved by a series of faculty committees, which are expected to act early next year. That is why today's forum was considered so important. The regents have said that if the president's proposal reaches their desks, they would take it up no later than next summer. If adopted, it could take effect as soon as the fall of 2003.
In addressing 300 professors, administrators and admissions officers this morning, most of them drawn from the system's eight undergraduate campuses, Dr. Atkinson argued that the main SAT exam, formally known as the SAT I, failed to assess what was most important to colleges.
"The SAT I sends a confusing message to students, teachers, and schools," Dr. Atkinson said. "It says that students will be tested on material that is unrelated to what they study in their classes. It says that the grades they achieve can be devalued by a test that is not part of their school curriculum."
Dr. Atkinson has proposed that the California system rely, temporarily, on another series of College Board exams, the SAT II's, which are intended to measure student achievement in specific subjects, rather than general aptitude or reasoning in mathematics, vocabulary, reading and other areas. But Dr. Atkinson has proposed that those exams, too, be phased out in favor of a series of new exams that would be designed specifically to test what California students learn in high school.
Mr. Caperton, saying he regarded California as a "bellwether" that was always "a year or two ahead of everyone else," urged the conferees to stick with both sets of SAT exams. When combined, he said, the SAT I and II provided the most accurate statistical snapshot of how a student thought and had performed in school.
"I tried to be nice when he said all those bad things about the SAT I," Mr. Caperton, a former governor of West Virginia, said of Dr. Atkinson. 
Mr. Caperton argued that the SAT I had changed drastically since its start more than 50 years ago, and he likened its evolution to that of a Chevrolet over the same period. The SAT I, he said, was unmatched in its capacity to evaluate a student's "ability to think in words and numbers," which he called a "very critical part of getting an education in college and doing well in college."
Mr. Caperton delivered his remarks with some confidence, aware that his position enjoys the support of an overwhelming majority of the members of the College Board, a nonprofit consortium of 4,000 colleges and high schools that includes the California system.
Even so, Mr. Caperton drew fire from another front: Richard Ferguson, the president of ACT Inc., which produces a rival admissions exam, lobbied conferees to replace the SAT with his company's test, which, he said, was already achievement-oriented, and "the equivalent of five SAT II's."
California education officials began focusing in earnest on the disparities in the SAT scores of blacks and Hispanics when compared with those of whites after the regents voted in 1995 to bar race as a consideration in admission to the public university system. 
While that state policy has made it harder for some minority applicants to gain acceptance to the university system, the elimination of the SAT would probably have the effect of easing their admission. 
On Thursday, the regents voted to approve a companion proposal by Dr. Atkinson to broaden the criteria by which applicants to the California system are judged.
In addition to standardized test scores and grade point averages, applicants will now be rated in a dozen other categories, including special talents, leadership skills and accomplishments in the face of "personal challenges," including economic hardship. The model closely resembles those that dozens of highly selective private colleges have used for more than a generation.
While many faculty members who attended today's conference said they were keeping an open mind about the SAT, they conceded that they shared Dr. Atkinson's contentions that the tests had come to dominate students' preparation for college and had served to draw a rough line between those students who had grown up with a rich intellectual home life, and those who had not.
Richard Watts, a professor of chemistry here who is a member of the committee that will cast the final faculty vote for or against the SAT, said he had attended all the research presentations on subjects including whether the SAT II was a better predictor than the SAT I of a freshman's grade point average. (Dr. Atkinson's research shows that it is; Mr. Caperton's shows that it is not.)
Dr. Watts said he was inclined to follow the lead of Dr. Atkinson, who, he said, had "usually been on target, in terms of recommending things the faculty will come to agree on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Atkinson, left, the University of California president, heard from Gaston Caperton, center, the College Board president, and Richard Ferguson, the head of ACT Inc., which writes a rival exam to the SAT. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); APPROVALS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SAT (COLLEGE ADMISSION TEST); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; TESTS AND TESTING 

COMPANY: GUY F ATKINSON CO OF CALIFORNIA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); ACT (59%) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA; COLLEGE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (85%)

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; ATKINSON, RICHARD C; CAPERTON, GASTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



629 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Champions of the Elk Plan for Its Comeback; 
Group Wants to Establish Catskill Herd

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
In his red pickup truck, Dave Messics navigated the dark, bumpy road in a remote part of the Allegheny Mountains in Pennsylvania to a hillside shrouded in mist. Before cutting the engine, he cautioned his out-of-town guests that there might not be anything to see at daybreak.
 Just then, a shrill whistle blasted the air, followed by loud, unseemly grunts. Mr. Messics, binoculars in hand, jumped out to join the people lined up by the roadside for a glimpse of the main attraction: a herd of wild elk. 
 "Well, I feel like a weight is off my shoulders," he said. "We saw the elk and heard them bugle. I've had some days I drive around for hours without finding one." 
Mr. Messics, the director of Northeast field operations for the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, is leading an effort to reintroduce wild elk, like those in the Alleghenies, to the Catskills. The original herds disappeared more than a century ago because of unregulated hunting and a loss of habitat from logging and farming. Now some residents, business owners and town officials see the elk's return as a way to promote tourism in a struggling area once famed for its summer resorts.
But others, including farmers and wildlife advocates, point to conflicts between humans and the thriving deer population of more than one million. Last year alone in New York, there were 9,253 reported motor vehicle collisions involving deer, and 1,409 complaints about crop and property damage from deer, according to state records.
These opponents argue that the elk -- which are three to four times the size of deer -- would only cause more car collisions, devour more fields and gardens and spread more infectious diseases. "It's absolutely idiotic and dangerous," said Phil Sullivan, a retired electronics consultant in Woodstock, N.Y. "It's bad enough to hit a deer. If you hit an 800-pound elk, you're going to be very badly injured."
The elk foundation, a group based in Montana, has campaigned to return wild elk to rural areas where they once roamed. Since 1995, it has spent $2.6 million to reintroduce the elk in Wisconsin, Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina and Ontario. Another $1.5 million has been used to buy 6,203 acres to expand elk habitats in Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Michigan and Minnesota.
In New York, the foundation has spent more than $250,000 to promote a plan to release as many as 100 wild elk somewhere in the Catskills in the next five years. It has commissioned a feasibility study by wildlife experts, made nearly 200 presentations to local government and community groups, and last August, held four public meetings in the Catskills that drew about 600 people.
Wally John, a West Shokan, N.Y., resident who heads the foundation's 100-member Catskills chapter, said the elk would bring tourism dollars to local businesses and fill a gap in the ecosystem. "Elk were here when Henry Hudson sailed up the river," he said.
But Peter Constantakes, a spokesman for the Department of Environmental Conservation, said state environmental officials have raised concerns about not only the biological and social impacts of reintroducing the elk, but also the expense of managing another wildlife species in a state where bald eagles, peregrine falcons and river otters have all been reintroduced in the last 30 years. The department is expected to begin reviewing the elk plan in January. 
Some wildlife advocates like Anne Muller, president of Wildlife Watch in New Paltz, N.Y., have accused the elk foundation of wanting to bring back the elk simply so that its members could eventually hunt them. "We're in the peculiar position of having to advocate against the reintroduction of elk," she said. "For the sake of the species and the individual animals who will suffer."
Though the elk foundation's 130,000 members include many hunters, Mr. Messics and others said the goal of their elk campaign was simply to return the animals to their native habitats. "It's a trend to reintroduce once-native species," Mr. Messics said. "Whether you're talking about bald eagles or bobcats, there's a real push to restore wildlife populations where they once were, where they no longer are."
The Pennsylvania elk herd has grown steadily since the late 1980's as wildlife groups like the elk foundation have invigorated the restoration effort and raised money to buy land for the elk habitat. The current herd of about 700 is descended from 177 Rocky Mountain elk that were released by the state game commission from 1913 to 1926.
Though the elk often wander across roads and onto private property, wildlife and tourism officials say the herd has not caused significant problems and has proven over all to be a sound, economic investment. Thousands of tourists trek annually to Benezette, a township of 220 in central Pennsylvania, to see the wild elk. This week, the Pennsylvania Game Commission held its first elk hunt in 65 years after choosing 30 hunters at random from 52,000 applicants.
Many local businesses depend on the elk tourism year-round. At the Benezette Hotel, elk antlers hang on a wall and the most popular menu item is a glorified hamburger known as the "bugle burger." The hotel sells about 50 a week. "We're going to do better than McDonald's one of these days," said the owner, Mark Moorehead. "I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the elk, because there's nothing else here."
Another resident, Donald Wood, began offering elk tours by horseback eight years ago, and has introduced hundreds of visitors from as far away as Australia and England to elk-watching. At $15 an hour per rider, he makes enough to give up his logging job during the busiest months of September and October.
"I see more people now in one week than I used to see all year," he said. "Sometimes it gets on my nerves, but mostly I'm glad there's that much enthusiasm."
But others complain that the elk have ruined their once-peaceful neighborhoods. They say the wild herd has not only trampled gardens and left unsightly droppings everywhere but also attracted thousands of people who park outside their houses at daybreak and jam the narrow roads. "It's like living in an amusement park," muttered one woman as she passed by a crowd of elk-watchers.
Lisa Huff, a native of Benezette, said there were mixed feelings about elk tourism because of all the inconveniences that come with it. "If you have an elk in your front yard, you can have 300 people there," she said. "They just aren't used to that here."
On a chilly fall morning, a dozen elk-watchers trained their cameras and binoculars on a single elk with towering antlers less than a hundred feet away. As the elk threw its head back, the cameras erupted with noisy clicks. The elk barely glanced over.
The elk-watchers, though, were more excited.
Larry and Nancy Griffith drove 130 miles from Burgettstown, Pa., to follow the elk herd for the weekend. They peppered Mr. Messics with questions about the elk plan in the Catskills, and wished him luck. "You get them down there, and you'll probably see us," Mr. Griffith said. "I'd love to have them down our way, too."
As they set off once again in search of elk, Mrs. Griffith called out, "I hope you see a big one."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some Catskill residents hope the elk's reintroduction will bring tourists, like these near Benezette, Pa. (Paul A. Wilson for The New York Times)(pg. D2); An elk bull kept watch over a herd on Winslow Hill, near Benezette, Pa., in the Allegheny Mountains. A wildlife group has proposed reintroducing the elk in the Catskills. (Paul A. Wilson for The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); RESORTS (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); TOURISM (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKY MOUNTAIN ELK FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



630 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Midwest: Wisconsin: Jump In Caseload 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Stanton (NYT) 

 BODY:
 More than 8,000 people received cash assistance under the state's welfare reform program in September, the highest caseload since May 1999. The Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development attributed the increase to the sluggish economy. The welfare reform program, which requires participants to work in exchange for child-care help, transportation, job training and cash assistance, was started in 1997, when more than 34,000 people participated. Elizabeth Stanton (NYT)



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (53%) WELFARE (US) 

PERSON: STANTON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) WISCONSIN

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



631 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Porsche Net Income Rises 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Porsche A.G. said that its net income rose 29 percent in the fiscal year ended July 31 as sales of its 911 Turbo and Boxster sports cars increased. Net income rose to 270.5 million euros ($239 million) in the year from 210 million euros a year earlier. 
Sales rose 22 percent to 4.44 billion euros ($3.92 billion). Porsche is increasing profit and sales, as are its competitors, Bayerische Motoren Werke A.G. and DaimlerChrysler A.G.'s Mercedes-Benz unit, even amid economic slowdowns in their biggest markets, the United States and Germany. The company's pretax profit margin was 12 percent in fiscal 2001, about the same as the year earlier. Porsche said it would pay a dividend of 2.54 euros a common share and 2.6 euros for each preferred share. Its shares closed up 0.8 percent at 393.30 euros.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks share daily prices of Porsche in euros since Sept. 7 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORTS CARS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); COMMON STOCK (87%); EURO (87%); PREFERRED STOCK (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (84%); DAIMLER AG (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PORSCHE AG 

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%); BMW (FRA) (84%); BMW (BIT) (84%); DAI (FRA) (71%); DAI (BIT) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (84%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



632 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Closing In

BIN LADEN AIDE REPORTED KILLED -- One of Osama bin Laden's most trusted lieutenants, Muhammad Atef, has reportedly been killed in a bombing raid, American officials said. His death, they said, would be an important success in a global campaign that has curtailed Al Qaeda's ability to mount large-scale terrorist operations. A1

CRUCIAL LEADER -- Muhammad Atef held a unique place in Osama bin Laden's hierarchy, officials say: He helped organize Al Qaeda's terror activities and was a member of the group's ruling council. He also was an in-law of Mr. bin Laden. B4

Clues in the Ruins

EVIDENCE -- A flight simulator program, a list of flight schools in the United States and documents describing chemical, biological and nuclear warfare and referring to Al Qaeda were found in two houses in Kabul. A1

SKEPTICISM -- A document on building nuclear weapons found in a house in Kabul might be based on a scientific parody published 22 years ago. B4

On the Ground

THE BATTLE -- The Taliban's top leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, was reported to be ready to abandon his stronghold of Kandahar, as American commandos in southern Afghanistan engaged in their most intensive ground combat to date. A1

SIEGE -- Northern Alliance fighters who have encircled the besieged city of Kunduz paused briefly to celebrate the start of Ramadan, but their commanders said they would be moving ahead -- perhaps within 24 hours -- to attack the city where they have as many as 20,000 Taliban fighters surrounded. B3

AID WORKERS -- Two American aid workers who spent weeks in a women's prison in Kabul said they played cards and exercised to fight off boredom, but were generally treated well by the Taliban. B3

Airline Safety

FOR HIRE -- Congress passed an aviation security bill that President Bush plans to sign on Monday. Now the struggle begins to hire and train 28,000 new federal employees to screen passengers and baggage at all airports within 12 months. A1

THE WORKERS -- Airport screeners for private companies say Congress's decision to federalize their job is not a bad idea -- if the government rehires them at higher wages. B6

The Economy

CONGRESS -- The two parties managed to paper over their differences to reach a deal on airport security. But they have not even begun negotiations on an economic stimulus plan that might help bring about a faster recovery. B6

Trouble, Old and New

ANOTHER ANTHRAX LETTER -- Investigators searching through unopened mail sent to Capitol Hill discovered another letter that contained anthrax. The letter was addressed to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat. The F.B.I. said the letter, postmarked Oct. 9, was similar to three other anthrax-laced letters sent to Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, NBC News and The New York Post. A1

THE BUREAU -- Confirming that a Yemeni fugitive may have planned to be among the Sept. 11 hijackers, the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, said there might be others still alive who intended to commandeer airplanes that day and join in the suicide attacks. B5

MILLENNIUM PLOT -- An Algerian man living in Vancouver, British Columbia, has been charged with assisting in a terrorist plot tied to the 2000 millennium celebrations. B5

COPING WITH LOSS -- The grandmother of a Navy reservist killed in the attack on the Pentagon asks how anyone could hate strangers. B5

UNITED NATIONS -- The annual round of speeches in the General Assembly, delayed by the terror attacks, drew to a close with almost every nation joining in to condemn terrorism. B5

IN BERLIN -- Chancellor Gerhard Schroder won a vote of confidence in the Parliament for the participation of German troops in the war in Afghanistan, but in so doing, he appeared to badly wound his relationship with his junior coalition partner, the Greens. A10

Mood of the Country

THE INTERVIEWS -- The questioning of 5,000 Middle Eastern men in the United States on temporary visas has an Arab-American police officer in Dearborn, Mich., feeling squeezed by his dual identities. B1

AFTER A RAID -- Dr. Irshad Shaikh, the health commissioner of Chester, Pa., and a native of Pakistan, holds no grudge against the F.B.I. after agents, working on an athrax-related tip, broke down his door and raided his home in front of neighbors and television cameras. B8

CIVIL LIBERTIES -- With the nation at war, some civil libertarians say the Bush administration is justified in interviewing 5,000 newly arrived foreigners and trying suspected terrorists in military tribunals. B8

A Warlord Returns

SHORT-LIVED GRATITUDE -- After his forces chased the Taliban out of the western city of Herat this week, Ismael Khan, the Afghan warlord in the region, delivered a not-so-subtle message to the West: your help is no longer needed. B1

The Search for Security

SECURITY BREACH -- Hartsfield International in Atlanta was evacuated for four hours after a man ran past security guards and disappeared into a secure area. The evacuation caused backups at airports from coast to coast. Hours later, the police arrested a 32-year-old Georgia man who told them he had ran to retrieve his camera bag. B7

THE INDUSTRY -- Some airlines executives said that already suffering carriers might be forced to absorb the cost of Congress's plan for improving aviation security. B7

CYBER TERROR -- The Bush administration is considering the creation of a secure government communications network separate from the Internet that would be less vulnerable to cyber attacks. B7

LIMITS ON LAWSUITS -- Congress agreed to restrict New York City's liability from the trade center attacks to $350 million to aid the city's recovery. B7

Aftermath in New York

THE CHARITIES -- The Internal Revenue Service will allow charities responding to the terror attacks to distribute money without first proving that families are in financial need, relieving the charities from the risk of losing their tax-exempt status. B1

A TRUCE -- A retired firefighter whose son is buried in the ruins of the trade center helped the department and Mayor Giuliani end a feud over the number of firefighters assigned to ground zero. B9

FALSE ALARM -- A New Jersey doctor who thought he had contracted skin anthrax in the first week of September has tested negative. B9

MORE AID -- The White House is giving New York an additional $2 billion to help it recover. B9

Portraits of Grief B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); AIRLINES (74%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (70%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); RELIGION (66%); RAMADAN (64%); PRISONS (63%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (61%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



633 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
PROFITS INCREASE BY 68% FOR KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Profits in Krispy Kreme Doughnuts's fiscal third-quarter rose 68 percent as the company opened stores and consumers ate more doughnuts. Net income rose to $6.48 million, or 11 cents a share, in the quarter ended Oct. 28, from $3.85 million, or 7 cents, in the year-earlier period. 
Revenue rose 28 percent, to $99.8 million, the company said yesterday. Krispy Kreme added 10 stores in California, Pennsylvania and other states, bringing the total number of stores to 198 at the end of the quarter. Krispy Kreme's sales were not hurt by a decline in consumer spending as much as other retailers' were because comfort foods like doughnuts are appealing when the economy slows, analysts said. Krispy Kreme is based in Winston-Salem, N.C. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC 

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (92%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



634 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Pressing Greens, German Leader Wins Historic Vote on Sending Troops to Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, won his game of chicken today with his junior coalition partner, the Greens, forcing them to support the government in a confidence vote over German participation in the war in Afghanistan.
 On one level, the vote was crucial, even historic, because it gave Parliament's approval to the deployment beyond Europe of German troops in a combat role for the first time since 1945 -- even if few of them are expected to be asked to fight. On another level, however, the narrowness of the margin showed how far this German government has still to travel to become the reliable foreign-policy partner that Mr. Schroder wants it to be. 
 Mr. Schroder won the vote of confidence with 336 votes, only 2 more than the simple majority that he needed, after four Green Party legislators opposed to the war reluctantly reversed themselves and backed the coalition. One Social Democrat who opposed the deployment decided to quit his party and vote independent.
Mr. Schroder's coalition with the Greens, which survives for now, looks badly wounded. He won, but he did so by forcing the Greens to sacrifice principle for power and appear to be hypocrites.
A Green Party congress next weekend could still break the government apart. Much of the party is opposed to the war in Afghanistan and angry about the compromises that power, and Mr. Schroder, have forced upon them.
The coalition could also limp along until elections next year. But many Greens worry that they may not do well enough in those elections to remain in Parliament.
"I'm delighted to be able to continue to do my work for Germany," Mr. Schroder told a news conference after the vote. "This decision shows that when things get serious, this coalition sticks together."
Mr. Schroder and his foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, a Green, see Germany's support for the United States in the war against terrorism as a test of their generation, whose liberal politics were forged in anti-Vietnam War protests and the mood of revolution that swept western Europe in 1968. Speaking in the debate today, Mr. Schroder said: "Through this contribution the united and sovereign Germany meets its growing responsibility in the world."
But the conservative leader Edmund Stoiber of Bavaria, a likely challenger to Mr. Schroder in the next elections, said: "The seeds of destruction have been planted in this coalition." Michael Glos, another conservative, told Mr. Schroder, "If you break someone's spine, you can't expect them to support you further down the road."
The agony of the Greens was palpable, with the eight members opposed to the deployment deciding to split their votes to keep the coalition alive. One key Greens deputy, Hans-Christian Strobele, who voted no, said: "This was an enormous decision, almost a martyrdom," adding: "I'm in the schizophrenic situation that I voted 'no,' but was satisfied with the result." 
Gregor Gysi of the Party of Democratic Socialists, the former East German Communist Party, which has come against the war, was sarcastic about the Greens. They voted for the war, he said, "because of their fear of losing their little mandate."
Wolfgang Gerhardt of the liberal Free Democrats -- the party to which Mr. Schroder might turn for a new coalition if and when his partnership with the Greens falls apart -- said the Greens had no realistic alternative to the military campaign. "Applying psychotherapeutic cures to terrorists will not suffice," he said.
Mr. Fischer, the Green foreign minister, had threatened to resign if his party voted against deployment. "This coalition has decisively renewed the republic," he said in the debate. 
But the Green leaders are much more centrist than ordinary party members, up to 70 percent of whom oppose the war as the wrong response to terrorism and are deeply skeptical of what they consider American imperialism, both military and cultural. The grass roots will be heard from at next weekend's party congress.
Today's ballot was complicated, because Mr. Schroder made it a vote of confidence in his government, only the fourth time that a postwar German chancellor had done so. He could have easily won a simple vote on deployment with the support of the opposition -- the conservatives, and the Free Democrats.
But Mr. Schroder understood late last week that to win a vote on such a fundamental issue without a majority in the ruling coalition would damage him badly. For a good strategist, he seemed to fumble. Initial efforts to twist elbows failed, forcing him to hold this vote of confidence and compelling the Greens to choose between opposition and power.
By law, the German lower house, or Bundestag, must approve the deployment of German troops abroad.
Mr. Schroder needed every vote, and Thursday night, he tried to reassure himself that Nina Hauer, a legislator due to give birth, would be present. Rubbing her stomach, Mr. Schroder joked: "If the baby comes, it will mean we have one vote more." Ms. Hauer asked a fellow deputy, a gynecologist, to sit next to her.
Should the coalition with the Greens fail, Mr. Schroder has "more options," as he said today. He could form a new coalition with the Free Democrats or ask for early elections.
His support for the United States and the war has increased his popularity inside the country, and the conservative opposition, the Christian Democrats, are in a leadership battle. An election about Germany's role in the world would suit Mr. Schroder better than one focused on the declining domestic economy, which is slipping into recession, and the unemployment rate, which continues to rise.
But Mr. Schroder is also concerned that Washington not widen the war, which would cause him significant political problems. Asked on television tonight about a war beyond Afghanistan, Mr. Schroder said, "Britain, France, Germany and others agree with each other that this would be wrong to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: German Chancellor Gerhard Schroder in Parliament yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



635 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Warnaco Executive Is Fired Without Severance Pay
Linda J. Wachner, once among the highest-paid, highest-profile business women in the nation, was fired without severance as chief executive of the Warnaco Group.
 A hard-charging boss, Ms. Warnaco nevertheless wowed Wall Street in the 1990's by transforming a medium-sized bra manufacturer into a $2.25 billion-a-year powerhouse with brand names like Calvin Klein Jeans and Speedo swimsuits. But her abrasive style also helped sink the company. Page A1. 

28,000 Job Openings in Air Safety
Federal officials began struggling with the immense challenge of hiring and training 28,000 new federal employees to screen passengers and baggage at all airports within 12 months. The new federal work force is required under an aviation security bill that passed both houses of Congress. A1.

Deal Reached on Wireless Licenses
The Federal Communications Commission reached a deal to transfer ownership of $16 billion worth of disputed mobile phone licenses to some of the nation's biggest wireless carriers, while providing a windfall for the bankrupt NextWave Telecom. C2.

Hewlett's Son Set to Fight Merger
The son of the co-founder of Hewlett-Packard, Walter Hewlett, has taken formal steps with federal regulators that will allow him to lobby shareholders to fight the planned $23 billion acquisition of Compaq Computer. C2.

Bush Seeks Safer Communications
The Bush administration is considering creation of a secure government communications network separate from the Internet that would be less vulnerable to cyber-attacks and efforts to disrupt critical federal activities. B7.

I.M.F. Preparing Loan for Turkey
The head of the International Monetary Fund said that he would recommend a new loan for Turkey to bridge a $10 billion financing gap, leaving the nation close to an unprecedented third I.M.F. rescue in a year. C3.

Inflation Low and Industry Sluggish
Economic reports showed low inflation and sluggish output at the nation's factories. The Labor Department said consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in October as energy prices posted their biggest decline in more than 15 years. The Federal Reserve said industrial output fell for the 13th consecutive month, the longest such stretch since the Great Depression. C4.

The Struggles of the Asian Economy
Singapore and Taiwan, their economies heavily reliant on exports, reported economic contractions that were among the worst in decades, while policy makers in Japan, mired in its fourth recession in 10 years, are at an impasse about how to revive the economy there. The developments reflect the difficulties facing the economy in Asia. C3.

Aluminum Merger Talks Reach Snag
Merger talks between Alcoa and WMC Limited, a major miner of nickel and other minerals in Australia, have become knotted over a series of issues, particularly the price, and may not produce a deal for some time. C3.

Insurers Encounter Price Bazaar
It was a seller's market at the annual conference of the National Association of Independent Insurers and the companies that sell reinsurance, the policies that insure the risks taken on by retail insurance sellers, were raising prices and setting the pattern for how much American businesses will be paying for insurance. C2.

Bristol-Myers Squibb to Cut Jobs
Bristol-Myers Squibb is cutting about 1,000 jobs, including 350 in New Jersey. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,866.99 down 5.40Nasdaq composite -- 1,898.58 down 1.9910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.85% up 0.07The euro -- $0.8843 up 0.0024The dollar -- 122.82 yen up 0.44 Graph shows consumer prices (percent change, month to month) from January-October. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS REGULATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MERGERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); WOMEN (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LOBBYING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); LINGERIE MFG (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); CYBERCRIME (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (67%); MINING OUTPUT (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); INSURANCE (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); NICKEL MINING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) 17$01; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WARNACO GROUP INC (90%); ALUMINA LTD (80%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); ALCOA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AWC (NYSE) (80%); AWC (ASX) (80%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (90%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



636 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: New Udalls Rising in West Could Clash for Congress 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
For generations, the Udall name has permeated Western politics, to the point that the family was compared to the Kennedys on the East Coast. Whether the comparison is valid hardly matters. But two more Udalls are emerging to keep the debate going.
 With the 2000 census giving Arizona two new Congressional seats for a total of eight, a growing field for the new First District has drawn the interest of Stephen G. Udall, a longtime county prosecutor, a Democrat, and his distant cousin, Chris Udall, a Republican, who is the field director for Representative J. D. Hayworth, a four-term Republican from the current Sixth District. 
 Neither Udall nor any other candidate has officially entered the race. But the cousins said in separate interviews on Thursday that they were leaning toward running, which sets up a delectable possibility: Should they survive their respective party primaries next September, they could become the first members of the same family to oppose each other for a Congressional seat. 
Several Congressional historians, including Donald R. Kennon, chief historian of the Capitol Historical Society, and Donald Ritchie, associate Senate historian, said they knew of no other general election in which relatives from opposing parties ran for the same seat in Congress.
Unique or not, the prospect of an all-Udall showdown offers the possibility that their election battle could become the cleanest Congressional campaign in the country next year.
"I'm not going to go negative -- Steve is a great cousin," said Chris Udall, echoing the sentiments of his cousin, who said, "Chris is a very nice guy."
The cousins grew up about 30 miles apart on the rural reaches of eastern Arizona -- Stephen, who is 59 and married with three grown children, in St. John's, and Chris, who is 39 and single, in Eagar. They said they did not know each other well, but they share a rich political heritage, tracing it back to David King Udall, a Mormon pioneer of the mid-1800's who reached Kanab, Utah, and was later sent by church leaders to St. John's, where he served in the territorial legislature.
Every generation of Udalls since has produced politicians, judges and other public servants, Republicans and Democrats. Most notable were the brothers Stewart L. Udall, a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona who was interior secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, and Morris K. Udall, a Democrat who took over Stewart's House seat and held it through 1990. Morris Udall ran for president in 1976.
Currently, three other family members are serving in Congress, all of them cousins: Representative Tom Udall, a two-term Democrat from New Mexico, who is Stewart's son; Representative Mark Udall, a two-term Democrat from Colorado, who is Morris's son, and Senator Gordon H. Smith, a first-term Republican from Oregon whose mother was a Udall.
Stewart Udall, 81, lives in Santa Fe, N.M., where he writes books. Morris Udall died in 1998 at the age of 76.
Stephen and Chris Udall, both the sons of ranchers, said their interest in a Congressional campaign came about, in part, by the shape of the First District in the newly drawn Congressional map, configured by a nonpartisan Redistricting Commission created by voters last November. Under the plan, none of Arizona's current six representatives will have to run against another, leaving the two new districts, the First and Seventh, open for newcomers. 
With nearly half the state's square mileage, the district includes the small cities of Flagstaff and Prescott but is overwhelmingly rural, giving ranchers and farmers the opportunity for the first time in decades of having a voice in Congress that would not beholden to urban interests. Each of Arizona's current six districts includes a part of the Phoenix metropolitan area.
"We have fought so hard to get a rural district," said Stephen Udall, who has won seven consecutive four-year terms as the prosecutor in Apache County, in northeast Arizona. "Our problems are so different from those in Phoenix."
Chris Udall, an economist by training, concurred. "In my travels, I hear a lot about the 'State of Maricopa,' " he said, referring to the huge county that includes Phoenix. "People in rural areas feel their issues get drowned out."
Despite their party affiliations, the cousins' politics are similar, which is not unusual in a rural western district where solutions account for a lot more than rhetoric. Stephen Udall called himself a moderate Democrat; Chris Udall called himself a middle-of-the-road Republican. Both cited the need for more jobs and greater access to good health care as the district's most pressing needs. Both applauded the Bush administration's handling of the war in Afghanistan, and both said they would oppose efforts to pass more gun-control laws.
One major difference is their positions on abortion. Stephen Udall said he supported abortion rights and would oppose efforts to overturn Roe v. Wade. Chris Udall described himself as "pro life."
The Udalls seem so closely aligned on issues that a race between them would seem more likely to turn on personality, appearance or a campaign style that both promised would remain upbeat and respectful.
"Udalls have certainly had their political differences," said Chris Udall, "but civility runs in the family."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Udall, left, a Republican, could possibly face his cousin, Stephen G. Udall, a Democrat, in a race for a new Arizona Congressional seat. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times) Map of Arizona highlighting First Congressional District: A new Arizona district covers nearly half the state's square miles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); REDISTRICTING (77%); CENSUS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (61%); RELIGION (61%) REAPPORTIONMENT; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: TOM UDALL (79%); MARK UDALL (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GORDON SMITH (58%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; UDALL, STEPHEN G; UDALL, CHRIS; HAYWORTH, J D (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) ARIZONA

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



637 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: FLIGHT SAFETY LEGISLATION; 
U.S. Now Faces Big Task to Fill Air-Safety Jobs

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Federal officials began struggling today with the immense challenge of hiring and training 28,000 new federal employees to screen passengers and baggage at all airports within 12 months.
 The new federal work force is required under an aviation security bill passed by Congress today, by voice vote in the Senate and then by a vote of 410 to 9 in the House. All the no votes were cast by Republicans. Mr. Bush plans to sign the measure on Monday. 
 In an interview tonight, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said he did not have a detailed plan or timetable for hiring screeners or carrying out other aspects of the legislation. 
"We will throw out the net as far and as wide as we can to come up with a work force," said Mr. Mineta, whose department will be in charge of security at 423 commercial airports across the country. 
"About three weeks ago," Mr. Mineta said, "we started to put together a broad outline of all the tasks that have to be done. But nothing has been refined to the point of saying that on Nov. 26, for example, we will advertise job fairs in 27 communities."
Mr. Mineta was a Democratic member of Congress from California for 20 years and is well regarded on Capitol Hill. But he faces a huge challenge. Federal officials said they could not immediately think of any exact precedents for the hiring of so many full-time workers by the government in such a short time.
The Transportation Department will set the salaries and will specify the health and pension benefits for screeners.
The chief Senate sponsor of the legislation, Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, said the government would be able to attract well-qualified people because it would pay screeners $30,000 to $35,000 a year, compared with wages of $15,000 now paid by some private companies.
Under the bill, the federal government must recruit, hire, train, test and deploy 28,000 screeners within a year. After three years with federal employees, airports can seek permission from the government to use private screeners or local law enforcement officers to do the work, though federal officials do not expect many airports to take that option.
Other provisions of the bill call for the inspection of all checked baggage, the reinforcement of cockpit doors and a significant increase in the number of sky marshals. 
Although President Bush said he would sign the bill, the large increase in federal hiring goes against the smaller-government philosophy he and House Republicans have advocated.
A united Senate, pushing for the screeners to be federal workers, was able to prevail in negotiations with the House on Thursday. Continuing security problems at airports and polls showing strong public support strengthened the Senate's hand.
"As a conservative," said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, "I was loath to support any wanton expansion of the federal government. But we are giving the president the flexible program he has requested. We are exempting these federal employees from Civil Service Act requirements and creating a system that, on the eve of one of our most important and most traveled family holidays, will send a strong message of confidence to the American people."
Members of Congress said the bill, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, would go far toward preventing a repetition of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. In addition, they said, the bill will help revive the economy by restoring public confidence in the safety of air travel.
Senator Hollings said: "Congress has made its decision. Now let the administration, the president, enforce it." 
Mr. Hollings said the government faced "a very difficult task" in carrying out the bill's provisions. But he said it could be done if Mr. Bush appointed a "hard charger" to lead transportation security.
Senator Hollings put the administration on notice. "We're going to keep their feet to the fire," he said, to make sure air travelers see tangible improvements in security.
Mr. Mineta said that before hiring federal screeners, he would send federal law enforcement officers to all airports to monitor the work of private security companies under contract with the airlines. Mr. Mineta said there would soon be a federal law enforcement officer at each of the 740 screening checkpoints at the 423 commercial airports.
Beth Moten, legislative director of the American Federation of Government Employees, which represents 600,000 federal workers, said: "It will take a little time for the government to do the background checks, but it's not an insurmountable task at all. The pay scale for screeners will be quite decent."
The new screeners will have to be United States citizens, will not have the right to strike and can be dismissed from their jobs if they do not meet performance standards.
"Present employees of screening companies are eligible to apply for the new jobs if they are U.S. citizens," Mr. Mineta said. At some airports, more than half of the screeners are not United States citizens.
Transportation Department officials said they did not have detailed plans for hiring screeners because, until today, they were unsure whether their agency or the Justice Department would be in charge of the new work force. The Justice Department would have been responsible under the bill passed unanimously by the Senate on Oct. 11. 
The federal government has 1.8 million civilian employees. The number of people hired varies: 109,000 in 1988, 40,000 in 1994 and 52,000 in 1999. By any measure, the new federal work force will be a large one.
The government's task may be made easier by the fact that the economy is weak and unemployment has been rising. When the Federal Aviation Administration held job fairs to hire security agents in four cities last week, it got 2,500 applications for 225 temporary jobs.
"There's clearly a market out there," said Scott Brenner, a spokesman for the aviation agency. "Of course, I don't know how many of these folks are qualified."
Representative Greg Ganske, Republican of Iowa, said, "With the downturn in the economy, I suspect there will be an awful lot of people applying for these jobs."
Janice R. Lachance, who was director of the Office of Personnel Management under President Bill Clinton, was asked if it was possible for the government to hire 28,000 screeners in 12 months, and she said: "Absolutely. You are starting with a work force that has experience with this. I assume they have a desire and would be encouraged to apply.
"You have to develop new standards that will meet today's public safety challenge," Ms. Lachance added. "Once you get the standards in place, it's a matter of logistics -- doing the appropriate background checks, processing applications, doing interviews, checking references."
The most difficult element of the hiring process will be the background investigations, which could take 30 to 45 days for each applicant, Ms. Lachance said. 
But when nearly 11,500 members of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization went on strike against the federal government in 1981 and were dismissed by President Ronald Reagan, a large training requirement posed an even greater hurdle. A reduced level of flights was maintained by using 5,000 strikers, more than 3,000 supervisors and as many as 500 retirees and controllers borrowed from the military. In addition, nearly 1,200 new controllers were trained within nine months.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representatives Dick Armey, left, and John L. Mica, yesterday with luggage used as props in a news briefing on the airline security bill. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); AIRLINES (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; AIRPORTS; LUGGAGE; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; MARSHALS 

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); JOHN L MICA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) PEAR, ROBERT; MINETA, NORMAN Y (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



638 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED -- AN OVERVIEW: NOV. 16, 2001; 
Setback for Al Qaeda, Vote for Air Safety, Money for New York

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
Their bombing may not have hit the big prey, but American officials say it will have to do for now. They said airstrikes in Kabul were believed to have killed Muhammad Atef, one of Osama bin Laden's most trusted aides and a man believed to have helped plan the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. In short, the Americans say the bin Laden terror network, Al Qaeda, is hurting, though it remains a decided threat.
 BIG LOSS FOR AL QAEDA -- If Mr. Atef, a former Egyptian policeman, is indeed dead, Mr. bin Laden has lost an important strategist who had been at his side throughout the last decade, when Al Qaeda became a much-feared, far-flung operation. One senior American official in law enforcement predicted that the network would fragment. But that did not mean it would disappear, he said, for it has cells around the world. 
 As for Mr. bin Laden, he was still presumed to be in Afghanistan, exact whereabouts unknown. Either he or his lieutenants had abandoned a couple of houses in Kabul before they could get rid of evidence of Al Qaeda's training methods and planning. Among the items left behind were a flight simulator computer program, a list of American flight schools and documents describing unconventional weapons.
There were also 18 antitank missiles in one house, which belonged to the Taliban government. The Taliban, in retreat all week, were barely holding on. With American ground troops in action, the Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, was said to be on the verge of giving up Kandahar, his last major city.
ANOTHER TAINTED LETTER -- On the anthrax front, a threat that seems to have receded, investigators sifting through tons of unopened mail on Capitol Hill found a new letter apparently tainted with bacteria. Postmarked Oct. 9 in Trenton, it was sent to Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, and resembled letters mailed to Senator Tom Daschle, NBC News and The New York Post. 
No one is known to have been sickened by the Leahy letter. For federal agents, its discovery reinforced suspicions that they are dealing with a domestic terrorist, possibly a loner with scientific know-how.
TIGHTENING AIRPORT SECURITY -- As expected, a long-awaited bill to improve aviation security breezed through both houses of Congress and is likely to be signed by President Bush on Monday, just before the peak traveling season. Democrats got what they wanted: making federal employees of 28,000 airport workers who will screen baggage and passengers. The saving grace for Republicans was an agreement that after three years airports could seek government permission to turn to private security companies.
Now, as they say, comes the hard part. The Transportation Department has 12 months to find those 28,000 people. But where? One obvious place to start is the pool of airport screeners already working for private contractors. The problem is that many are not United States citizens, as the bill requires. Perhaps more to the point, the questionable competence of those workers and their companies was what led to this legislation. There could be rough sledding ahead, some on Capitol Hill said, although others counted on relatively high salaries -- $35,000 a year or so has been mentioned, about double the going rate -- to attract plenty of qualified people at a time when jobs are scarce.
The debate over the aviation bill showed that Democrats and Republicans are as divided as ever over the role of government. They managed to gloss over ideological differences in the name of improved airport security. But they have gone nowhere -- and the White House has done little to prod them -- when it comes to giving the stalled economy a kick-start. The parties' positions are almost theologically held, the Republicans having full faith in the restorative powers of tax cuts, the Democrats believing in new government spending. If they do not come to agreement soon, some economists warned, a troubled 2001 could give way to a dismal 2002.
$2 BILLION MORE FOR NEW YORK -- New York at least got a boost when the White House agreed to give it an extra $2 billion, on top of a previous $9.2 billion, for its post-Sept. 11 recovery. Right after the terrorist attacks, Mr. Bush promised $20 billion in federal aid, but then disagreements arose over the pace of payments. Members of Congress from New York doubt the fervor of "I <heart> New York" sentiment in Washington, and so they have pressed, with only partial success, for the money to be paid up front. CLYDE HABERMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORISM (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (86%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ANTHRAX (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); BACTERIA (73%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (71%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (63%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (50%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001 



639 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN'S BOOKS; 
This Land Was His Land

BYLINE:  By Perri Klass; Perri Klass is a pediatrican and the author of "Love and Modern Medicine."

 BODY:
 WOODY GUTHRIE
Poet of the People.
Written and illustrated
by Bonnie Christensen.
Unpaged. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $16.95. (All ages)
 THE story of Woody Guthrie's life and music, as told in this beautiful book, is in large part the story of the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl years, World War II and the union struggles, and the songs and ballads of those times. In evocative illustrations that resemble woodcuts, familiar "Grapes of Wrath" images -- dust-ravaged prairies, overloaded cars heading west, labor camps -- are illuminated and ornamented with the words of the song "This Land Is Your Land," which is treated as both an anthem and a call to action.
Born in 1912, Guthrie grew up with a series of family tragedies: a sister who died; a father who left; a mother whose odd behavior, called a "nervous disorder," turned out to be the onset of the debilitating and ultimately fatal Huntington's chorea, the same illness that eventually killed Guthrie in 1967. And there were also the national hardships of poverty, economic depression and war. But this is also, as Bonnie Christensen's subtitle, "Poet of the People," suggests, a story of populist hope, social change and the power of folk music. 
Christensen's palette, rich but muted grays and browns and greens, still allows for the uplifting beauty of the light shining through the window as the child Woody's mother plays the piano to him. Again, in one final image, the light of the horizon offers hope and promise as the man with the guitar strapped to his back walks off across the fields: 
When the sun come shining, then I was strolling 
In wheat fields waving, and dust clouds rolling; 
The voice was chanting as the fog was lifting: 
This land was made for you and me. 
At its best, Christensen's prose recalls Guthrie's own words, whether in his songs or in his autobiography, "Bound for Glory," with plain prairie cadences and the unabashed populist politics of "Union Maid." Her book is remarkably successful in evoking its era and its hero, that traveling man with the guitar on his back.
"This Land Is Your Land" is often treated as a happy, simple school song. Parents who want to take their children through and beyond the most familiar lyrics will find more complex stories and ideas here: the life and times of one very specific songwriter, the natural and political landscape that produced and informed this most American of poets -- and a full set of lyrics to "This Land," incorporating celebration and struggle, hymn and protest song.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Detail of an illustration by Bonnie Christensen from "Woody Guthrie." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); POETRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); LITERATURE (72%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); GENETIC DISEASES (68%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: KLASS, PERRI; CHRISTENSEN, BONNIE; GUTHRIE, WOODY (1912-67) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: WOODY GUTHRIE: POET OF THE PEOPLE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



640 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Pass the Raw Seal 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Royte; Elizabeth Royte is the author of "The Tapir's Morning Bath: Mysteries of the Tropical Rain Forest and the Scientists Who Are Trying to Solve Them."

 BODY:
 THIS COLD HEAVEN
Seven Seasons in Greenland.
By Gretel Ehrlich.
Illustrated. 377 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $27.50.
 Starting in 1910, the Danish-Inuit explorer Knud Rasmussen made seven major expeditions through Greenland and the polar north. While he mapped and botanized, he also collected the folklore of the native Inuit. Rasmussen traveled by dog sled and entered Eskimo villages quietly. He listened carefully, and he slowly won the confidence of his study subjects.
Eighty-five years later, the writer and poet Gretel Ehrlich traveled through Greenland with a similar modus operandi. On her first visit, she sought solace: she reports that ever since an accident -- she was struck by lightning -- she's felt euphoric above
76 degrees north latitude. Immediately smitten by the Inuit and their frozen landscape, she set herself a task: to learn how these people lived, how ice had shaped their minds and their society. "This Cold Heaven" chronicles her extended journeys through Greenland over seven seasons.
The Inuit, who as a people speak the same language in Alaska, across the Northwest Territories and into Greenland, have lived largely the same way for 16,000 years. They crossed the Bering Land Bridge from Siberia as early as 30,000 years ago and wandered slowly east across the continent, reaching Greenland 5,000 years ago. Ehrlich arrived to find the northern Inuit still wearing skins, traveling by dog sled and hunting daily to feed themselves.
But this cold-adapted subsistence culture was in a period of unsettling transition. In Canada, Inuit were racing snowmobiles across the ice; many Greenlanders felt the temptation. Global warming was melting the icecaps, which made winter hunting unreliable. In the south, hunters had started fishing. Wives worked in town to pay bills. "That's how life gets its burdens and becomes broken," a hunter tells Ehrlich. "Then, pretty soon, no one remembers how to live the other way."
Of Greenland's four seasons -- one dark, one light and two twilight -- Ehrlich came to embrace the winter, when seas freeze into highways of ice, and traveling, hunting and storytelling resume. Darkness does wonderful things for the imagination, and the Inuit live in a world alive with mountain dwarfs, seagoing giants, naked spirits and foxes that mate with women.
"The landscape itself, with its shifting and melting ice, its mirages, glaciers and drifting icebergs, is less a description of desolation than an ode to the beauty of impermanence," Ehrlich writes. Trained as a filmmaker, she's supremely sensitive to nuances of light and makes much of polar opposites: day and night, light and dark, liquid and solid, wakefulness and sleep. The metaphors flow, some beautifully -- The Arctic's continuously shifting planes of light and dark were like knives thrown in a drawer" -- and some alarmingly: a rock formation resembles "fluted vaginas cut in half by ice." Sometimes, but not often enough, Ehrlich combines her poetic intensity with scientific information on optical cells, hormones, circadian rhythms and the movement of icebergs.
There's a touch of Joan Didion's neurasthenia in Ehrlich, but her high-maintenance head is balanced by a remarkably low-maintenance body. In the classic explorers' tradition, Ehrlich skips meals and sleep without complaint. She forgoes vegetables and bathing. She arrives in villages with no place to stay. She sleeps in a room where the snow does not melt. She lives for a month in one set of clothing.
The only drawback to her stoicism is that she doesn't let us know what much of this feels like. On one hunting trip, she sleeps on a "bare skull of ice with only a skin and a few slats of wood between us and its cold brain." It's a nice image, but was she cold?
Ehrlich alternates chapters on her own perambulations with retellings of Rasmussen's. In broad, concise strokes, she describes the hardships he endured in pursuit of ethnographic data and fresh meat. She presents that era's human sacrifice, cannibalism, child selling, wife swapping and trans-species eroticism as mere concessions to the vagaries of tribal life in a cold climate.
Rasmussen's hunting parties often faced starvation. They'd slaughter a musk ox, gorge on raw meat, then 10 days later find themselves hungry enough to eat rabbit droppings and lichen. Rasmussen falls through the ice and refuses dry clothing. His men sleep on bare snow. They drift for days on ever-diminishing ice floes.
Compelled to experience all things Inuit (Arctic bathing, raw seal, squalor, romance on the runners), Ehrlich shoves her fur-trimmed mitts under the lash ropes of dog sleds and glides off into the big darkness. Her companions are polar Leatherstockings, rough-and-ready hunters with meteorological stations and maps -- of glaciers, open water, animal migrations -- in their heads.
Like Rasmussen, she falls through the ice (the scenes are thrilling), and she experiences acute hunger. But after bringing readers so far, Ehrlich now lets us down. We learn she's eaten nearly nothing for two days. Finally, a seal is shot; some of it is eaten, and the dogs
are fed. Still, stomachs growl, the group moves on. "All evening we traveled in the storm. At tea, there was no view, no coastline, no islands ahead, no ceiling, no floor. We ate sandwiches, a candy bar and a few cookies."
The reader reels. Did our travelers pass a deli? A magic dwarf who caters? She cries wolf again: after losing her luggage, she describes herself as "shorn of property," but she's soon camping with some "dehydrated food that I'd brought from America." Too often, Ehrlich tells only half the story. While she is living in town, she writes, her house stinks because the frozen toilet "has not been emptied for days." Well, why not? And how? When we learn that a zucchini costs $5, it's like discovering gold. Perhaps fearing that such mundane details would detract from her heroic portrayal, Ehrlich generally steers clear of them.
The most emotionally affecting of Ehrlich's threads is the story of her attachment to a 6-year-old girl on the tiny island of Illorsuit. Ehrlich and Marie Louisa spend sun-blinded days together, in silence or in a laughing garble of Greenlandic, Danish and English that neither understands. And yet they understand each other perfectly. The girl's mother is an alcoholic, and her father worries about her education. In love with the raven-haired Marie Louisa, Ehrlich offers to take her away -- to rescue her. Bad weather separates them for years; the scenes of leave-taking are heart-rending.
Marie Louisa's story is emblematic of choices modern Inuit must make: to remain in traditional villages (which lack proper schools) and practice the ancient survival arts, or to greet the modern world armed with an education, the better to avoid the unemployment, alcoholism and violence that infect larger towns.
Ehrlich passes quickly over these social ills. Like many a seeker, she comes to reject the values of her home and to embrace, uncritically, the Other. As presented here, the Inuit who live in the old ways exist on some higher plane, in communion with the spirits, land, water, animals. In contrast, Ehrlich says she comes from a place "where greed supplants regeneration, litigation supplants intimacy, and envy supplants aspiration."
SHE tries to cross over. Living on Illorsuit, she sleeps when sleep comes, eats when food appears. She tears up her calendar and laughs at the clock on the wall, stuck for 15 years at 12:24. Ehrlich wants readers to believe she succumbed to a dreamy sort of stop-time, but she gives herself away. A boat picks her up after a month. How did she know when it would come? She tells us she waited on the beach until 7 p.m. The fact is meant to reveal that she's transcended impatience, but it raises instead the question: how did she know the hour?
These are petty complaints, but Ehrlich's habit of withholding wears the reader out. "This Cold Heaven" suffers from a lack of information about its author. We don't know where she comes from, in the psychological sense, so it's difficult to get a bead on where she's going, or how her experiences change her. Why is she drawn back to Greenland? What do the Inuit make of this woman traveling solo? What does she make of herself?
Ehrlich has written a stunning portrait of a people and the landscape that shaped them. Her story has great emotional and physical sweep, and one shares her sense of loss at leaving this peculiarly fascinating place. "For seven years I used the island as a looking glass: part window, part mirror," she writes. It's a pity we can't learn what she saw of herself in that glass.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); FOLKLORE (77%); MAMMALS (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); POETRY (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ROYTE, ELIZABETH; EHRLICH, GRETEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (79%) GREENLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

TITLE: THIS COLD HEAVEN: SEVEN SEASONS IN GREENLAND (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



641 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: THE CLOSE READER; 
Eulogy for a Little Magazine

BYLINE:  By Judith Shulevitz 

 BODY:
Lingua Franca was not a magazine to sink your savings into. The initial pitch had the feel of self-parody -- The American Lawyer for academics! -- with the twist that instead of hunting for scandal in courtrooms and law firms, Lingua Franca writers were going to track it down in graduate seminars and faculty lounges. But Lingua Franca's founder, a former professor of French named Jeffrey Kittay, refused to see that his premise was ridiculous. He maintained that university politics and scholarly debate, written about in the right way, could make for good copy, not just for academics but for everybody. His magazine proved his point with such force that after 10 years it had become the standard against which most other intellectual journalism was measured. 
 But though Lingua Franca was beloved and much talked about and imitated, it never succeeded in the way that matters most -- financially. Last month, it lost its main backer and folded. Magazines like Lingua Franca are often accused of being too smart for a broader audience, but that isn't their problem. Many mass-market publications are smart too; they just use their brainpower to synthesize a wider range of material. The problem with little magazines is that they're little. Their limited subject matter consigns them to audiences so small no one can make money off them. 
 Big magazines make their money on advertising, but advertisers aren't interested in little-magazine-size audiences. Little magazines need to make money from circulation, and because the only known way to attract and retain subscribers is through direct mail solicitation, which is costly -- at least $50 per new subscriber -- they are stuck with a big, inescapable fixed expense. That expense, more than any other, is what did Lingua Franca in.
Smallness has its advantages, though. I worked at Lingua Franca for three years, and my first day there I discovered that the founding editor had quit a few days before, leaving behind a junior editor who had been about to go on leave and me. Neither of us had the slightest idea how to put out a magazine. We committed Lingua Franca's resources to overambitious pieces, leaving ourselves with nothing to publish half the time. We poked fun at our audience, too naive to worry about the letters that would, and did, come in. I have no doubt that we sometimes came off as highhanded and bratty. We worked twice as hard as we would have had to work had we made fewer mistakes. And yet somehow the magazine was a critical success, as it had been before we ran it. 
The moral of this story is not that my co-editor and I were granted a rare opportunity to make fools of ourselves, though we were and would wish the same for every aspiring editor. The moral is that the magazine was probably the better for our inexperience -- edgier, weirder, less likely to take the official line on things. Knowing what we know now, I doubt we could come up with the same kind of magazine. Our successor at Lingua Franca, Alexander Star, was younger and had less experience than we, and under his tenure the magazine became even better. 
It should come as no surprise that at any given moment, much of the innovation in journalism bubbles up from little magazines staffed and edited largely by people who are just starting out and don't know what they're doing. The same is true of the theater, of the technology industry, of comics and cartoons, even of government; most federal policies began as experiments at the state and local levels. 
When we talk about little magazines -- The New Republic, The Washington Monthly, The Sciences, The Weekly Standard, Lingua Franca, Slate.com, Salon, Granta, The Forward -- we tend to speak of them in the pious tones usually reserved for do-gooders. They serve an important public function. They contribute to the national discourse. They do all that, of course, but so does Vanity Fair. That's not why they matter. Little magazines have influence -- and deserve to have it -- only to the degree that they're surprising and amusing and provocative, and they are those things to the degree that they strive and struggle and tackle their missions in ways no established and more solidly financed publication would bother with. 
Friends and admirers have been telling Kittay what a blow the closing of Lingua Franca is, since there is no longer a place to read what had evolved into the trademark Lingua Franca story -- the long and serious, though often witty, narrative of literary or scientific or philosophical controversy. What they say is true, and sad. Even sadder is the thought of all the up-and-comers, who might have scrapped the Lingua Franca formula for something better, being swallowed up instead by large academic or journalistic institutions, where they won't have nearly the same latitude, or at least not until they're older.
How will little magazines survive? Traditionally, they have patrons: people or, more rarely, corporations who bet against hope that this one time, this particular magazine will make it. That quixotic impulse seems unlikely to flourish in our throttled economy. The future may lie with foundations, although most of these have a bureaucratic horror of controversy that is deadly to reporting and criticism. Sometimes I indulge the fantasy that the answer is to be found in the public sector -- that in some distant rosy future, government will see that the little magazine is as essential to the nation's intellectual health as the arts are to its cultural health, and start a no-strings-attached national endowment for young journalists working at marginal publications. But that form of financing has its drawbacks, too, since government-supported reporters may be loath to carp at their benefactor. 
For the time being, in any case, we're stuck with the rich. Let us pray for their continued magnanimity, and remind them that they could lose more and gain less with many other, equally prestigious, quasi-vanity investments. After all, if it's posterity they're after, they should consider all the little magazines -- Harper's, The Nation, The New Republic, The Atlantic Monthly -- that were launched more than a century ago, rarely, if ever, turned a profit, yet became the great and established, if still little-ish, magazines of the present, outlasting almost every more lucrative publication along the way.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (69%) MAGAZINES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: LINGUA FRANCA (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: SHULEVITZ, JUDITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



642 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY; 
Beyond the Khyber Pass

BYLINE:  By John Sifton; John Sifton is a human rights lawyer who has worked in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

 BODY:
 REAPING THE WHIRLWIND
The Taliban Movement in Afghanistan.
By Michael Griffin.
283 pp. Sterling, Va.:
Pluto Press. $27.50.

TALIBAN
Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism
in Central Asia.
By Ahmed Rashid.
274 pp. New Haven:
Nota Bene/Yale University Press.
Paper, $14.95.

AFGHANISTAN'S ENDLESS WAR
State Failure, Regional Politics,
and the Rise of the Taliban.
By Larry P. Goodson.
264 pp. Seattle:
University of Washington Press.
Cloth, $35. Paper, $22.50.

AFGHANISTAN
By Chris Steele-Perkins.
127 pp. North Pomfret, Vt.:
Trafalgar Square Publishing. $50.

THE SEARCH FOR PEACE
IN AFGHANISTAN
From Buffer State to Failed State.
By Barnett R. Rubin.
190 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press. $40.
It is not easy to explain America to Afghans: football, Hollywood, shopping malls. I tried myself this summer on the request of some Taliban officials in Kabul, who invited me to lunch and then asked me, "What is your country like?" 
Where to begin? I described the subway in New York City, the mayor, highways, big fields of corn in Iowa, but I think my words fell short, to the disappointment of my hosts. There are just so many complexities in any culture: an infinite number of details to cover (a little history, some life on the street, biographies of principal political actors). How do you sum up one nation to another? 
Now America wants to know all about Afghanistan and its complexities. From television and newspapers we are learning of the Northern Alliance, rivalries among ethnic groups like the Pashtun, Tajiks and Uzbeks, refugees in Pakistan, rebel commanders being executed, a former Afghan king who lives in Italy. Bombs are falling astray and killing civilians who live in mud huts with animals. It looks like the Middle Ages. Who are these people? Everyone wants to understand how Afghanistan came to be what it is today, and who the Afghan people really are. Is understanding even possible? 
The answer is yes. Actually, there are many good books available about Afghanistan, several of them published in the last 5 to 10 years. Two of the most recent are among the most enlightening in the current situation. The rise of the Taliban is the focus of Michael Griffin's "Reaping the Whirlwind: The Taliban Movement in Afghanistan" and Ahmed Rashid's "Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia"; published last year, Rashid's book has become a best seller in paperback. 
Both books cover events from the fall of the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul in 1992 through the Taliban's key victories in 1998, which drove opposition forces into the mountainous northeast of the country. And both are filled with the dramatic moments, ironies and political intrigues that color the Taliban's rise. We read about idiosyncratic former mujahedeen commanders like Ahmed Shah Massoud of the Northern Alliance, the legendary fighter who won over many Western journalists with his good looks, charm and apparent humble piety and who was assassinated on Sept. 9 (in an attack believed to be carried out by agents of Osama bin Laden). We hear all about the Taliban's erstwhile supporters: the Pakistani intelligence services, regional smugglers, drug kingpins, well-financed Islamic extremist organizations, Osama bin Laden and reportedly even two oil companies interested in building pipelines in Afghanistan. 
Rashid, a Pakistani journalist, devotes an entire chapter to bin Laden, including the story of the C.I.A.'s failed attempts to capture him in 1997, before the American Embassy bombings in East Africa. This material is especially valuable to anyone interested in learning about bin Laden's early involvement with Afghanistan and his connection to the Taliban. But the book contains much more than this. It offers a detailed account of the Taliban movement's growth, not as a historical inevitability or accident but as a preventable and resistible rise. Rashid describes how the movement evolved from its early years and became more involved with Al Qaeda, bin Laden's organization. He outlines the military and political specifics of the Taliban conquest and examines the Taliban phenomenon -- its assault on women, its connections with the drug trade and its relationship with non-Afghan Islamic warriors who fought in Afghanistan against the Soviets. While he portrays some of the "dirty hands" involved in the Taliban ascendance, he offers no exculpation for the movement itself: Rashid clearly condemns the Taliban leaders for all their cruelty, shortsightedness and irrationality. 
Griffin also supplies the important facts, but emphasizes different elements of the story. We read more about America's efforts against bin Laden, and the reaction from bin Laden and the Taliban after President Bill Clinton launched air strikes against his network in 1998. We get the tale of how the Taliban approached Washington early in 1999 (specifically, the State Department's new assistant secretary for South Asia, Karl Inderfurth) for advice on "dealing with their guest," and we hear about the mostly unknown efforts of two members of Congress, Dana Rohrabacher and Benjamin Gilman, to uncover what they thought might be unsavory skulduggery by rogue elements in the United States Embassy in Pakistan. Where this speculation goes, though, no one knows. An independently run foreign policy out of Islamabad? Or possible secret cooperation between the Clinton administration and the Taliban for unknown purposes? Griffin raises the possibility, but offers no new evidence. He seems reluctant to investigate, as though skeptical that the American government has the capacity for such underhanded dealings. But such skepticism (if that's what it is) seems naive. 
In both Rashid's and Griffin's books, there is humor, tragedy and banality. Griffin writes about the craze for the movie "Titanic" that gripped the residents of Kabul during 2000, much to the Taliban's dismay (one wonders whether Kabulis appreciated the irony of embracing this sentimental tale of a doomed ship). Rashid describes the imposition of the now infamous Taliban restrictions in Afghanistan, including an account of the bizarre punishments designed for various offenses -- for men convicted of sodomy, the "previously unheard of 'Islamic' punishment of having a wall toppled over them." We hear from Griffin about the detention in Kabul of a 71-year-old American aid worker, Mary MacMakin, for "spying and spreading anti-Taliban propaganda." In fact, MacMakin founded a set of women's sewing and income-generating projects in Pakistan and Kabul. (I bought a doll from one of her projects in Peshawar this summer, complete with a little burqa that goes over it. Widely known as totally fearless, MacMakin was still in Pakistan after the air strikes in Afghanistan began on Oct. 7. I saw her bicycling home one night on the streets of Peshawar, even as other expatriates like myself were safely ensconced in guarded compounds.)
Rashid's book ends in mid-1999, before the coup in Pakistan that gave Gen. Pervez Musharraf the power he is currently employing in cooperation with the United States against the Taliban. Griffin's book runs on to tell the tale of that coup in late 1999, including the incongruous image of General Musharraf on a golf course near Colombo, Sri Lanka, getting a satellite phone call informing him that he's been canned by Pakistan's then president, Nawaz Sharif, which prompted him to return home and overthrow the government. Griffin's book ends in late 2000, just after the attack on the American destroyer Cole in Yemen. 
Which book is better? Both Griffin and Rashid write well. Of the two, however, Rashid is the superior storyteller, most likely because of his deep familiarity with the region (he has long covered Afghanistan for several Pakistani and British newspapers and magazines) and his firsthand experience interviewing many of the subjects of the book; he also offers some interesting appendixes, including the text of Taliban decrees on women. Griffin admits he has visited the region for a total of only six months, and that his account offers only an "outsider's version of events," a collation of "hundreds of local and international reports" on Afghanistan that might serve as an "aide-memoire for a future generation of Afghan historians." His humility is appreciated, but it should be noted that he writes engagingly, and his footnotes and sourcing will indeed prove useful. 
Less vivid than these books but more comprehensive is Larry P. Goodson's "Afghanistan's Endless War: State Failure, Regional Politics, and the Rise of the Taliban," a comprehensive history of Afghan politics in the 20th century, highlighting the events leading up to the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan (which effectively instigated American involvement in the region). As Goodson makes clear, modern Afghanistan has experienced almost every type of society known to exist: constitutional monarchy, democratic experiment, quasi-fascist autocracy, military occupation, anarchy and finally radical religious theocracy. This is a story worth recounting in any context, but especially tragic to consider while the nation is being bombed by the world's sole superpower. 
Goodson's intention is to offer a "single work" analyzing the "factors that have historically been most influential in Afghanistan (ethnicity, state-versus-society struggles, Islamic ideology, economy) and the way in which Afghanistan today influences a dramatically changed region." It's useful reading for anyone who wants a guide to the overall economic, social, cultural and political situation at the present moment. 
For a more visceral understanding of Afghanistan, it might be best to abandon the written word altogether and turn to an excellent new book of photography, "Afghanistan," by Chris Steele-Perkins. His pictures offer an uncannily accurate representation of life in Afghanistan, with all its suffering: beggar women in torn and dirty burqas, men with legs lost to mines, the resilient children of Kabul running in the streets. Turning the pages a few weeks ago, not long after I returned from Afghanistan, I thought, "This is it: this is exactly what it looks like." 
Still, none of the preceding books on its own is sufficient to address the most important issue that faces Afghanistan now: its future. The outcome will be influenced heavily by the characters waiting in the wings to take power from the Taliban. To get a proper bearing on all these actors, one must turn to an earlier book that, while not a captivating tale of recent Afghan history, is nevertheless an indispensable source for understanding Afghanistan's future. That book is Barnett R. Rubin's "Search for Peace in Afghanistan: From Buffer State to Failed State" (1995). 
Rubin may be one of the most knowledgeable people in America about Afghanistan -- certainly he understands its past and present politics better than almost anyone in the Bush administration. (For example, the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, revealed her ignorance about the region in June 2000 when, as an adviser to the Bush campaign, she suggested without explanation that Iran and the Taliban were somehow in cahoots, despite the fact that Iran has supported anti-Taliban forces for more than five years and almost declared war on the Taliban in 1998). 
Rubin has been around the Afghanistan scene for well over a decade, and has interviewed scores of important political actors involved in the region: United States and United Nations representatives, Taliban foreign ministers, representatives of the Afghan diaspora. He knows how efforts to build peace and stability in Afghanistan have repeatedly failed: from 1988, when a United Nations-mediated agreement heralded a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan but arranged no real future Afghan government, to the period from 1992 to 1994, when the United Nations failed (albeit without any serious American or Russian support) to help secure a peace among warring Afghan parties, effectively setting the stage for Taliban ascendance. Bloody hands are everywhere: Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bill Clinton; various career diplomats in the State Department; Pakistan's rulers and Afghan leaders who refused to make concessions that would allow peace.
Rubin clearly rejects the put-all-the-blame-in-one-place thinking that often clouds analysis of why Afghanistan descended into the chaos that it is in today. As he notes, it is impossible to stop blaming once the blame starts to roll. He writes, dryly, that if the United States had not initially aided certain mujahedeen parties over others, later problems in the peace negotiations would not have occurred, but then, if the Soviet Union had not supported the Afghan Communist Party and intervened militarily, "the United States might not have devoted such resources to building up an Islamist resistance." He goes on: if Pakistan had not rebuffed certain Afghan political moves in the 1960's and 1970's, Afghan rulers would not have turned to the Soviet Union, "and so on, back to Genghis Khan and beyond. Such arguments lead everywhere and nowhere." The better course is to stop blaming, and appreciate the lesson that fixing failed states can only be accomplished through "sustained cooperative effort" by the international community. This is a valuable lesson that the United States must heed in the coming years.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Andrei Poteryaylo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REFUGEES (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNICITY (66%); BESTSELLERS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); RETAILERS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NOTA BENE (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); ASIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



643 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: ON THE VERGE; 
A Landscape in Peril

BYLINE:  By Timothy Egan; Timothy Egan, who writes for The Times from Seattle, is the author of "Lasso the Wind: Away to the New West" (Vintage).

 BODY:
Well before German marks and drachmas began showing up at the City Market in Moab, before Lycra became the second skin of nearly every visitor, even before cell phones became tourists' essential companions, the novelist and wilderness defender Edward Abbey wrote about the enduring paradox of Utah's canyon country: it is "the least inhabited, least developed, least improved, least civilized, most arid, most hostile, most lonesome, most grim bleak barren desolate and savage quarter of the state of Utah -- the best part by far."
 A dozen years after Abbey's death, the "savage quarter" is anything but lonesome, though it may still be best part of Utah. Carved by the Colorado River and fine-sculptured by a frisky wind, the high, dry land of southeast Utah has become one of the foremost playgrounds for people on fat tires, four tires, rubber rafts and all manner of transport in between. 
 A shout still falls away in the white light of a desert afternoon. Stars still press through the inky bowl of a night sky. And the canyons, arches, spires and sandstone monuments are as immutable as ever in their demonstration of the slow clock of geologic time. But there is a sense around Moab that these natural wonders have too quickly become commodities, and that those who want to play among the canyons cannot do so all at once. 
Moabites complain that their town and surrounding country, dubbed the mountain-biking capital of the world, have been "Aspenized." I'm not exactly sure what that term means, but having heard it thrown around the West in conjunction with words usually reserved for people who start forest fires, I know it's not a good thing.
On the famous Slickrock Trail, just a pedal push outside Moab, mountain bikes are tire to tire -- more than 100,000 cyclists a year. All-terrain vehicles have torn up much of the fragile crust of the open land and eroded many of the back roads. Hyper-recreating tourists, park rangers say, are having the same effect on the terrain that mining and excessive grazing once did. Federal land managers have tried to keep campgrounds from becoming outdoor garbage dumps, and to teach people that what holds the canyon country together is a living skin that, once torn, can cause the ground to unravel. Still, as Bill Stevens, a Bureau of Land Management recreation specialist in Moab, says, "everything seems to be getting just a little out of hand."
The base elements of the canyon country -- sun, stone, wind, a wilderness of eroded rock and mazes -- used to repel people. It was a place for pygmy rattlesnakes, scorpions and howl-at-the-moon spiritualists. Abbey's book "Desert Solitaire" was based on two seasons spent near Moab, but now the title seems oxymoronic. Moab was a half-dead mining village with a couple of hard-edged taverns inhabited by men with chiggers in their beards. Old-timers, people who have lived in Moab since the days when Kokopelli was still a flute-playing legend and not real estate development, say a person could fall asleep in the middle of Main Street and not worry about a car coming by for hours.
What this area always had going for it was a surfeit of magnificent scenery -- Canyonlands National Park, southwest of town, Arches National Park, to the north, and more than two million acres of open terrain run by the Bureau of Land Management.
The Anasazi, of course, were all over the Colorado Plateau, leaving their closed-up stone apartments, their rock art of legless anthropomorphs and their pottery with its zigzags to eternity for later generations to puzzle over and interpret. Another group of inhabitants, Mormon settlers in the 1870's, named their town Moab after the biblical kingdom that was just short of the Promised Land. And short it remained, as a succession of ranchers and farmers tried to scratch a living out of the red dirt. The cold war gave a boost to uranium mining, transforming Moab into a boom town in the 1950's. But, as with all mining bubbles, the bust soon followed, and Moab settled into a slouch toward the grave.
A couple of John Wayne films, "Rio Grande" and "The Comancheros," and a biblical epic in which Wayne had a bit part, "The Greatest Story Ever Told," were filmed around Moab. It looked -- and felt -- empty and, at times, haunting.
Then, about 15 years ago, the canyon country was rediscovered, in frenzied fashion. Visitors to Arches National Park more than tripled in 20 years, from 269,489 in 1979 to 869,980 in 1999, and grew sixfold in Canyonlands during the same period, to 446,527. And the Bureau of Land Management property, once confined to lonely rockhounds, a handful of desert cowboys and a few petroglyph buffs, are now visited by more than a million people a year, in the estimate of federal officials in Utah, who say accurate counts are hard to come by.
In the early stages of the tourist boom, visitors came out of archaeological curiosity, or to roam and search for solitude. The canyon country is anything but linear, and it's not easy to read. Distances are deceptive. Temperatures can fall as much as 50 degrees from late afternoon to midnight. Humans can get swallowed in labyrinths of sandpapered rock. Afternoon thunderstorms can turn trickles into torrents, flooding canyons and stranding hikers. There are plenty of old mining roads all over the canyon country, but most of them are not marked. But the rewards for the visitor were, and still are, a sense of discovery and adventure in one of the last places in the continental United States to be fully mapped and charted.
Then came the toys, motorized and pedal powered, and, before long, Moab was mobbed, a town of barely 6,000 people with almost 2,000 hotel rooms. Mountain bikes did to Moab what surfboards did to remote beaches on Maui; the little town started to show up on lists of the best places for mountain biking and four-wheeling. Europeans, in particular, took to the odd-shaped features and pastel colors of the land.
Biking and Jeep clubs held jamborees, parties and field trips for masses of people. The shoulder seasons stretched into the winter. Spring-break keggers, built around daddy's Jeep and bonfires on public land, became a regular cause for a ranger's headache. All of this was good for an economy that had undergone a near-death experience, but the people who run the public lands saw it differently.
For one thing, the rangers know that the wrinkled topography of the canyon country is not a simple desert with a grand river running through it. The ground is alive and held together by a cryptobiotic crust, a thin tangle of lichens, bacteria, mosses and other components. Jeep and bike trails lead to its destruction. Park managers have tried to get people to stay on the maintained roads, but it has been a hit-or-miss effort. And once people get into the red rock maze, and get lost, they want immediate help.
"We get these cell phone calls all the time from people in their Jeeps who say, 'I'm lost and you need to come help me, but I can't tell you where I am,' " Stevens says.
Land managers worry that arches that predate the arrival of the first humans on the continent could be chipped or marred by the most recent visitors, or that the innumerable Anasazi sites in the south could be vandalized. Increasingly, the rangers have had to referee conflicts between the different groups scrambling for their piece of the canyon country -- hikers versus bikers, horseback riders versus four-wheelers, target shooters versus bird-watchers -- as new extreme sports are invented. The latest craze around Moab is base jumping, in which people with parachutes fall from the tops of tall spires and cliffs. The life insurance industry is not crazy about it.
Park rangers, whose dual mandate is to provide recreational ground for the public and to preserve it for future generations, have placed limits on back-country permits to certain areas, trying to funnel visitors into well-maintained campgrounds and encouraging them to follow desert etiquette on the fragile land. They report some success, and also say that visitor traffic has started to level off. But the people who run the Bureau of Land Management acreage -- with a small staff and few guidelines -- say they are dealing with something close to recreational anarchy.
Moab, like other golden settings in the West, may now be expanding from a tourist economy to real estate. Plans are well under way to develop 150 condominiums, a 225-room lodge and 110 houses on two-acre sites in a development called Cloudrock. It won't be long, some fear, until the local people become props -- as they are in Aspen, Colo., and Jackson Hole, Wyo. -- bused into town from distant places where housing is more affordable.
But many visitors are already moving on to the "next Moab," the other canyon country hamlets where espresso huts and bike-rental shops have sprouted overnight, places like Blanding, Monticello, Mexican Hat and Bluff. Within a few years, all will most likely lose their anonymity.
Abbey's biggest fear, as he celebrated this formerly underappreciated patch of America, was that people would run their motorized vehicles through places he considered holy. After all, he wrote, you can't drive a car into church. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Slickrock Trail draws more than 10,000 cyclists a year. Nearby, all-terrain vehicles have damaged fragile open land.; Sunrise inflames Arches National Park, north of Moab. (Lynn Donaldson for The New York Times) Map (Myra Klockenbrink for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAIN BIKING (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WILDERNESS (77%); WRITERS (77%); DESERTS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); FOREST FIRES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (69%); CYCLING (69%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); LANDFILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



644 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airports Becoming No-Buy Zones 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD; MATTHEW L. WALD is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
TRAVELERS who order a sandwich at Au Bon Pain at Pittsburgh International Airport may find that the bread looks as if it were hacked apart with a blunt instrument. It was. Security officials have taken away all the knives because the restaurant is inside the security perimeter, and workers behind the counter now have nothing sharper than a spreader, a metal disk originally designed for slathering mayonnaise or mustard on bread.
 At San Francisco International Airport, passengers can still buy a golf club at the shop in the terminal, but a putter is now a potential weapon, according to the Federal Aviation Administration, so it must be sent as checked baggage. At Reagan Washington National Airport, people making a day trip to Washington, arriving early and leaving late, will still see a row of fancy shops with enticing displays, but most will be closed. The airport used to insist that they open 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.; now they are open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
 And at La Guardia Airport, if the line to clear security is long enough, a Wendy's employee will take your food order as you stand waiting, and deliver your hamburger and fries in time for you to eat them before you reach the security checkpoint. 
Those are some of the effects on the airports of the Sept. 11 hijackings. The obvious commercial victims have been airlines and hotels, but airports are suffering, too. And worse is to come if the airports do not smooth out security problems and passengers do not return in their former numbers, according to airport executives and others. The upscale retailing that many airports have tried hard to nurture in recent years is mostly still in place, but largely because airports have forgiven some of the rent for September and October. That has saved many of the airport stores from closings and layoffs, although many employees have had their hours cut back. 
By most accounts, retailers are taking a harder hit than airlines, at least in percentage terms. Passenger loads are down at least 20 percent at most airports, but retail sales are off 40 percent in some places.
Lost sales and forgiven rents are two reasons that airports have been hemorrhaging money lately, and there are others -- parking lots are half empty, payments for landing fees are down, and, with fewer travelers, there is less revenue from the passenger facility charge, the $3 or so that many airports tack on to airline tickets to pay for improvements. The surcharges they collect on car rentals are down, too.
"From the survey work we've done, we think airports will lose $2 billion to $3 billion in revenue over the course of the next year," said Todd Hauptli, a spokesman for the American Association of Airport Executives and the Airports Council International. Total revenue for all United States commercial airports was about $12.3 billion last year. In addition, his group estimates that airports will spend about $1 billion in the next year for new security equipment and extra security personnel.
All of this means that airports eventually will have to make big changes or get big subsidies. "Some airports are going to turn around and charge costs back to their major tenants, the carriers, but it's a pretty open question about the ability of carriers to meet those costs," Mr. Hauptli said.
There is an ultimate source of funds, though. "In the end, in air transportation, everything ultimately goes back to the passenger," he said. "That's how we fund the system." That could mean new surcharges or higher fares. It has not happened yet, but travelers already can notice changes.
One is in the nature of goods for sale. At the Brookstone store at Reagan Airport one afternoon recently, the manager, Dennis McNeil, leaned his elbows on the back of a big leather massage chair, a Brookstone staple, and played with a new item, a hand-held Tetris computer game. Mr. McNeil pointed to a display of similar games, including chess and backgammon, which he said had replaced barbecue forks and similar sharp objects. Most of the shopping at National is outside the secure areas, but a passenger who bought something that is now contraband would not be able to carry it onto the plane, so the store has stopped selling such items. Sewing kits and scissors are also out. But a suitcase with casters with a separate pocket for a laptop is selling well, Mr. McNeil said, because of the new limit on carry-ons.
Merchants at Reagan have been especially hard hit because the airport was closed for more than three weeks after Sept. 11, until new security arrangements could be established. Now, people who use Reagan Airport, directly across the Potomac River from the heart of the District of Columbia, argue that it is the safest airport in the country. But with the airlines' strictly limiting the number of carry-ons, people are less apt to shop. And in contrast to the casual past, hardly anyone who has made it through the security checkpoint comes out again to the main shopping area.
The electronic games, $15 to $30 each, are selling well, though. "People have been getting here two hours early, checking in in five minutes, and have to have something to do," Mr. McNeil said.
Reagan Airport lost $400,000 a day for the three weeks it was closed and is still losing substantial revenues, said Tara Hamilton, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, which also operates Dulles. Even before Sept. 11, traffic was down because high-tech businesses, a big factor in northern Virginia, were in financial trouble, she said. 
But before Sept. 11, the airport dispatched about 5,000 taxis a day, she said; now it is a little over half that.
Even upscale retailers are feeling the pinch, particularly with the absence of the "meeters and greeters," who are no longer allowed past security. 
In fact, around the country, gleaming new terminals, some of which look like shopping malls that happen to have boarding gates nearby, now seem to belong to another era. "After Sept. 11, the security footprint isn't quite matching the shoe," said Paul P. Bollinger Jr., a vice president at HNTB, an architecture, planning and engineering company in Alexandria, Va., that does work for airports around the country.
In December 2000, San Francisco International opened a 2.5-million-square-foot terminal with great fanfare. On Aug. 20 of this year, a press release boasted of the airport's "one-of-a-kind culinary, cultural and shopping experiences." Those still beckon, but many of them are open only to people with tickets; the meeters and greeters who come to see a passenger off or pick one up cannot get near many of the shops. And those who can get in often aren't buying, partly because of the uncertain economy. "People traveling today don't know whether they are going to have jobs next month," said Ron V. Wilson, an airport spokesman.
Retail rents at many airports are based on a percentage of sales, with minimum guarantees; San Francisco, like other airports, has reduced or waived guarantees. 
Some places are doing well. "One thing has spiked," Mr. Wilson said. "It's the booze part. Some people under normal circumstances can't get on an airplane unless they're half gassed. And now that is even accentuated." 
In fact, if people arrive early expecting a long line and instead face a short one, it gives them more time to drink, retail experts at various airports say. But that hasn't helped Personalities, a restaurant and bar outside the checkpoint for Gates 20 to 36 in San Francisco, which handle domestic flights. One noontime recently, 200 stood right in front of the bar -- all waiting to go through security. The bar was empty. Tai Yung Liang, the full-time bartender, has had his hours cut back to 30.
Pittsburgh International Airport was clearly designed for peacetime use, with a shopping mall in the center and concourses radiating out in four directions, all of it inside the secure area. At the Eckerd drugstore, the manager said she had had a visit from the F.A.A. and the company that manages retailing in the airport, who ordered her to remove all razor blades, tweezers, nail clippers and even eyeglass-repair kits from the shelves.
"They even confiscated our case cutters and scissors for personal use," said the manager, who would not give her name. She gets periodic visits from the F.A.A. to assure she has not restocked, she said. The store appeared to be busy on a recent visit, but traffic through the airport is down, and merchants say that sales are down at least in proportion to traffic. 
But in Pittsburgh, as elsewhere, the airport bookstore reports brisk sales of new titles like "Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America," and "Target U.S.A.: The Inside Story of the New Terrorist War."
At the Au Bon Pain inside the security perimeter in Pittsburgh, Linda Kuhni, the general manager, said that because her knives had been taken away, she could no longer guarantee a visually appealing sandwich. On the other hand, her sales are up because airlines have reduced food service on board. "Not feeding them on the plane is helping my business," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Panda pileup at National Geographic store, Reagan Airport. Paradies gifts, Pittsburgh Airport. It feels like Monday at T.G.I. Friday's, Reagan Airport. (Susana Raab for The New York Times; Gary Tramontina for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (98%); CALENDARS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (79%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (79%); FAST FOOD (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); GOLF (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TERRORISM (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AIRPORTS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



645 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report; 
Airlines Are Cutting Their Discount Services

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
When the airlines reduced their flight schedules by as much as 25 percent after the Sept. 11 attacks, they also cut discount flight operations and the favorite perk of very frequent fliers, the free upgrade to first class. The first major sign that low fares will be less available came in late September when United and US Airways said they would shut down their discount operations. 
United, the larger of the two, began shutting down its United Shuttle, which operated in the West using Boeing 737 jets with all-coach service and flew about 468 flights daily, a fifth of United's schedule. 
US Airways said that by December it would close down MetroJet, which began in June 1998 with flights from Baltimore-Washington in Linthicum, Md., using older Boeing 737-200's. MetroJet had grown to about 180 daily flights. 
Delta, the only other airline with a discount brand in addition to its mainline service, halved its Delta Express operations between 5 Florida cities and 15 airports spread from the East Coast to Kansas City, Mo. 
United Shuttle, MetroJet and Delta Express were created to compete against Southwest, the discount airline based in Dallas that has been bringing intense competition to many East Coast markets since 1993, when it started flying to Baltimore-Washington Airport. 
"These discount brands were innovative responses to Southwest," said Kevin Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, an advocacy group that seeks lower fares and better service on behalf of major corporations. "Losing United Shuttle and MetroJet is bad for travelers in general and means a big step backward in terms of competition.
"The cuts mean less competition, or no competition, on some routes," he said. US Airways, which has the industry's highest cost per seat-mile, did not just close MetroJet; it radically reduced all flights at Baltimore-Washington, yielding in its battle with Southwest, which has the lowest cost per seat-mile among major domestic airlines. 
The presence of low-fare carriers like Southwest and jetBlue, while a boon to those using their routes, is not a free lunch. Comparing international service at Baltimore-Washington with Dulles, where United dominates and where jetBlue is trying to make inroads, provides an example of the effects on air travel of discount versus mainline carriers. High-fare Dulles offers service to 21 foreign airports, as opposed to 8 at low-fare Baltimore-Washington. 
Passengers are also finding that the airlines are replacing many Boeing 737 and Airbus A-320 single-aisle jets with smaller, regional jets or even with turboprops, which usually fly at less than 15,000 feet, where the ride is often bumpy. 
When Boeing and Airbus jets are withdrawn, road warriors lose their favorite perk: the upgrade to first class. The smaller planes have just one grade of service, and on most of the regional jets and turboprops the seats are narrower and less comfortable than coach seats on larger planes. 
And these regional jets and turboprops are replacing jet service in a number of cities. US Airways, for example, cut weekday service between La Guardia Airport and Rochester from four mainline jets, one junior, or regional, jet and three turboprops to just three flights, on two turboprops and one junior jet. It has since added back one large jet on the run. 
United is replacing Boeing 737's on flights from Los Angeles to Oakland, Phoenix and Tucson, for example, with 50-seat Canadair Regional Jets. 
In late September Delta announced a major shift in its route structure that will mean that far more passengers flying to its hubs in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth and Salt Lake City will fly on junior jets instead of mainline jets. 
The major carriers are switching to the junior jets as fast as their contracts with pilots -- and the production lines at the makers of regional jets -- will allow. Jamie Baker, the regional-airlines analyst at the UBS Warburg investment house, said that their share of the airline market is sure to rise because they can operate a regional jet for about half as much per hour as the Boeing and Airbus jets that they replace. 
The shift to smaller planes with only coach service makes sense given a drop of more than one-third in demand for air travel, said Clifford Winston, a transportation economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
 "The consistent issue for the airline business is matching capacity to demand," he said. Airplanes must be ordered years in advance, and when demand exceeds capacity, the airlines can charge top dollar and many people have to fit into middle seats. But when demand drops suddenly, as it did after Sept. 11, the airlines must park planes and fire workers and shift to smaller planes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); TERRORISM (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (72%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (84%); AIRBUS SAS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; US AIRWAYS; DELTA AIR LINES INC 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%)

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



646 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
When the 'Art Film' Label Is Deadly

BYLINE:  By STUART KLAWANS; Stuart Klawans is the film critic of The Nation. A collection of his reviews and essays, "Left in the Dark," will be published in January by Nation Books.

 BODY:
THE distinguished Italian writer and director Gianni Amelio has posed any number of riddles in "The Way We Laughed," not least of which is this: how do you get four elephants into a Fiat? I promise an answer before this article is done. First, though, I must ask a question of my own, since "The Way We Laughed" is finally opening in New York on Wednesday. Why did it take three years for this wonderful film to get here from Italy?
 To appreciate the complexity of the puzzle, you should know that Mr. Amelio earned a high reputation in the 1990's -- and mounting success at the international box office -- with "Open Doors," "Stolen Children" and "Lamerica." He then took the top prize at the 1998 Venice Film Festival with "The Way We Laughed," his third picture to star the lanky and resourceful Enrico Lo Verso, who is Sicily's answer to Jeff Goldblum. 
 In the role of a southern Italian laborer who moves to Turin in the 1950's -- a man like thousands of others entering a newly industrial economy -- Mr. Lo Verso turned in a performance of quirky, unsettling intensity, which Mr. Amelio and his cinematographer, Luca Bigazzi, captured in gorgeous, deep-colored images. The storytelling was ingenious; the characters were subtly drawn and engrossing. As for the theme -- the moral costs of prosperity -- "The Way We Laughed" ("Cosi Ridevano") proved to be all too timely. It revisited the beginnings of the 60's economic boom, just as the high times of the 90's were about to end.
"I'm sure this is my best work till now," Mr. Amelio said of the film recently, communicating by e-mail from his home in Rome. Although he, too, was born in the south -- Calabria -- and moved to Turin in his youth, the 56-year-old Mr. Amelio has avoided autobiography in "The Way We Laughed." Even so, an undercurrent of strong personal feeling runs through the picture. "It moves me more than my other films," he said.
Yet despite having all this in its favor, "The Way We Laughed" languished without United States distribution. When the American Museum of the Moving Image in Queens asked a critics' group last year to help choose a series of the most neglected movies of the 1990's, this writer did not hesitate to name "The Way We Laughed," both for itself and for the situation it represents. Imagine the problems faced by foreign films with lesser pedigrees. Why did this movie have so much trouble reaching our screens? What do its difficulties tell us about the fortunes of international cinema and about ourselves as an audience?
The answers start with the irony of success.
"The Way We Laughed" had the misfortune of being introduced at the 55th Venice festival, which was, like the previous 54, an occasion for Italy to show off its cultural products. By 1998, though, with Italian film in sharp commercial decline, proclamations of its "rebirth" gave off a hollow, grating sound to visiting journalists, especially those who'd taken to grousing against the festival circuit as such. Some influential writers, dismayed at the chasm between art cinema and popular movies, had begun to accuse festivals of promoting willfully unpopular films, made by self-validating auteurs who were addicted to government subsidies. In the eyes of these critics, the Venice festival was now guilty not just of drum-beating but of "cultural protectionism."
When, through no fault of its own, "The Way We Laughed" won the Golden Lion, it, too, became guilty, by association. Critics on the Lido spoke darkly of back-room deals and fixes. The festival's director, Felice Laudadio, might have responded by supporting his nine-member jury, only one of whom was Italian, or by pointing out that this "art film" had been produced by a media baron, Vittorio Cecchi Gori. Instead, Mr. Laudadio chose that moment to resign from the festival, declaring on his way out that prize-giving is "stupid."
Considering what had happened to Gianni Amelio, Mr. Laudadio could have skipped his proposal for abolishing the Golden Lion. Just rename it. How about the Exploding Cigar?
That Mr. Amelio had wound up with a faceful of ash may be seen from the press reports. Italian critics at first derided the notion that Mr. Amelio should be made a standard-bearer for their national cinema and then, in the next breath, complained that he hadn't raised the flag high enough. "Amelio's film met with a barrage of hostile criticism," Silvana Silvestri wrote recently in the English journal the New Left Review. Ms. Silvestri, a reviewer for the Rome newspaper Il Manifesto, maintains that the film gave offense by recalling "the world of poverty from which we have come -- a period in our past relegated by an entire nation to a kind of collective amnesia."
"The Way We Laughed" does not deliver what is now the conventional account of southern immigration to the north -- a story about quasi-exotic peasants who suffer tragically but are full of life. Instead, the film dramatizes the normal but none-too-pretty business of acquiring wealth and becoming middle class. Although set in the past, the film is really about today's audiences and how they have come to be sitting in those red plush seats.
"Now we are rich -- and arrogant -- without any memory of our past, of illness and poverty," Mr. Amelio says. "How much have we paid to achieve our affluence? Is it possible that in searching for material comfort we have lost something -- humanity, bravery, civic valor?" Because "The Way We Laughed" asks such questions, it is "not a comfortable movie," he says. "There's nothing nostalgic, sweet, exotic or rhetorical in it. It's maybe pitiless even in its most moving moments." It's also so strenuously honest as to have its characters speak in dialect. That was another reason the film caused a scandal in Italy: audiences had to read subtitles, in effect to understand themselves.
Some American critics had a separate set of objections. Writing from the Venice festival in Variety, the publication that most strongly influences potential United States distributors, David Rooney repeated the rumors of a jury fix, while heaping scorn on "The Way We Laughed" for being slow, confusing and opaque. (I would describe it as stately, intricate and nuanced.) These traits, of course, are markers of the suspect "art film." What Mr. Rooney and many others wanted instead -- what they'd been demanding since 1994 -- was a European "Pulp Fiction": something quick, sexy and violent, with big, cartoonish characters, a hip soundtrack and just enough foreign flavor to seem chic to Americans. That's what the 1998 Venice festival delivered with "Run Lola Run," a picture that Mr. Rooney praised as highly as he put down "The Way We Laughed."
So here was Mr. Amelio's dilemma: he hadn't made the hot new thing, nor had he faithfully imitated the classics. (True, he evoked Luchino Visconti's 1960 film, "Rocco and His Brothers," but only to mark the route from which he'd diverged.) The first audiences sat before the screen as if waiting for a different movie to appear. But for those who were willing to look, there were marvels on view, chief among them the devastatingly tangled relationship at the film's heart.
The illiterate Giovanni (Mr. Lo Verso) comes to Turin one day in 1958 to visit his schoolboy-brother Pietro (Francesco Giuffrida), the deeply beloved younger child, the hope of the family, the protected one. Some love, some hope, some protection. When we first see Pietro, he's already half-suffocated beneath the weight of Giovanni's self-sacrifice. (The aggression becomes visible when the brothers embrace: Mr. Lo Verso is so much bigger than Mr. Giuffrida, both physically and as an actor.) When Giovanni decides to remain in Turin -- purely for Pietro's sake, of course -- the boy's breathing room collapses altogether.
In developing this relationship, Mr. Amelio creates just the right time and space for the characters. You're given leisure to discover on your own the fragility beneath Pietro's nasty surface, the ice within Giovanni's generosity. As for space: Mr. Amelio's fluid, wide-screen compositions are a sustained essay in how to integrate figures with their world.
Here is a beautiful yet self-effacing style, put at the service of an emotional content that is wholly accessible. (How many millions of us have experienced family love as an unpayable debt, or education as the pressure to make good at any cost?) Yet, at the same time, "The Way We Laughed" is as studied as a movie can be. Film history references abound. (Decode as many as you like.) Social critique comes across with diagrammatic clarity. The film's structure -- which divides the story into six discrete chapters -- is the work of a teasing mathematician.
In short, those who want an art cinema with a populist heart -- or a popular cinema with brains -- need look no further than "The Way We Laughed." It turns out to have been the "Purloined Letter" of the Venice festival: the sought-after item that was so prominent, it was ignored.
Then, early in 2000, Dan Talbot of New Yorker Films took a second look at "The Way We Laughed" after its screening at the American Museum of the Moving Image. Mr. Talbot had long been a supporter of Gianni Amelio's work, and he now revised his judgment. "The financial aspects began to look more manageable," he explains.
By this time, other people as well were rethinking "The Way We Laughed." "Three famous Italian critics sent me a letter after their second viewing," Mr. Amelio says, "telling me they had changed their opinion for the better." The videocassette release in Italy has been successful, he adds, and the home-video distributor predicts that the DVD will also do well.
So the story may turn out to have a happy ending -- provided, of course, you don't think about all the other worthwhile films that go begging for an American audience. The structural problems of foreign-film distribution, which doomed "The Way We Laughed" in advance as an art film, have not improved since 1998. Still, in a world where good news is in short supply, we might as well be glad for "The Way We Laughed."
Mr. Talbot has added a grand new item to his company roster of Gianni Amelio's films, which already included "Open Doors" and "Lamerica." Mr. Giuffrida has gone on from his teenage debut to become a busy and well-regarded actor. Mr. Lo Verso, too, has been working, even playing a small role in "Hannibal." (I'm sure the check came in handy.) And over the past two years, Mr. Amelio has made documentaries, directed radio plays and written a script about a young couple with a disturbed son. "This will be my next movie, I hope," he says, "with shooting to begin in March 2002."
That accounts for everyone but the elephants.
It is now time to consider why, at both the beginning and end of "The Way We Laughed," characters ask how you can get four elephants into a Fiat. The answer has to do with the film's title, which was also the name of a feature in the magazine Domenica del Corriere. To illustrate how much society had changed in only a few years, people would write in with mossy jokes, which to their present amazement they had once thought funny. So now you know: two in the front, two in the back.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enrico Lo Verso, left rear, and Francesco Giuffrida, right, in Gianni Amelio's "Way We Laughed." (New Yorker Films)(pg. 15); The actor Enrico Lo Verso, left, with the director Gianni Amelio. (New Yorker Films)(pg. 25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); FILM GENRES (70%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (70%); FESTIVALS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



647 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
A Certain Look The Camera Sold

BYLINE:  By VICKI GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
IN the 1920's, technology and business boomed in America. Production, media and advertising all gave new meaning to the word "mass." A complete Model T Ford rolled off the line every 24 seconds. Movie attendance climbed from 60 million in 1927 to 90 million in 1930. Magazines, newspapers and radio reached unprecedented audiences; so did fashion. Both mass and elite publications covered haute couture extensively, while the manufacture of ready-made clothing leaped ahead. Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, locked in a duel, both surged in circulation.
 It was possible to produce much more than people needed, so they had to be convinced to consume more. Photography, itself a medium quite at home with mass production, was called into service. By the end of the 1920's, photographs had begun to replace engraved fashion and advertising illustrations, making the camera a major purveyor of consumer goods and styles. At the same time, both fashion and celebrity were becoming conspicuous mass-market commodities, a situation to which photography had already contributed heavily. 
 Two men, George Hoyningen-Huene (1900-68) and Horst P. Horst (1906-99), figured prominently in this enterprise from the end of the 1920's. The Museum of Fine Arts here is currently honoring both in "The Look: Images of Glamour and Style, Photographs by Horst and Hoyningen-Huene" (through Jan. 6). This show, elegant in content and installation, is enormous: more than 70 pictures by Huene (as he was commonly known), more than 170 by Horst, plus some 20 photographs by other fashion photographers -- the two H's influenced almost everyone -- and a few items of furniture, decorative objects and clothing of the time. The section devoted to Horst is an expansion of a show of his portraits at the National Portrait Gallery in London; the Boston show was organized by Anne Havinga, the museum's curator of photographs.
Huene (pronounced HEW-neh) worked for Vogue and Harper's Bazaar but gave up fashion photography after World War II, which he thought had destroyed elegance. Later, he acted as an adviser on Hollywood films. Horst photographed first for French, then for American Vogue from 1931 to 1991. Huene was his mentor, briefly his lover, and his lifelong friend.
Knowing what this show was about, I wore my best Balenciaga to the museum and got a new perm, but nothing was any use. The technical mastery of both photographers, their crisp and inventive designs and exquisite control of every detail of light and shadow, gesture and fold, took beauty and glamour to the nth degree. (Each had worked in art or design before taking up photography.) The pictures of men alone could make a woman feel like a frump. Huene, who was a baron and had a well-deserved reputation for arrogance, was slender, tailored within an inch of his life, adept with a cigarette and practiced at posing among the geometrical constructions of the time. Horst seen through Huene's eyes had the body of a young god in an Art Moderne context, and he may have posed for Huene's well-known picture of a couple in bathing suits on a diving board, which was actually a box on a Paris roof.
Even Cecil Beaton, got up as Elinor Glyn for a costume ball, was more ineffably chic than I, despite his slightly witchy makeup. Of course, Beaton had only to stand still, faultlessly arranged before an admiring lens, whereas I was traipsing about with plenty of temporary and permanent faults. But fashion pictures of every kind from most of the history of fashion photography have been laced with a soupcon of humiliation and a large pinch of hope (no, you don't look like that; buy the dress).
Huene's numerous pictures of fashionable women elaborately costumed for masquerade balls in the 1930's create the suspicion that society was indulging its most luxurious fantasies in an effort to ignore a looming conflagration. Really pricey couture continues to carry a whiff of the same, flaunting economic security, dominant status and often exotic flights of fancy. Of course, masquerade did not vanished with the 1930's. In a 1991 picture by Herb Ritts in this show, Madonna is disguised as an 18th-century extravaganza, her skirt extended from the hips like a knickknack shelf, her wig like a wave from "The Perfect Storm."
Huene's photographs have a contemplative air and are determinedly classicizing. Some have background images of Greek heads blown up to colossal size. He enshrined stasis as if it were a virtue, though it was closer to necessity: the view camera could not stop motion. He got around this by posing models lying down and seen from above, arranged like classical dancers with gowns wafting out on the breeze. Horst was inclined to more elaborate settings and a more dramatic sense of contrast combined with a more pronounced sensuality. He could flirt with Surrealism -- Dali occasionally collaborated -- and with wit, as when four full-size beautiful women check out a man reduced to the height of a toy.
Fashion photography in the 1920's and 1930's was largely confined to the studio; Huene and Horst exemplified the pristine formality at its heart. At the end of World War II, Conde Nast decreed that fashion photography should be more "natural," which meant more movement, more outdoor work, more location shots. Horst was never as comfortable outside as in his hothouse studio environment, but he continued to work, and his contrived and ceremonial, refined, aristocratic and highly designed style had a revival in the 1980's.
Most of the portraits by both Huene and Horst are just as explicit statements of style as their fashion photographs are. In fact, portraits and fashion photographs often were (and often still are) the same. Society women and European aristocracy were the first models; it was not till the late 1930's that Horst promoted the use of professional models with greater posing skills. In the high-end fashion magazines, they all managed to look wondrously and reassuringly wealthy while the Depression played out on the street.
Huene turned a full-length portrait of Baron de Meyer, the fashion photographer whose soft-focus compositions were superseded by Edward Steichen's graphic boldness in the 1920's, into an exercise in Art Deco design. Horst set the Princess Marina, dressed in a gown that flowed more rhythmically than the Danube, in front of a column and a painting by Veronese, bestowing on her the somber grandeur of a work of art.
Marlene Dietrich leaned over the back of a chair for Horst, her arms on either side of an image of a classical male nude on the chair back. Through the magic of Horst's lights, her face seemed to glow from within, its slow curves set off by the pointed black halo of her hat and the angular shapes of her black suit. 
Huene and Horst, like fashion photographers and celebrity photographers generally, were boosters. They cleverly, gorgeously boosted both clothing and people into an empyrean of endless beauty, desirability, perfection or renown. The women (and some men) in their pictures were essentially manufactured and collectible objects, impeccably designed. Some were social constructs, some devised by the fashion industry, some the product of cinema or publicity machines, all refabricated as Images by the camera. Many of those Images were meant to inspire consuming passions, and, by George, they worked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Izod Bathing Suits," 1930, by George Hoyningen-Huene, is on view in Boston. (Courtesy Conde Nast Archive/Museum of Fine Arts, Boston) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (76%); READY TO WEAR (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); PAINTING (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%) PHOTOGRAPHY; APPAREL; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (BOSTON, MASS) 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, VICKI; HOYNINGEN-HUENE, GEORGE (1900-68); HORST, HORST P (1906-99) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



648 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION; 
The Spin War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Television, Like the Country, Loses Its Footing" by Caryn James Nov. 4 :
Television has not shown any actual, mangled, dead bodies of the victims of the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. 
I don't recall seeing one (and I am sure I would have remembered it).
 This is to be expected, you may say, and thank heavens for it. But wait. People in the entire world see buildings burning and falling down -- buildings that symbolize American economic and military power. This is entirely too abstract when close-up images of destroyed individual people in Afghanistan are distributed. As a result, the image war is spun in our opposition's behalf, for they do not have the hesitancy of good taste and decorum and respect for the families of the victims that we do. In this sense, television is failing us.

JOSEPH NECHVATAL
Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (87%); TERRORISM (72%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TELEVISION 

PERSON: NECHVATAL, JOSEPH; JAMES, CARYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK CITY; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



649 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Must Now Campaign for Real Power 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE 

 BODY:
EDDIE PEREZ, the newly elected mayor of Hartford, the first Latino mayor of a capitol city in New England, campaigned for and won an office that hardly exists. By city charter, the office is more ceremonial than substantive, but Mr. Perez, a child of welfare, the first high school graduate in his family, the first college graduate in his universe, has never let what is, determine what will be.
 Charter reform will be his most important priority when he takes office Dec. 4 because the city needs a strong mayor form of government, he said. Although city residents voted on Nov. 6 to increase the mayor's salary from $30,000 to $75,000, they defeated a charter change last spring to install a strong mayor government. If it passes in November 2002, Mr. Perez will already be halfway through his term in a city where statistics are grim. 
 Hartford is the poorest city in the state, with 28 percent of its residents living below the poverty line, according to statistics from the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. 
Eleven of the state's 28 worst performing schools are in Hartford; in 1997 the state took over its board of education. Its population has decreased by 13 percent from 1999 to 2000. This year crime is down 4.1 percent, but 2000 saw an increase of 9.8 percent.
Perhaps only a man who lived it, coming of age on Bellevue Street in the city's scrappy north end, saved by the urban safety net of a loving mother, a few reliable neighbors and committed parish priests to graduate from its most prestigious college, can grasp both the difficulty and possibility of change.
"I've traveled the continuum, and I've learned there's something constant about the human spirit," Mr. Perez said, as he sat in the living room of his house, a blue colonial on Bloomfield Avenue, not far from the University of Hartford.
It was a Saturday morning and although Mr. Perez is nursing a cold, if he weren't attending the Veteran's Day Parade in another hour, he might be repairing a driveway or lingering over breakfast with his wife, Maria, and his daughter, Sierra, a freshman at Bulkeley High School. His son, Eddie Jr., is a senior at the University of Connecticut.
Right now Mr. Perez has little time to relax. A charter reform committee will be established shortly after he takes office, he said. Its report will be due in April to begin a six-month public education campaign in time for the November 2002 referendum question.
Mr. Perez, a Democrat, was elected with the help of $200,000 from many of the city's largest corporations and the support of its Democratic party. Four new Democratic councilors won election this year and each one has publicly stated he will support a charter change.
His administration will focus primarily on three areas: housing, where Mr. Perez said he wanted to add at least 500 new owner-occupied units to the city; public safety, preventing rather than reacting to crime by adding 40 to 50 new police officers, and building and repairing schools. He recently told The Hartford Courant that Adrian's Landing, the $1 billion downtown revitalization project, won't prevent him from seeking as much state and federal money as he can to accomplish these goals.
Mr. Perez, 43, is president of the Southside Institutions Neighborhood Alliance, a housing program that bought up decrepit homes using grant money, tore them down and built new ones, offering low-income loans to the working poor in the city. Public safety is a top priority of his constituents, as are schools.
Mr. Perez said he believed schools have to be the center of the community, with room for adult education and youth recreation programs. He will work with the superintendent of schools, the State Board of Trustees, and the business community to help insure jobs for high school graduates. What Mr. Perez won't do, he said, is spend a lot of time pointing out who is right and wrong.
"My responsibility is making the system just and efficient," he said.
Mr. Perez moved to Brooklyn from Puerto Rico when he was 9. He was 14 when he moved to Hartford. He is the second oldest of nine children in a household headed by his mother, who spoke only Spanish. Mr. Perez said he translated for her at the welfare office or at school conferences. The neighborhood was the center of his world. "I never felt poor," he said. "When I played stickball on the street, I thought I'd be in the major leagues someday." 
As a high school student who enjoyed the sciences, he guessed he would be a lab technician at a local hospital. For a time, he was a member of a street gang, but in the early 1970's a priest at Sacred Heart Church persuaded him to join a youth group and introduced him to the concept of social justice.
Father Thomas Goekler took a group of neighborhood teenagers to protest in Groton at the nuclear submarine base and to North Carolina to rally for the Wilmington 10, protesters who had been jailed. Another priest, Father Peter Rosazza, now Bishop Rosazza, whom Mr. Perez called "the poor people's priest," who made his rounds on a bicycle, taught him to remember the neighborhood.
Ultimately, Mr. Perez made his name in the neighborhood, working in the Stowe Village Housing Project on welfare-to-work programs before founding a neighborhood organization for housing and employment advocacy.
A summer job at Trinity College, Upward Bound, a federally financed program to help minority students go to college, began his relationship with Trinity, but it wasn't until he was 29, when he and his wife, Maria, had a boy, 13, and daughter, 2, that he decided to finish what he had started at a local community college and enroll at Trinity, taking courses part time before graduating in 1996 with a degree in economics.
It was at Trinity, where he was first the assistant to then president Tom Gerety and later Evan S. Dobelle, where Mr. Perez saw what could be accomplished with the resources of influence and money. Trinity, an elite college, sits in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. 
"Trinity is a microcosm of Hartford and of most of America," Mr. Perez said. "It is an elitist institution set in a neighborhood that had third world problems."
Mr. Perez was introduced at university cocktail parties as the "right-hand man" of Mr. Dobelle because he had an ability to get things done and knew how to work with the neighbors as the college grappled with problems of campus safety and plans to expand despite disgruntled neighbors. Last year, Trinity, using money from the state private and corporate donations, completed the Learning Corridor, a complex of four public schools that is the jewel in the crown of its neighborhood revitalization effort. Mr. Perez was in charge of creating more owner-occupied housing in the neighborhoods that surround it. He made his name accomplishing the task.
Today, city residents eye him expectantly. Their neighborhoods differ, but their goals remain the same: homes that are safe and clean, good schools and a responsive City Hall.
Mr. Perez recalled a recent afternoon during his campaign when he was exhausted and had been knocking on doors for four hours. A little girl, maybe 3 years old, answered the front door, and he asked if her mother was home.
"She turned and called up the stairs, 'Mama! Es el alcalde!' (It's the mayor.) That really motivated me. If this tiny kid knew who I was, I thought, maybe she'll think she can grow up to be the mayor. Maybe she'll even believe she can grow up to be the president."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Perez, who was just elected mayor of Hartford, greeting a resident of a housing complex for the elderly. (Steve Miller for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); POVERTY RATES (68%); POLITICS (62%) REFERENDUMS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS 

PERSON: PEREZ, EDDIE; STOWE, STACEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



650 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Your Home; 
For Co-ops And Condos, Rising Costs

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
AT this time of year co-op and condominium boards meet with property managers, accountants and real estate specialists to figure out how much money they are going to need next year. And the experts are saying that the answer is likely to be more, maybe a lot more, than this year.
 Among the items that they say are expected to be responsible for the increase are insurance, property taxes and the salaries of building employees. 
 "In this market, the cost of insurance is increasing every day," said Carla Vel, co-president and chief executive officer of the Distinguished Programs Group, a Manhattan company that develops insurance programs for commercial and residential buildings. "And it's not just the increased premiums that are causing a problem, it's that it's becoming more difficult to buy all the coverage you need." 
Ms. Vel said that since about last December, property and casualty insurance premiums in the city had been "firming up" -- in other words, rates had been slowly increasing. After the attack on the World Trade Center, the trend has "fast-forwarded," she said, to a point where rates are now undergoing a "major firming" and some buildings could soon see their insurance premiums double. "Just a couple of weeks ago I would have said that increases would range anywhere from 30 to 100 percent," Ms. Vel said. "But now, even the 30 percent figure seems too low."
Robert E. Mackoul, president of Mackoul & Associates, an insurance broker in Long Beach on Long Island, said he believed that premiums for buildings that are considered poor risks could increase even more -- by as much as 300 percent.
"What we're seeing right now is just the beginning of the effects of Sept. 11," he said, referring to the stunning losses insurance carriers, and the reinsurance companies that insure them, have experienced as a result of the World Trade Center disaster. "The whole thing hasn't fully played out yet, and no one has a crystal ball to tell us where this is going. We could really be in a crisis situation by early next year."
Mr. Mackoul said that in New York, insurance companies licensed by the state must send out notices to customers if rates are going to increase by more than 10 percent. "And we're seeing a lot of those notices going out," he said. He added that in addition to charging higher rates for insurance, companies can use other methods to increase premiums. For example, he said, insurance carriers frequently offer good customers credits, or discounts, that result in the customers paying somewhat less. By eliminating or reducing the credits, Mr. Mackoul said, the carrier can charge more without increasing the rate.
Another way an insurance company can get more without raising rates, he said, is to require increased coverage. Since many policies are written on a replacement-cost basis, meaning that the company will pay whatever it costs to replace the entire building in the event of a catastrophe, the company can reassess that cost and demand an appropriate amount of coverage if the existing coverage is not considered sufficient.
"If a carrier takes away your credits and demands increases in the building's coverage, it can get 25 percent or more in additional premiums without even raising the basic rate," he said. 
One way an insurance company can charge more while providing the same amount of coverage is to change the customer's rating basis. If a carrier reclassifies a customer from a super-preferred tier to a preferred or a standard tier -- classifications established by the insurance companies that are based on the age and condition of the building -- a higher rate can be charged, Mr. Mackoul said. 
"That can be a huge difference," he said, because the difference between a super-preferred and a standard tier can represent a premium increase of 30 percent or more.
Finally, Mr. Mackoul said, in some cases buildings previously considered moderate risks -- those that have not filed an unusually high number of claims -- are now considered poor risks, because of the changing economy. And in some cases, he said, the carriers are simply declining to renew policies when they expire. "Insurance companies are doing whatever they can to increase income and decrease claims," Mr. Mackoul said. "And buildings that may have been considered acceptable risks when the economy was thriving may not be considered acceptable risks now." And now, he said, "is not the time to be out there looking for a new carrier." 
He added that while it is always possible for a building to get insurance, doing so can be quite expensive. "There will always be replacement carriers out there," he said. "But the premium increases are going to be enormous."
Matthew Newman, a senior vice president of Maxwell-Kates, a property management company in Manhattan, said that buildings that are well maintained and have the correct amount of replacement-cost coverage can expect increases of as much as 45 percent, while those that do not now have adequate coverage could see increases of 100 percent.
Another item next year's budget will have to address, the specialists say, is property taxes.
Mr. Newman said that given the enormous financial burdens New York City faces as a result of the Sept. 11 attack, property managers and financial experts are bracing for higher property taxes next year. And even if the actual tax rate does not increase, he said, the experts are preparing for higher tax bills as a result of increases in assessed valuations on their buildings. "We're expecting an increase of anywhere from 6 to 8 percent in the assessed valuation of our buildings," Mr. Newman said, referring to the requirement under state law that the assessment of every building must be re-evaluated at the beginning of each year. 
And while increases in assessments are phased in over five years, with one-fifth of the additional amount added each year, the result, Mr. Newman said, will likely be higher taxes for the tax year that runs from July 1, 2002, to June 30, 2003.
Abe Kleiman, a certified public accountant in Manhattan who specializes in co-ops and condominiums, said that his firm has been projecting tax increases of 5 to 7 percent, a range that takes into consideration both the additional taxes that may be due as a result of increases in assessments next year and increases already being phased in from previous years.
Mr. Kleiman said that another budget item that will likely increase next year is the building's payroll.
"Just based on the current union contract, salaries of building personnel are going to increase by about 3 percent," he said, referring to the contract negotiated between owners of multifamily residences and Local 32B-32J of the Building Service Employees International Union.
In addition, Mr. Kleiman said, some buildings are considering hiring additional staff members.
"I've been to a couple of meetings in the past few weeks, and it seems that shareholders and boards are a lot more concerned about security issues," he said, adding that some of his clients are now considering hiring doormen 24 hours a day, seven days a week. And while such additional expenses may be relatively minor when viewed in relation to an entire building's budget, he said, "they all add up."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); REINSURANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%) HOUSING; FINANCES; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS; WAGES AND SALARIES; INSURANCE; PROPERTY TAXES; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



651 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Staten Island; 
New Hilton Hopes to Become Island's Meeting Place

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE Hilton Garden Inn on Staten Island has something that its counterparts in Manhattan lack -- outdoor space. The hotel, which opened on Sept. 15, is situated on 23 acres of land, much of it near protected wetlands, in the Bloomfield section of the western part of Staten Island.
 Much of the surrounding land has been developed as gardens, complete with original sculptures, walkways, waterfalls, gazebos and ponds with decorative koi fish. It is intended to be used for weddings and other social gatherings in good weather and as an attractive backdrop for the hotel during inclement times. 
 A hotel designed for Staten Island is different from one in Manhattan, said Richard Nicotra, co-chairman of the Nicotra Group, which built the hotel and the surrounding Corporate Park of Staten Island. His wife, Lois, is the company's other head. 
Because most visitors to New York City stay in Manhattan, the object there is to build as many guest rooms as the space will allow. But on Staten Island, a hotel is more of a place for social gatherings, like weddings and business meetings, and more of the emphasis at Hilton Garden Inn is on public spaces and less on guest rooms.
"We were convinced that there is more demand for conference and banquet space than there is for rooms," Mr. Nicotra said. "So we overbuilt the conference and banquet space and underbuilt the rooms."
The result is a building with an auditorium that can seat 1,000 people, five other meeting spaces with a total of 15,000 square feet and 148 guest rooms and suites. Sixty more guest rooms may be added on the uncompleted top two floors of the six-story building if demand warrants.
Tailoring a hotel to a local market makes a lot more sense than waiting for Manhattan to fill up and hoping to accommodate some of the overflow, observed Sean Hennessey, the director of the New York area hospitality practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. 
"That's what happened at the Marriott in downtown Brooklyn, which had a small number of rooms compared to its meeting space," Mr. Hennessey said. "They have had great success on the catering side of the house."
Because of the demand, the developer of the building that contains the Marriott as well as office and retail space, Joshua L. Muss, is seeking an agreement with city officials to add 280 guest rooms to the 376 in the existing structure. Mr. Muss said the centerpiece of the hotel was a banquet hall capable of seating 1,800 people, the fourth largest in the city.
Despite having a population of only 450,000, Staten Island is a free-standing market capable of supporting a hotel and meeting center with the Hilton brand, said John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting, a firm that specializes in hotels. "If one looks at Staten Island as a self-contained county, you note there is a lack of nationally branded hotel product," he said. "Staten Island is a vibrant community, and a hotel can be the focal point of a community."
However, Mr. Hennessey cautioned that just because a hotel is on Staten Island does not mean that it is not part of the New York market. "The challenge is that they may have Staten Island revenues but Manhattan costs," he said, because the property has to compete with hotels in Manhattan for personnel, particularly in management and culinary positions.
MR. NICOTRA said the rates for rooms at the hotel are $189 a night on weekdays and $169 a night on weekends, which is well below the pre-Sept. 11 average of more than $200 a night for hotels in Manhattan. 
But, he said, many of his hotel workers, including the top chefs, are residents of Staten Island and appreciate not having to make the commute to Manhattan. "People who live on Staten Island should not have to go to Manhattan to get good jobs," he said.
Mr. Nicotra is a native of Staten Island and a booster of the borough. He said that without the push by local residents willing to take on the financial risk of the project, national hotel chains would have continued to ignore the borough.
"We had this land and we spoke to Marriott and Hilton, but they didn't even want to take a look," he said. In the end Hilton was willing to sell him a franchise, he said, "and $35 million later here we are. No outsider would have done this. It took Staten Islanders who believed there are educated, classy people living here that will support something like this," he added.
Now, he said, Staten Island-based events can be held close to home. "There are almost half a million people on Staten Island, but until now, all the meetings and banquets went to New Jersey," he said.
Mr. Nicotra took something of a roundabout route to his current status as a hotelier. Indeed, it all began with yogurt. Starting in lower Manhattan, he built a chain of more than 200 Everything Yogurt stores, which have since been converted into Treat Street and Greenleaf's Grille restaurants.
He built his first office building at Corporate Park in 1992, partly to house his company, Restaurant Systems International, and partly on the speculation that other businesses on Staten Island would find Class A space desirable. "We built a 40,000-square-foot building and leased 10,000 square feet ourselves," he said.
The building did attract tenants, and Mr. Nicotra went on to build a total of 300,000 square feet of space in the 415-acre complex. In addition to the office space, he is building a shopping mall and is promoting another project that would be half office building and half another hotel.
"I'm building a village here," he said. When you own the village, you get to do things your way, such as naming a street in the park Lois Lane. And you can have an executive office that includes your wife and Lorenzo R. Nicotra, a 2 1/2-year-old Maltese dog. Lorenzo has his own business card, which lists him as chief executive dog. 
The new hotel he is planning in the complex would be strictly for lodging, without meeting space or food and beverage service other than a free breakfast, Mr. Nicotra said. The most likely brand is Hampton Inn, another Hilton Hotels Corporation property.
DEVELOPING the Hilton Garden Inn took almost five years from the time the Nicotra Group was designated by city economic development officials as the developer of a hotel until it opened on Sept. 15 -- appropriately, for a wedding.
The site of the corporate park was formerly partly occupied by a horse stable and an unofficial dump. "The whole area was a dumping ground before we got here," Mr. Nicotra said. "We took out over 5,000 tires and 50 burnt-out cars." He said his company worked with city officials to put up fencing to protect fragile wetlands and planted bushes and flowers on the median of South Avenue, which runs past the site, to improve the ambience of the area.
To capitalize on the hotel's relatively rural location in the city, there are large expanses of floor to ceiling windows in the main ballroom where people attending meetings can see the tranquillity of what appears to be a forest just outside.
"At night we light the trees," so the rural effect is not lost to darkness, Mr. Nicotra said. "We light them at 20 feet, 40 feet and 60 feet away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard and Lois Nicotra with Lorenzo, chief executive dog, at the new Hilton Garden Inn in Staten Island. (Mary DiBiase for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (84%); FISHES (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITIES (73%); WETLANDS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (66%); ACCOUNTING (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HILTON GARDEN INN (STATEN ISLAND); NICOTRA GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



652 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Characters Flounder in Tough Love and Denial in 'Country Girl'

BYLINE:  By ALVIN KLEIN 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
IN the mid-1930's, the name of Clifford Odets stood for social protest in the American theater.
 But by 1950, when he wrote "The Country Girl," now at Fleetwood Stage in New Rochelle, political idealism had been diverted by the profit motive. The specter of sentimentality diminished Odets's once-defining theme: the effects of materialistically induced stress on the spirit and soul of man. 
 More concerned with ego preservation than economic pressures, Odets shaped "The Country Girl" as a display piece for three major players who know precisely what the fight for the spotlight means, and he achieved the commercial hit he craved. But since the play is not the thing here -- it's rather more an accompaniment for three soloists -- it's a long shot for a small regional theater. Call it no win for Fleetwood Stage. 
No devotee of Odets will concede that he had forsaken the common man. But here that man was a somebody on a downward slide, being primed, pampered actually, to reclaim stardom, if he can "stay sober and learn lines." 
Frank Elgin, a fallen star, lands a general understudy's job, and that's only because Bernie Dodd, a rising star in the directorial ranks, remembers and cherishes Frank's glory days. Subtly, the play's real star turn falls to Georgie Elgin, Frank's downtrodden, maligned wife, trapped in a contest between the controlling, abrasive Bernie and her desperate husband. 
Will Frank, an unrecovering alcoholic who stashes away over-the-counter cough syrup (22 percent alcohol ) get it together or a triumphant comeback -- in the nick of time during a touch-and-go Broadway opening night after a disastrous Boston tryout?
Tune in next week, one is tempted to say.
With Bernie at war with Georgie, Frank battling his own demons and Georgie struggling to survive, Fleetwood Stage is set up for no contest. No one wins. 
Buzzwords like tough love and denial sum up Bernie and Georgie's persistence and Frank's resistance. But such short-cut paths to truth were a thing of the future in 1950. That makes it easier to embellish the stuff of soap opera with hifalutin themes like the rescue of one artist by another, the redemption of a fallen man through the love of a woman.
Given our psychologically enlightened age, it takes uncannily gifted actors to explore such self-sabataging characters, and divert us from their simplistic ways.
Yet the offstage explosions of Mr. Peters sound like out-of-control tantrums, not impassioned acting. How is one to know that Frank was -- still is -- a commanding actor who can create a character so indelibly that his performances are linked to legend. 
Poor Georgie is consigned to elevating self- abnegation and enslavement by love to an affecting level of human vulnerability and heights of superhuman sacrifice. At the mercy of unsightly costumes, to the discredit of the listed designer, Karl A. Ruckdeschel, Ellen David fails to provide character progression. Unwilling to play the victim, and rightly so, she has yet to find a compensatory alternative. 
It is important to believe in Bernie's memories, in his insistence on possibilities. Victor Barbella does not help us to believe that. More temperamental than passionate, his shifts seem caused by mood swings, not artistic temperament. The actor is playing a stock director-type whose gruff manner is no mask for dedication to theater art.
Fleetwood's actors cannot justify a star-driven play. Mr. Peters plays an overly indulged whiner with an adolescent mean streak, not even an interesting challenge or useful case study. Ms. David's Georgie suffers, by means of inflection, indication and gesture. What is on the inside, we'll never know, especially since the director, Gene Minkow, punctuates her final moment with an all too obvious, contextually inappropriate and altogether irrelevant feminist exclamation point. That is known as saving the worst for last.
"The Country Girl" by Clifford Odets. Produced by Fleetwood Stage, 44 Wildcliff Drive, New Rochelle. Performances through next Sunday. Box office: (914) 654-8949.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Peters, left, Victor Barbella and Ellen David in "The Country Girl," a play by Clifford Odets at Fleetwood Stage in New Rochelle. (Minkow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; ODETS, CLIFFORD (1906-63); MINKOW, GENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: COUNTRY GIRL, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



653 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: LABOR; 
Office Cleaners Seek Pact in Slow Economy

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
CISERON CIRIACO calls himself one of "las personas invisibles" -- the invisible people. The 62-year-old New Rochelle resident, who speaks only Spanish and has six grown children, leaves his home for work at 7 each morning. He goes to a shoe repair shop in Port Chester, where he works all day. Then, he goes to an office building in Armonk to clean at night. Getting home at midnight, Mr. Ciriaco sleeps for a few hours before returning to the shoe shop and then, again, to the cleaning. 
 While the terrorists who attacked the World Trade Center hit a symbol of the rarefied echelons of American capitalism, those in low-paying jobs have sustained the worst financial blow. According to a report from the New York State Department of Labor, those who work in low-wage industries like restaurants, transportation, retailing and hotels have suffered a high proportion of job losses since Sept. 11. In Westchester County, this comes on the heels of a five-year period in which, though the economy was expanding rapidly, low-wage job growth did not follow. In 1995, for example, 5,521 people worked in department stores. By 2000, that number had decreased by 1,152. 
 It is in this environment that Mr. Ciriaco's union, Service Employees International Union 32BJ, must renegotiate a contract with a dozen cleaning contractors for its 2,000 commercial office cleaners in Westchester. The union now also includes the Westchester cleaners, who were members of Local 32E. Contracts for most of its members expired Oct. 31. Negotiations are now under way. 
In a surprise development, Local 32BJ reached a tentative agreement for their New York City workers this week, seven weeks before the contract was to run out, due, both sides said, to a joint determination not to add to post-Sept. 11 anxiety. 
Currently, for his nights spent bagging garbage, vacuuming carpets and dusting other people's desks, Mr. Ciriaco is paid $6.30 an hour and receives no benefits. 
In the coming contract, Mr. Ciriaco wants only "a just wage and health benefits."
"Medicine and doctors visits "are so expensive," he said. "And it's so hard to spend time with your family when you work so much. But you have to provide." 
Michael P. Fishman, the union's president, said that a standard wage and benefit package was also important, because as it stands now without one, 80 percent of workers are compensated differently and thus compete against one another. While Mr. Fishman understands that the economy is slow, he is hopeful that an agreement can be reached and a strike avoided. A portion of his hope is because "people are more generous with each other since Sept. 11 and now is not the time to be squeezing an extra nickel out of workers pockets." 
But Robert Kaestner, an economist and a professor at the Institute of Government and Public Affairs at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said that while such action would be decent, the words Local 32BJ will probably hear most frequently at the bargaining table: "The country is sacrificing and this is how you're going to sacrifice. We'll give you yours when times are good." 
He said that a big reason for businesses relocating to the suburbs from the city is to save on such costs. As such, the likelihood of big concessions isn't great, especially since the cause of low-wage, mostly immigrant workers probably won't resonate with the Westchester public. 
Larry Colin, of Colin Service Systems in White Plains, one of the cleaning contractors, reached by phone last week, declined to comment on the status of the negotiations.
Asked if he sees a strike, a satisfying settlement or something in between, Mr. Ciriaco, the invisible person, could only laugh softly. "We'll see that very soon. I don't know." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SHOE STORES (77%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); TERRORISM (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



654 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
An Old-Fashioned Job Hunt

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
EILEEN MORAN, an aspiring fashion designer, thought she had the right formula for success. She would attend a prestigious college, graduate with a degree in marketing and small-business entrepreneurship and then land a job with an independent fashion house or start her own company.
 It hasn't quite worked out that way. Although her passion is designing children's fashions, she earns her living these days as a freelance buyer of yarn for Ralph Lauren in New York. "It seems like people who want to work with smaller, innovative companies are forced to work for these big guys, which is not what I want," said Ms. Moran, 23, who graduated last year from George Washington University and lives in Jersey City. "Big companies are laden with bureaucracies and red tape." 
 Her story is familiar to many young people in the post-dot-com, post-Sept. 11 world. Gone are the days of fat paychecks and stock options, of leapfrogging from start-up to start-up or becoming a chief executive before the age of 30. Gone are the days of instant gratification. 
Because of the weak economy and the tight job market, "competition is high and people are going to have to go back to working their way up the ladder," said Jan Dinerstein, president and founder of the Dinerstein Group, an executive search firm in Manhattan.
"The entrepreneur who doesn't have life experience or wisdom is gone," she said. "You need to have some very real-world experience to deal with this economy, and you need to know how to run a profitable company."
But doesn't all that sound like the days of yore, when references, networking and healthy doses of nepotism helped to land jobs? Indeed, old-fashioned job-searching tactics are making a comeback, so young people may want to pay close attention to what the experts have to say.
Anne Maxfield, co-owner of Project Solvers, a New York firm that finds freelance and full-time employees for retailers and apparel companies, says it is more important than ever for job hunters, especially those without much experience, to do their homework. "Do background research so you know the company as well as anyone who works there," she said. If you're looking for a job in fashion, for example, become familiar with what's in the stores, she added. 
Career experts also advise young job seekers not to bother sending out their resumes en masse, especially when so many companies are no longer opening unsolicited mail because of the anthrax scare. Instead, they suggest focusing only on companies that are actually hiring by scouring the help-wanted advertising of newspapers and trade publications or job listings on the Internet. Job seekers should find out if their resumes are going to a human resources department or to a specific department head. "If it's for H.R., it's got to be much more conservative, straightforward and corporate, whereas for a department head you can be more creative," Ms. Maxfield said.
THE rules of conduct have also changed. And career experts offer these additional suggestions: be on time for interviews, turn off your cellphone, make eye contact with the interviewer and, please, proof your resume for spelling or grammatical errors. 
But don't take a job that doesn't thrill you, even if it means collecting unemployment a little longer.
"People give up too easily looking for what's really making them happy," said Linda Sedloff Orton, president of Intelligent Marketing Solutions, an outplacement firm in Manhattan for marketing professionals.
"Historically, in an economic recession, everybody says you have to be flexible," she said. "I'm saying, 'Don't let someone push you into a job that you're not going to be happy in.' Find out what's really going to charge you and do it."
Sometimes, fate intervenes and nudges the process along. Last month, Emily Retterer, 27, was laid off from her job as a project manager for Hubbard Online, a Web development agency in New York. Even while she was employed, however, she was unclear about her career goals and was enrolled part time in a master's program in elementary education at Hunter College. Since the layoff, she has had time to re-evaluate her plans and now realizes that she really wants to teach.
Today, she attends school full time and works as an assistant first grade teacher at a private school for boys in Manhattan. 
"It was an amazing company and a great group of professional, wonderful people, but I wasn't passionate about being a project manager at a Web development agency," she said of her previous job. "I thought, 'Why am I wasting my time in a position that's meaningless?' "
As for Ms. Moran, she still hopes that her less-than-idyllic day job strengthens her resolve to pursue her dreams in clothing design.
The situation "fuels your power and energy into doing something on your own," she said, and to "be ready when the economy swings back."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Case) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (60%); CHILDREN (56%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (71%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



655 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE; 
Preserving Stuyvesant Town As a Shrine to the Ordinary

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
Changes are afoot at Stuyvesant Town. So is a movement to stop them. Last week, the Historic Districts Council announced its support for designating Stuyvesant Town a landmark. Now, its tenants must decide if they want to approach the Landmarks Preservation Commission. 
 Stuyvesant Town, between 14th and 20th Streets from First Avenue to Avenue C, was built by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company to provide inexpensive housing for World War II veterans. It has remained largely unchanged since it opened in 1947. 
 "Stuyvesant Town has endured," said Corinne Demas, who wrote a memoir, "Eleven Stories High," about growing up in the complex. "It's like this old person who has seen the whole span of things."
But since MetLife began renovating formerly rent-stabilized apartments and renting them at market rates early this year, residents have feared the demise of their pastoral middle-class community. 
Proponents of landmark status say that Stuyvesant Town embodies the values of postwar America, and that while the buildings may be architecturally bland, the complex as a whole is a rare oasis of trees, curving paths and green space.
"I was born here and grew up here," said Alvin Doyle, president of the tenants' association. "I'm used to seeing the trees and well-manicured lawns, and clean walkways, and well-kept playgrounds, and on Saturday afternoons the seniors sitting on benches and the children playing in the playgrounds. That's what I want to preserve."
This week, the tenant group will begin to form a committee to look into the landmark question. Of course, although landmark status can protect a physical community, it cannot prevent economic changes like the looming rise in rents at Stuyvesant Town. But making such a complex a landmark would not be unprecedented. Three East Side housing projects -- the City and Suburban Homes Company Estates, the First Houses, and the Harlem River Houses -- have been granted landmark status.
This year, MetLife embarked on a $50 million project to improve the playgrounds, security booths, lighting, signs and landscaping at Stuyvesant Town and adjoining Peter Cooper Village.
The company says the project will not substantially change the way Stuyvesant Town looks. Mark Keeney, a MetLife vice president, said the company did not yet have a position on the landmark question, but, he added, "If it would detract from what we think is a win-win situation for tenants, which is $50 million in improvements at no cost to them, it would not be something we were in favor of." ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Built to provide inexpensive housing for World War II veterans, Stuyvesant Town has remained largely unchanged. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) Chart: "SAMPLER: On the Town"Grounds -- Stuyvesant Town was built on a portion of the old Gashouse District, which contained a large Armenian enclave, a condemned motion picture theater, foul-smelling gas tanks and tenements. Construction -- The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company spent $114 million to build the middle-class housing complex. About 500 buildings were razed and 3,000 families relocated. Size -- Stuyvesant Town covers 18 square blocks and has 3 dozen buildings, 36,500,000 bricks, 40,000 tons of steel, 8,755 apartments and about 25,000 residents. Sales pitch -- From an early advertising brochure: "The green lawns, the garden, and the trees that surround your home are sentimentally linked with the past . . . Your home is not called Stuyvesant Town by chance. The name itself breathes the spirit of old New York." Veterans -- Of the original tenants, more than 98 percent were World War II veterans and their families. Design -- Lewis Mumford said Stuyvesant Town has "the architecture of the Police State." Paul Goldberger has written that the buildings were "hardly imaginative, but not hostile either." Income Limits -- In 1999, the minimum household income for a one-bedroom apartment was $50,000. This year, it is $80,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CHILDREN (69%); SUBURBS (68%); VETERANS (56%) HOUSING; STUYVESANT TOWN (NYC); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC); METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO 

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%)

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



656 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Another Terror Victim: Health Care

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LONG before the economy started to sink, before terrorists crashed planes into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, before Cipro became part of the popular trademark lexicon, American health care had major problems. Now there are new twists.
 In New York, hospitals are reeling from the financial losses incurred after the attacks. Many of them made purchases to care for patients who, sadly, never came out of the World Trade Center. Hospitals also lost revenue when many patients canceled elective surgeries and other procedures immediately after the attacks. 
 Especially hurt are hospitals close to ground zero, but others lost equipment and supplies in the rubble, too. And hospitals around the country have also been enduring financial blows.
"We have heard about volume drops immediately post-Sept. 11 across the country as elective surgeries dipped," said Martin Arrick, a director at Standard & Poor's. Referring to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, he added: "In New York City, many hospitals have costs that are expected to be reimbursed by FEMA or other grants. However, no one expects that volume lost over the long term will be recovered if patients feel they do not want to travel into Manhattan for care. This is certainly unknown right now."
National issues have cropped up as well. The climb in unemployment has contributed to an increase in the number of uninsured Americans -- and just as the federal government was making progress in reducing their ranks.
According to a recent report by the Commonwealth Fund, 37 percent of unemployed people are uninsured, and more than one-third of the workers who lose their jobs lose their health insurance. The uninsured rate among unemployed adults is nearly three times as high as it is in the general population -- 37 percent versus 14 percent, according to the report. And many of the uninsured will undoubtedly find the cost of buying individual health insurance prohibitive.
Medicaid is an option for some of them, but that raises costs for states and cities, which help foot the bill. The Commonwealth Fund study asserts that an increase of two percentage points in the unemployment rate could add some 3.3 million people to Medicaid under current eligibility rules, at a cost of $5 billion for one year.
The government is finding itself with new and, in some cases, unexpected increases in health care costs. In New York City and New York State, health departments have spent millions to augment laboratories and to pay staff members to work around the clock to analyze samples and to perform other public health tasks. New York City has spent about $8 million since Sept. 11 -- all at a time when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is calling for cuts of up to 15 percent per agency in the city's budget. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has also devoted many staff hours to dealing with the anthrax issue. Some analysts predict that states affected by the anthrax attack may face increases of 2 percent to 8 percent in health care costs as a result. Also on the federal agenda is the development of new antibiotics, and possibly vaccines, to deal with bioterrorism threats. The government and the private sector can be expected to go head to head over who will bear those costs.
"Nationally, health care costs, broadly defined, will go up somewhat as costs of security rise and emergency-preparedness costs rise." Mr. Arrick said. "This would be general readiness as well as bioterrorism preparedness, and would include additional costs for stockpiling of medicines, staff training costs, large numbers of requests for screening of potentially fatal illness."
"Certainly, public health expenditures will rise," he added. "This is a traditionally underfunded sector."
MENTAL health costs are also climbing, with percentage increases possibly reaching double-digits for cities and companies across the nation, but especially in the Northeast. Many employees are seeking these benefits, analysts and consultants say, and New York City has offered them free to anyone who wants them. Some therapists, however, are providing services pro bono.
All of this comes at a time when insurance premiums were already on the rise. In many cases, workers are looking at having to pick up some of those costs, and premium increases for some companies are now more than 15 percent. 
Congress and local leaders will have to consider whether revamping the public health system and increasingly reimbursements to hospitals under government insurance programs are now part of the war on terrorism. It will be interesting to watch.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James O'Brien) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); MEDICAID (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (85%); BUDGETS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (70%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (68%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HOSPITALS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (83%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); JAMES J O'BRIEN (52%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



657 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2555 words

HEADLINE: Now Boarding, Dreams 

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
AS American Airlines Flight 587 to Santo Domingo plunged into a row of well-tended houses on a quiet middle-class street in Belle Harbor, Queens, killing 260 people on board and 5 others on the ground, another American Airlines flight to the Dominican Republic was en route to a much happier ending. 
 Flight 621, which had left Kennedy International Airport about 7:30 a.m., was cruising over the Atlantic east of Florida, heading to the country's second-busiest airport in the resort city of Puerto Plata. Like Flight 587 and countless others before it, Flight 621 was filled with Dominican New Yorkers heading home to celebrate holidays, visit relatives, attend weddings or conduct business in their homeland. 
 Among the passengers aboard Flight 621 was Arsenio Fernandez, a 41-year-old chef from Washington Heights who was on his way to visit his wife, Ana, and other relatives in his hometown, Tenares. The couple had married two years earlier, but after a time in New York, Mrs. Fernandez, 35, returned home to take care of several businesses her family owned. 
Not every one of New York's 600,000 Dominicans travels back regularly. Some have severed ties with the homeland. Others simply cannot afford a trip that can cost more than $600. But countless thousands go as often as they can, some every month. There are 51 direct flights each week, even more in December, mostly on American. It is estimated that 1,000 to 1,500 Dominicans make the trip daily.
The ritual begins weeks in advance with the frantic purchase of gifts on streets like Broadway or West 207th Street in Upper Manhattan, the heart of New York's Dominican community. It ends in small towns like Tenares; the bustling capital, Santo Domingo; or mountain villages. Then there are the embraces, the opening of the presents and a traditional meal, which, even if prepared with ingredients available in New York, tastes better on the island.
For many Dominicans in New York, these journeys home are the defining metaphor of their complex push-pull relationship with their homeland; they embody, vividly and poignantly, the tug between their current lives and their former selves. That fact gave Monday's tragedy a particularly horrible resonance for New York's Dominicans.
"These trips are crucial from the spiritual, sentimental and definitely cultural point of view," said Ramona Hernandez, a sociologist who will become director of the CUNY Dominican Studies Institute in February. "The Dominican community is very poor -- more than one of two households live below the poverty line -- but that doesn't matter. They'll save every single penny to go there on Christmas or on summer vacation."
The trip home is such a mainstay of life for Dominicans in New York that it is a fixture in Dominican songs, movies and fiction.
"It's a flight of so many dreams," said Angie Cruz, author of the novel "Soledad," whose title character makes the trip with her mother. "You're in a place with a lot of family stories. It's comforting, exciting and sad."
Balbuena: "Let's continue placing orders. Peje, your turn. What do you want?"
Peje: "My sneakers. And remember, I take size 10."
Balbuena: "How many pairs?"
Peje (pausing): "Five."
Balbuena: "How many pairs? Don't be shy, it's New York, man!"
-- From the film "Nueba Yol III," in which the main character, Balbuena, remembers what his friends in the Dominican Republic asked him to bring back from New York after he has gotten rich there.
Especially for immigrants whose families back home count on them for economic support, getting ready to travel to the Dominican Republic means collecting items for those back home. Many families keep an eye out for sales and store up used clothing and household goods throughout the year, packing them away in closets. The last few weeks, activity heats up.
First come the suitcases. Virtually every Dominican packs two, the legal limit. But since most of what is in the suitcases is left in the Dominican Republic, suitcases are sometimes left behind too. That makes luggage sales big business in Washington Heights. A typical shop is La Casa de las Maletas (the House of Suitcases), on West 181st Street near Audubon Avenue, a bustling place where cheap luggage of all sorts hangs outside the storefront, covers the sidewalk and is stored in a nearby van. Suitcases start at $5.99.
There are also plenty of cheap presents: $15 jeans, $3 flipflops, a lipstick 12-pack for $2.99, clearly intended for the multitude of cousins and neighbors who do not make the gift A-list. People start stocking up in earnest in October in preparation for the surge of holiday flights. 
"They go by the paycheck," said Jimmy, the man behind the cash register at La Casa de las Maletas. "Every week they buy a little." 
A few blocks away, at the Luz Maria Corporation, pants start at $2, shoes at $5. These are the gifts for the more economically minded travelers. But because many in the Dominican Republic are so label-conscious, Dominicans here who can do so buy Tommy Hilfiger and Banana Republic, even though nearly everything sold in the United States is available on the island. 
Packing is a balancing act. Since suitcases weighing more than 70 pounds will be rejected, many families pack, weigh their bags on a bathroom scale -- and repack.
A typical scene:
"Get rid of those shoes!"
"No, they're for Alberto!"
"Get rid of that skirt!"
"No, it's for Amarilis!"
"Get rid of the soap!"
"No, it comes 10 to a package. We can give it out to everybody."
Danilo Ramos, a Dominican building superintendent from Bedford Park, the Bronx, said: "You try to bring something for everybody: some socks, a liter of whiskey, shoes, soap, toothpaste, perfume. The last week is really hectic. The last night you don't sleep. At dawn, you're still running from one place to another, because the last thing you get to is packing your own clothes."
Mr. Fernandez, who was picked up for Flight 621 by his nephew at 4 a.m., is a seasoned traveler and did not go overboard when it came to gifts. A cook at Frank's Trattoria near Gramercy Park, he brought perfume, shoes and clothes for his wife and half a dozen family members. His wife's family is relatively prosperous and thus less dependent on relatives in New York. Still, his suitcases were packed tight.
"From above, Dominican Republic looks like a sequined dress. When the wheels hit the ground, we feel the vibrations on our behinds. The plane explodes into a concerto of applause filled with gratitude to the captain, who managed to fly the plane safely from one side of the water to the other. As I walk into the airport, I can bite into the humid air. It's so thick and smells like wet soil and rum. We survive the luggage inspectors, getting through their thorough search without having to bribe them. Feeling triumphant, I walk my mother out to the waiting area."
-- "Soledad," by Angie Cruz
Especially for those making their first trip back since emigrating and for factory workers who have scrimped for years to afford the fare, looking one's best is essential. Even those who have fared badly in the United States sometimes borrow money and clothes to pretend otherwise. 
Many travelers dress formally, the men with fresh haircuts, the women too. Boys wear shirts and ties; girls are in frilly dresses, brilliantly polished white patent leather shoes and ruffled socks that make them look like flower girls at a wedding. Once on board, mothers carefully spread napkins over their children's laps to avoid spills and vainly urge their offspring to sit still, lest they wrinkle their pretty clothes.
Almost everybody flies American Airlines, which holds a virtual monopoly on the New York-Dominican Republic routes. Even before Monday's crash, Dominicans had developed a complex love-hate relationship with American, complaining about high prices and baggage restrictions even while favoring the carrier over other airlines that used to travel the same route. 
Passengers start lining up long before the first boarding call, and the atmosphere on board is so festive, flight attendants sometimes struggle to keep passengers seated until the "fasten seat belt" sign goes off.
"Since everyone knows one other, from the beginning people start talking and talking," said Kinito Mendez, the popular merengue singer who had made the trip so often he featured it in his and Johnny Ventura's song "Flight 587," later released as "The Plane."
"The guy next to you says, 'Hey, we'll see each other there, we'll go buy some whiskey, a bottle of rum,' " added Mr. Mendez, whose former manager, Papi LaFontaine, died in Monday's crash. 
Ms. Hernandez of the CUNY Dominican Studies Institute added, "Why do you think they would want to be sitting in a chair just doing nothing?"
Flight 621 was in many ways typical. But back in Washington Heights and in the Dominican Republic, it only started out as an ordinary morning. The Fernandez household of St. Nicholas Avenue, which is headed by the 62-year-old family matriarch, Carmen Fernandez, went about their business as usual. The adults hurried off to their jobs. Ms. Fernandez stayed with her grandchildren, home from school for Veterans Day. She was half-listening to the news when she heard about the crash. 
"My God," she said afterward. "I don't want to remember that moment."
First, she went to look for Jonathan, Arsenio's son, 13, who had gone to his room after a traditional Dominican breakfast of yuca, salami and eggs. Then the phone began to ring as Arsenio's six brothers and sisters began calling desperately: Freddy from the French restaurant where he worked; Gisela, a secretary at United Cerebral Palsy of New York City; Enma, a designer at 1-800-flowers.
Carmen Fernandez rushed to Daysi Travel, a few doors down, where her son had bought his ticket. The family was well known at Daysi, one of many small agencies that serve the neighborhood. Mr. Fernandez used to stop in every day to take advantage of the 15-cent-per-minute rate in the international phone booths to call his wife, Ana, who worked in the agency when she lived in New York. Carmen Fernandez asked the woman behind the plastic divider what flight her son had been on. It was Flight 621. She breathed a sigh of relief. 
Panic was also flooding over Arsenio's family in Tenares. His wife was in Cafeteria Charlie, one of the family businesses, when she heard the news. Although she knew her husband was booked on the Puerto Plata flight, she was terrified; she was aware that if one plane is overbooked, passengers will sometimes get on the next one.
Meanwhile, on Flight 621, Arsenio Fernandez sat quietly and sipped a soda.
"Everything was just fine," he said afterward, "because we didn't know anything."
"Let me confess: I love Santo Domingo. I love coming home to the guys in blazers trying to push little cups of Brugal into my hands. Love the plane landing, everybody clapping when the wheels kiss the runway. . . . Love the redhead woman on her way to meet the daughter she hasn't seen in 11 years. The gifts she holds on her lap, like the bones of a saint. . . If this was another kind of story, I'd tell you about the sea. What it looks like after it's been forced into the sky through a blowhole. How when I'm driving in from the airport and see it like this, like shredded silver, I know I'm back for real."
-- "The Sun, the Moon, the Stars," by Junot Diaz
 As the plane starts its descent, things quiet down. Many people pray. 
A merengue band is generally on hand, and representatives from the three B's of the Dominican rum industry -- Barcelo, Brugal and Bermudez -- wait outside the gate offering small cups of rum to debarking passengers. 
Watching passengers walk from customs into the public waiting area makes non-Dominicans wonder if relatives can possibly love one another as much as these people seem to. When a person has not been back in years, there are sometimes so many relatives, they arrive in a rented bus.
"They hug you, they bite you, they pinch you, they jump all over you, they do everything," said Mr. Ramos, the building superintendent from Bedford Park. "Ten people hug you at once. It's like when a team wins the World Series, everyone jumping all over one another at the same time. You don't know who to embrace first."
"The airplane arrived
This is Flight 587, destination Santo Domingo
The airplane arrives full with bursting suitcases
It arrives full of hope
Also full of joy
To spend the Christmas season with my people
And look and see if more can fit
To take it to my mother
I'm taking seven suitcases
And this is not enough!
Hey Kinito, how many suitcases?
This is unprecedented, Ventura!"
-- "The Plane," Kinito Mendez and Johnny Ventura
Upon arrival, relatives who couldn't make it to the airport are waiting eagerly. The suitcases are treated with great care; in many ways, they are the most visible, tantalizing symbols of the American dream made flesh. Food is served, perhaps a grandmother's famous sancocho, the traditional Dominican stew. Neighbors arrive. Ice-cold Presidente beer flows freely.
Unlike the approach to the Santo Domingo airport, the flight to Puerto Plata comes in over water. The plane drops dramatically to the runway of the Gregorio Luperon International Airport, which nestles between the sandy beaches of the resort town and the verdant Isabela de Torres mountain. Passengers climb down the stairs and cross the tarmac to the terminal, pass through customs and are hugged by friends and relatives who had watched the landing from a partly enclosed balcony. 
But the arrival of Flight 621, which touched down at 11:58 a.m., was different. If possible, the greetings were more heartfelt. They were also more solemn, for every Dominican was touched, spiritually if not directly, by the doomed flight. There was no free rum this day. There was no merengue group. 
Mr. Fernandez's friend, Ramon Collado, who was waiting to pick him up, had called Ana Fernandez as soon as the plane landed. But the real relief did not come until after the 75-minute drive to Tenares.
Embraces were followed by an order: call New York. Just after 3 p.m. New York time (4 p.m. Dominican time), 11 hours after Arsenio had left for the airport, the phone rang in his St. Nicholas Avenue apartment. Carmen Fernandez was on the verge of tears as she spoke to her son.
"Oh, dear Lord, were you scared?" she asked.
"You can't be scared of death," her son replied.
Gifts were not handed out until the evening, although long before, Arsenio had had his favorite meal -- rice, peas and beef -- and a Presidente straight from the freezer of his father-in-law's supermarket.
It was a subdued reunion. A relative of Arsenio's father-in-law had just missed Flight 587. But the family knew of one other person from a nearby town who had not been so lucky.
In New York, even as Dominicans mourned, they kept booking flights. Rivas Travel at 184th Street and Broadway sold 37 airline tickets the day of the crash, said its owner, David Rivas. Just as Sept. 11 had little effect on ticket sales, neither did Nov. 12. 
"For the Dominican to go to Santo Domingo during Christmas and summer is like the Muslims going to Mecca," Mr. Rivas said. 
Ms. Hernandez, the sociologist, added: "Family for us is not just mother, father, sister. It's cousin, cousin of cousin, the neighbor who saw me grow up. They are the extended family. That's what makes us who we are."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmen Fernandez (above, on telephone) whose son Arsenio flew to the Dominican Republic on Monday. Travel agencies and suitcase stores are fixtures of her Washington Heights neighborhood. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times); (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Suitcases start at $5.99 at luggage shops like La Casa de las Maletas in Washington Heights. Below, a street in Tenares, the Dominican town which Arsenio Fernandez flew home to on Monday. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); Arsenio Fernandez in his island hometown. (Geovanni Cuevas for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); CHRISTMAS (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); FAMILY (72%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DOMINICAN-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



658 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1910 words

HEADLINE: Airlines and Antitrust: A NewWorld. Or Not. 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT is one of the worst periods in aviation history.
 Hijackings and catastrophic crashes. Bankruptcies and buckets of red ink. Tens of thousands of laid-off workers and billions of dollars in a government bailout that may not be enough. Sharp reductions in passenger travel and scheduled flights at a particularly vulnerable time in the economic cycle. 
 Will all this lead to a new wave of airline consolidation? Should it be allowed? Whether or not the predicament of such a vital industry should prompt a reconsideration of fundamental antitrust policies is suddenly a matter of urgent debate. Although the industry had already shrunk significantly before the current crisis -- four airlines control two-thirds of the domestic market, and five global alliances control three-quarters of international travel -- some major deals, like the proposed acquisition of US Airways by UAL, parent of United Airlines, were blocked earlier this year. Is it time to rethink the traditional approach to airline mergers, strategic alliances and cost-sharing partnerships? 
The weakest airlines are quietly on the prowl for stronger partners, and the healthiest ones are looking for new opportunities. Federal regulators are reviewing a proposed alliance between American Airlines, the world's largest, and British Airways, Europe's largest -- two of only four airlines permitted to operate the profitable, heavily traveled routes between American cities and Heathrow Airport in London.
The decisions of Washington policy makers about these deals could shape the industry, not to mention prices and consumer choices, for a generation. Here are the arguments put forward by each side.

The Old Rules May Not Apply
The airline industry, like the information technology and telecommunications industries, tends to evolve toward heavy concentration among few players because of the phenomenon economists call "network effects." In these industries, often characterized by high barriers to entry and heavy capital costs, a product or service becomes vastly more valuable the more people use it. The old antitrust principles do not apply easily because there are countervailing benefits to consumers -- like lower prices, standardization or more frequent service -- when control of the industry is in the hands of a few companies. 
"Everyone benefits by consolidated routes and more cross-country and transcontinental travel," said George L. Priest, a professor at Yale Law School. "And having these large national airlines aids that network effect. You'd still like to have competition over some range and for some routes. But you can't have it for all." It is simply too costly; ticket prices would soar to support the network.
American Airlines and British Airways are making that argument in their quest for immunity from antitrust prosecution in their proposed alliance, and supporters of the deal say it is even more relevant these days.
In testimony earlier this month before the antitrust subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Donald J. Carty, the chairman and chief executive of AMR, parent of American Airlines, noted that because of the industrywide decline in demand, "it does not make sense for any of us to fly the schedule we had before the attacks."
But the alliance, Mr. Carty said, would have offsetting benefits. "Antitrust immunity would not only allow us to be more efficient and cost-effective in the delivery of these services, but consumers would be big winners also," he said. "Quite simply, in this increasingly global economy, what our customers are telling us is that they want one-stop shopping. Immunity allows airline alliances to provide that, while at the same time it allows allied carriers to offer better and more competitive network services" -- like better connections and schedules.
He cited a study that suggested the proposed alliance would lead to consumer benefits, mostly in lower fares, of at least $40 million a year.
Other experts say that amid the present difficulties, there are broader policy reasons for considering lenient antitrust treatment of the industry.
During the Depression, the Supreme Court adopted an approach to antitrust that took into account the distressed conditions of one industry when it upheld a joint sales venture involving 137 producers of bituminous coal. "The interests of producers and consumers are interlinked," the court said in an opinion by Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes. "When producing concerns fail, when unemployment mounts and communities depending upon profitable production are prostrated, the wells of commerce go dry." 
Since then, as the goal of antitrust enforcement shifted exclusively to the promotion of competition, and as free-market advocates grew in influence, the distressed-industry argument has fallen into disfavor. .
But now some experts say American antitrust law should take a more flexible approach and, as in some nations in Europe and Asia, take into account the welfare of employees, shareholders, creditors and other constituents of a corporation.
"Antitrust ought to be about more than economics," said Robert Pitofsky, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission in the Clinton administration and an authority on antitrust law. "It ought to concern itself with the welfare of workers, shareholders and so forth."
There is more recent precedent for such a broad approach. Concerned about the decline of media voices, the newspaper industry persuaded Congress in 1970 to grant a generalized exception to antitrust law and permit joint operating ventures involving financially weak newspapers. In the early 1980's, the Reagan administration allowed the merger of LTV and Republic Steel, the nation's third- and fourth-largest steel companies, because of that industry's distress.
Now some airline executives contend that the $10 billion recently approved by Congress for the airline bailout, to be spent by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, should encourage mergers because they would ultimately benefit consumers by preserving routes and lowering fares.
"In cases where some airlines don't pass muster, or can't perform well enough, or simply because it makes good sense, the loan authority board should promote -- and perhaps encourage -- combinations of carriers," said Leo F. Mullin, chairman and chief executive of Delta Air Lines, in a speech last week at the Wings Club in New York. "Consolidation is an accepted method in all industries of improving performance operationally and financially." 

The Free-Market Remedy
If the government promotes consolidation, either allowing mergers or using government money to help finance them, critics say, Washington bureaucrats, rather than the marketplace, will shape the industry. That, they say, could prove disastrous for travelers.
"This would amount to using a credit organization with no commitment to competition to potentially determine winners and losers based on capital allocation, a form of a national industrial policy," said Albert A. Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a nonpartisan research organization. "Downsizing should be done incrementally rather than by a central decision. It is likely to be more efficient over the long haul if each airline makes its own decisions about what routes or equipment it wants to take out."
Mr. Foer and other experts say the present regulatory system is flexible enough to address the airlines' financial problems. Current rules do not consider an industry's overall distress, but there is an established antitrust jurisprudence for dealing with distressed companies. 
"You think about things differently," Professor Priest explained, "because if a company is about to go out of business, there are fewer competitive issues posed."
Supporters of current policy also note that the industry has already consolidated enormously, and they argue that the results have been detrimental to consumers. They point out that the airlines have a checkered history of price-fixing and other anticompetitive schemes.
"This is an industry that lost its competitive juices years ago, because the government did not crack down quickly enough on discriminatory practices at fortress hubs," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. "Once antitrust goes awry and you mess things up, it's very, very difficult for antitrust to fix things later. It's good at preventing concentration in the first instance. But once you have highly concentrated markets and an intervening event like terrorism that changes the demand curve, antitrust can't offer a solution. It can't create competition that isn't there anymore."
Antitrust officials have stepped in to block deals when the proposed partners have too much overall market share, have overlapping routes or dominate a particular hub, leading to higher fares. If United had bought USAir, the government contended, there would have been monopoly or duopoly service on more than 30 routes.
Defenders of the current rules system also say that the industry is capable of fixing itself in the long run, that the crisis will eventually subside and thus should not be used as a pretext for encouraging further deal-making. The proposed alliance between British Airways and American, they say, is precisely the kind of deal that should be blocked, because the cost to competition will far outweigh any efficiencies. They say the effect of the alliance would be to eliminate competitors that offer lower fares for many flights across the Atlantic. The vigorous competition between American and British Airways between American cities and Heathrow has been beneficial for smaller upstarts like Virgin Atlantic.
"At a time when we may be witnessing a forced reduction in competition among airlines, it is madness to actually encourage even less competition by allowing dominant carriers to collude in setting prices and agreeing to schedules," said Richard Branson, the chairman of Virgin Atlantic, at the subcommittee hearing.
Richard Anderson, the chief executive of Northwest Airlines, added that "the anticompetitive harm flowing directly from the proposed American Airlines-British Airways alliance will be large and enduring."
American and British Airways are now archrivals in a number of major markets, and the proposed alliance would "increase concentration in amounts and to levels that vastly exceed the increases and resulting concentration levels deemed tolerable under the U.S. merger guidelines," Mr. Anderson said. The levels of concentration in some of those markets, he added, were significantly greater than those that would have been posed by a combination of United and US Airways.
"If granted antitrust immunity, instead of being each other's strongest competitor, American and British Air will cease competing with each other at all, and combine their market power to limit capacity and raise prices," he said. The pair, he said, now dominate routes between Heathrow and Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami and New York.
More generally, the linchpin of airline deregulation was vigorous antitrust enforcement. If there is much more consolidation, some experts fear an absence of competition that could lead to a reintroduction of rate and scheduling regulations.
"If you boil the industry down to too few players," said Michael E. Levine, a former senior executive at three airlines and former dean of the Yale School of Management, "you will face some pretty ugly choices."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Washington is debating whether the airline crisis should prompt new antitrust policy. At a hearing were Donald J. Carty of American, left, Richard Branson of Virgin Atlantic and Leo F. Mullin of Delta. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); (Associated Press)(pg. 13) Chart: "Big Airlines, Big Trouble"The airline industry is dominated by a handful of companies that are now in financial trouble. The antidote, some say, is to allow the largest companies to become even bigger. AmericanMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 19.4%SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 59.6%SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 69.9%NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: -$43NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -$507NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -$525 UnitedMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 19.1SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 63.4SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 71.1NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: - 313NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -292NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -542 DeltaMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 17.4SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 60.5SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 69.0NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: -133NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -90NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -295 NorthwestMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 11.3SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 66.3SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 75.2NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: -171NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -55NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -100 ContinentalMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 9.9SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 66.1SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 70.1NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: +9NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: +42NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -97 SouthwestMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 9.0SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 63.7SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 70.0NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: +121NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: +175NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: +83 US AirwaysMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 6.9SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 61.7SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 71.0NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: -171NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -24NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -433 America WestMARKET SHARE (Based on revenue passenger miles flown, third quarter 2001): 3.4SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2001: 68.2SHARE OF SEATS FILLED OCTOBER 2000: 67.9NET INCOME (in millions) FIRST QTR. 2001: +13NET INCOME (in millions) SECOND QTR. 2001: -42NET INCOME (in millions) THIRD QTR. 2001: -69 (Source: Economy.com)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); HIJACKING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%); AIR FARES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); MERGERS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



659 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
What Detroit Can Teach Washington

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
THERE is an American city where powerful people have swiftly responded to the nation's first recession in 10 years. About a week after Sept. 11, they announced a new policy -- call it a stimulus package -- that has lifted the economy and probably prevented layoffs of thousands of additional workers. 
 The city, of course, is not Washington, where officials in the White House and Capitol continue to proclaim a stimulus plan crucial but still cannot agree on what it should be. 
 But 500 miles away, a group of profit-driven executives have stepped into the void. They work in Detroit, and they have provided a vivid example of just how effective an economic stimulus can be. 
On Sept. 19, General Motors announced that it would temporarily charge no interest on many loans, effectively cutting the price of a $25,000 car by more than $3,000. The move came on the same day that two members of President Bush's cabinet visited Detroit and urged industry officials to help the reeling economy. Ford Motor and the domestic division of DaimlerChrysler quickly took similar steps.
The deals remain in place for most models, and the results have exceeded nearly everyone's expectations. Despite mounting layoffs and a pronounced shift toward conservative spending habits, consumers bought more vehicles in October than in any other month -- ever. Across the economy, retail sales, which stopped growing during the summer and declined 2.4 percent in September, soared 7.1 percent in October, the government said last week.
The level of the response may have been surprising, but the reason for it was basic. "The car companies put things on sale, and consumers are responding," said Richard J. DeKaser, the chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. 
Knowing that the interest-free loans will not last forever, people have suddenly become willing to spend money that they would not otherwise. This is economic stimulus. Many of the proposals in Washington, by contrast, do almost nothing to alter people's calculations about whether they should spend money in the short term, economists say. And immediate spending is the key to preventing the economy from lapsing into a vicious cycle of layoffs, weak consumer spending and yet more layoffs.
With Detroit riding to the rescue, it is tempting to decide that Washington's dithering does not much matter. But as important as Detroit's stimulus has been, it is still not as helpful to the $10 trillion economy as a well-designed plan from Washington would be.
For one, auto sales will almost certainly fall sharply once the incentives expire. Cars will suddenly be more expensive, and many people who were considering buying a new vehicle will have already done so. While the government can pay the bills for a stimulus program by running a deficit, the auto industry may have to lay off workers, potentially undermining a recovery.
By their nature, the deals also require consumers to take on additional debt at a time when debt levels are already high and the weak economy is threatening the income of many people. Even a no-interest loan will create problems for somebody who does not have a weekly paycheck.
"I suspect a lot of people who bought Ford Explorers with zero-percent financing are going to regret it," said John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
BUT the zero-interest loans do offer a wonderful model for how the government could lift the economy. They are surely more effective than refunding taxes to businesses or reducing payroll taxes, as many members of Congress are now urging.
Imagine instead that consumers had a temporary incentive to increase their spending on all products, including everyday ones like clothing or toys that would not require a substantial increase in debt levels. Senators Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat, and Olympia J. Snowe, a Maine Republican, have offered just such a plan, proposing that the federal government reimburse states that suspend their sales taxes for 10 days during the holiday shopping season. The bill is unlikely to pass, Congressional aides say, because of the many logistical difficulties that it presents.
But the economic foundation for the senators' bill is far stronger than for many other proposals. If policy makers need a reminder of that as they try to negotiate a compromise stimulus bill, they can look out their office windows and admire all the new cars on the road.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows monthly change in seasonally adjusted retail sales. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); CITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SALES TAX (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); RETAIL SALES (65%); CONSUMER SPENDING (64%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (64%) TAXATION; SALES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SALES TAX; INTEREST RATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (65%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); PNC (NYSE) (65%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); PATTY MURRAY (57%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (52%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; MURRAY, PATTY (SEN); SNOWE, OLYMPIA J (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



660 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
In Refinancing, a Chance to Manage Your Debt

BYLINE:  BY JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
WOULD you like to improve your monthly cash flow, wipe out some debts or have more money to invest? For millions of American homeowners in these days of low interest rates, those goals can be easily attained through a mortgage refinancing.
 Refinancings now account for a record 78 percent of all mortgage activity; their popularity has soared as mortgage rates have fallen in recent months. The rate on the 30-year fixed-rate loan, for example, stood at 6.51 percent last week. In the previous week, it was 6.45 percent, the lowest in 30 years of record-keeping. 
 Andrea and Richard Weinbaum of Scarsdale, N.Y., decided to refinance their three-bedroom co-op on the advice of Anthony LoCascio, who runs Investment Counseling Inc. in Clinton, N.J. 
Since they bought the unit 10 years ago, it has gone up in value by about $80,000, so they are taking out $26,000 from the equity, known in the industry as cash-out refinancing. The money will let them to renovate their kitchen and bathroom, trade in a 10-year-old Honda Civic for a newer vehicle, pay off credit card debt with interest rates up to 17 percent and increase payroll deductions for retirement plans. "We're not day traders," said Mrs. Weinbaum, 44, a public relations consultant, adding that she and her husband, a 43-year-old computer analyst, "are very conservative people." 
Even though their home equity was reduced, their monthly mortgage payments will still be $10 below what they pay now. The Weinbaums worked through a mortgage broker, the Manhattan Mortgage Company, and are moving to a 6 5/8 percent, 30-year mortgage at Citibank from a 7 1/8 percent mortgage at Chase. The fees for the refinancing total $1,600.
Asked if he was recommending refinancing to many clients, Mr. LoCascio replied: "Absolutely. This is the cheapest form of money right now."
One of his clients had both a first and second mortgage on her home, car payments and credit-card debts. A refinancing that consolidated all that into one mortgage saved her $900 a month, he said.
Mr. LoCascio advises other clients, who have loans against their 401(k) retirement plans, to refinance their home mortgages at lower rates and to take out enough money to pay off the 401(k) loans and even to invest in retirement and college savings plans. "Keep the money invested," he said. "That's how you get ahead."
But he offered an important caution: "You don't want to do this and get into credit card debt again. This is for people who are disciplined."
As helpful as Mr. LoCascio's advice was to the Weinbaums and others, a homeowner does not have to go to a financial professional to reap big savings in a refinancing.
For starters, most people can obtain attractive mortgage rates and terms on their own -- if they are willing to shop around. Homeowners may want to approach their existing lenders first; in order to keep your business, they may be willing to waive some of the closing costs like appraisal and title search fees, which can save hundreds or thousands of dollars. With most mortgages, closing costs and terms are negotiable. 
Who should refinance? Traditionally, experts recommended the move to borrowers who could get a new rate at least one and a half or two percentage points below that on their existing loans. But in today's low-rate climate, many people are benefiting with a new mortgage that is only a half to three-quarters of a point below their present rate. Those who are planning to move to another home in the near future, however, should not refinance, because it may take several months or longer to recoup closing and other costs, which vary widely nationwide.
Jean and Anthony Letai of Medfield, Mass., just refinanced their home mortgage and home equity loan, taking out an extra $10,000 to pay off student loans, and still reduced their monthly payments by $400.
Dr. Letai, 36, an oncologist at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, did not have to pay interest on the student loans while he was in training, but after he became an instructor at Harvard Medical School, with which the institute is affiliated, the loans had a 9 percent interest rate, while his home mortgage was at 7 1/8 percent.
After the rate cut by the Federal Reserve this month -- the 10th this year -- Ms. Letai, also 36, found a 6 1/8 percent, five-year adjustable rate mortgage from Quicken Loans (www.quickenloans.com), owned by Intuit.
Terry Del Rosario-Heard, 43, a psychiatric nurse at Western Medical Center in Anaheim, Calif., and her husband, Edwin Heard, 43, an engineer who specializes in nuclear medical equipment at Adac Laboratories, refinanced two properties through Quicken Loans. The couple own a rental property in Dana Point, Calif., that has appreciated sharply in the four years since they bought it, and they took out $80,000, using part of it to buy a condominium in Manila for Ms. Del Rosario-Heard's mother. Then they refinanced their own home, again taking out cash, with the intent of buying more investment real estate. 
Ms. Del Rosario-Heard said they had moved to 30-year fixed-rate mortgages of 6 1/2 percent in the refinancings from adjustable-rate mortgages of 7 to 8 percent and would keep their monthly payments at $2,200 a month on the Dana Point property and lower their payment to $2,200 on their home. They were paying $2,700 a month for a mortgage and home-equity loan.
Daniel Gilbert, chief executive of Quicken Loans, said the Letais and Heards were among many refinancing applicants. "I've been doing this for 17 years, and this is the strongest demand I've ever seen," he said.
Mr. Gilbert said many families had used this strategy to lower their debt loads. "Consumers have managed the asset side of their balance sheet," paying attention to their investments, he said. "Now they are getting smarter and managing the debt side as well. For most people a home mortgage is the biggest debt." 
HOMEOWNERS should be aware, however, that in certain refinancings part of their mortgage interest may not be deductible. For example, when the refinanced loan exceeds the original acquisition loan and part of the proceeds of the new loan are used for an unrelated purpose like paying off a credit card, the interest attributable to that portion of the loan may not be deductible.
Some industry experts say that mortgage rates are at or near a bottom but that they will stay close to their record lows in the coming weeks. Even so, Mr. Gilbert said, "if you have a significant savings, lock it in."
"Don't be like the people who made the mistake of not selling their dot-coms," hoping the stocks would keep rising, he added.
He offered these examples of the possible savings: A homeowner with a $150,000 loan at 8 percent interest who refinanced at 6 1/2 percent would see payments drop to $948 a month from $1,101. Over the life of the 30-year loan, the savings would amount to $54,919. If that homeowner also had $30,000 of credit card debt at 15 percent interest on which he was paying $579 a month, his total monthly payments would drop to $1,138 from $1,680 if he retired that debt and increased his mortgage amount to $180,000.
Robin Korn, vice president for membership banking at American Express, which has an online bank and offers mortgages at www.americanexpress.com/mortgages, said many customers were seeking to reduce monthly payments or to take money out of an appreciated home for purposes like remodeling or education. But others, she said, were "shortening the terms of their notes to coincide with retirement." 
Suppose that the homeowner with the 30-year, $150,000 loan at 8 percent moved to a 15-year mortgage at 5 7/8 percent. A calculator on the American Express site shows the payment would be $1,256, up a bit from $1,101, but the payoff time would be halved. 
Steve Garrett, manager for financial planning at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis, said some homeowners were using the low interest rates not to refinance but to trade up to a more desirable home -- one that was larger or in a better school district -- while keeping monthly payments level.
And given today's faltering economy, Mr. Garrett suggested that anyone fearing a layoff at work should lock in a lower mortgage rate or a home equity line of credit. 
Not every homeowner benefits from refinancing, he said. An important consideration is the number of years remaining on your present loan. The way mortgages amortize, the payments in the early years are mostly interest, while those in the later years pay off the bulk of the principal. As a result, he said, "it does not make sense for a person who has only five years left in a 30-year mortgage to refinance." 
Even though rates have crept up, "there is definitely a buying opportunity," he said, advising people who were contemplating refinancing or trading up. "Now is the time to pull the trigger."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Weinbaums -- Richard, top, Andrea and Noah -- at home in Scarsdale, N.Y. Money from a mortgage refinancing will help the family with many projects, including a kitchen renovation. (Suzy Allman for The New York Times) Chart: "It's a Deal"With rates on 30-year fixed-rate loans at their lowest levels in years, mortgage refinancings have soared and now account for three-quarters of all mortgage activity. Graph shows 30-Year mortgage rate (National average, weekly) from 1991 and mortgage Bankers Association refinance index (Weekly, 1990=100) from 1991. (Sources: HSH Associates; Mortgage Bankers Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); CONSERVATISM (68%) HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES; PERSONAL FINANCES 

COMPANY: MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (66%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (66%)

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



661 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Champagne Houses Waiting Nervously For the Corks to Pop

BYLINE:  By ALICE FEIRING

 BODY:
MARILYN MONROE was rumored to bathe in it and Noel Coward claimed to drink it for breakfast. Napoleon and Churchill sipped it to toast battlefield victories. For generations, bottles have been uncorked to bless marriages, christen ships, honor job promotions and add a bit of seductive decadence to an intimate moment.
 But now Champagne, the effervescent drink of celebration that represents one-fifth of all French wine exports, is suffering from what could become a prolonged slump in the United States. The economic downturn, year-end corporate austerity, the Sept. 11 attacks and a resilient threat of terrorism have left fewer people in a festive mood. 
 "Except for weddings, no one is ordering Champagne," said Liz Neumark, president of Great Performances, a New York caterer to big corporations and special events whose largest client is now the Red Cross. "They're afraid of being perceived as too 'happy' in a time of mourning." 
It may be premature to write off 2001 for United States sales of Champagne, which is sometimes considered the poinsettia of the wine industry here. Nearly half of annual American sales are made in the weeks from Thanksgiving to New Year's Day -- a sharp contrast with France, where 60 percent of Champagne is consumed, and with Britain, the biggest Champagne export market. Sales have been little affected in those markets, where Champagne is more of a routine drink, and not only for special occasions.
But anecdotal evidence so far of a sales slump in the United States, the second-biggest export market, has unsettled many Champagne houses, wholesalers and retail merchants.
"It's fair to say sales are not doing very well here," said Jean-Louis Carbonnier, a wine consultant in New York and a former director of the Champagne Wines Information Bureau, a French trade group. Even if sales pick up somewhat for the holidays, he said, "I don't think anybody expects these holidays to be especially celebratory."
Harper's, a British weekly wine trade magazine, said in a report dated Nov. 1 that Champagne exports to the United States were down nearly 50 percent in the first half of this year, compared with the same period of 2000. That was because so much unsold Champagne was already on store shelves -- a vestige of the excessive amounts imported for millennium celebrations.
"If the second-half figures for 2001 are as bad," Harper's said, "there will be several major houses looking for an alternative market for more than 10 million extra bottles of fizz."
Last Monday, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's largest luxury goods company and parent of famous Champagne houses like Veuve Clicquot, Pommery, Krug and Moet & Chandon, issued its third profit warning in two months, saying the Sept. 11 attacks had seriously weakened its sales in the United States. No breakdown was given, but wines and spirits account for 20 percent of LVMH's revenue. 
Many American companies that once routinely ordered hundreds of cases of Champagne for holiday parties have drastically scaled back or eliminated their celebrations. David Adler, the president of Bizbash.com, a party consultant based in New York, estimated that the New York catering industry alone had lost $1 billion since Sept. 11, much of it from corporate party cancellations.
Marketing has been a problem for Champagne makers, who worry that they might seem crass or insensitive by encouraging people to forget their worries with bottles of bubbly.
After the September attacks, for example, Pommery pulled a Miami advertising campaign for its Pommery Brut. "It seemed the wrong time to launch a campaign focused in a vacation-tourist destination," said Dacotah Suter, the brand's United States manager. "Given the emotional environment, we thought consumers were not in a mood to be 'seduced' by Champagne advertising."
Some houses reluctantly went ahead with promotions that seemed aloof to the country's collective pain. Mireille Guiliano, the chief executive of Clicquot, said that she was about to cancel some of its La Grande Dame Champagne dinners, at which famous chefs pair their foods with the prestige cuvee, La Grande Dame, but that participating restaurants asked Clicquot to keep them. "They told me, 'We need this now; please come,' " she said.
Others expect that they will need to spend more on advertising to stimulate sales. Bertrand Steip, a senior vice president at Moet & Chandon, said he had requested a larger ad budget for 2002. The House of Krug, which makes one of the most exclusive Champagnes, is considering ordering its first ad campaign.
NOT everyone, however, is avoiding Champagne. A scattering of restaurants have even reported an increase in orders since Sept. 11.
At Five Points, a neighborhood restaurant in Manhattan's East Village, sales of Champagne by the glass have risen 20 percent in the last few months. "Stranger than that," said Vicki Freeman, the co-owner, "we sold more bottles of Krug since the 11th than during the whole two years we've been open. I really can't explain it."
Nor are all sponsors of big celebrations canceling orders. Colin Crowe, a caterer with offices in New York and Los Angeles who specializes in celebrity parties in the entertainment industry, said he had just orchestrated a Los Angeles party with nonstop Champagne. In Chicago, Clicquot reported overflow attendance at its annual Halloween Champagne party.
Others say the decline in Champagne sales so far this year may be a false alarm. They say it partly reflects the oversupply in the United States during much of 2000.
There is also evidence of steady, albeit modest, demand for expensive Champagne at small, private functions. Alison Mesrop, a New York caterer who specializes in groups of fewer than 125, said that unlike caterers who specialize in large events, she is pouring lots of Champagne. And one New York club, which did not want to be identified, recently ordered a large quantity of Pol Roger's Cuvee Sir Winston Churchill, at $175 a bottle, for a member's party.
However, it would take many small gatherings to make up for the absence of the huge holiday parties to which the industry has grown accustomed.
Retail sales figures offer little insight into how the full year will go. A.C. Nielsen, a Chicago-based research firm that tracks consumer spending, said grocery store sales by volume of all sparkling wines in the United States, a category that includes Champagne, had fallen sharply since Sept. 11. 
There is no reliable way to track Champagne sales at wine shops. Sherry-Lehmann Inc., a leading retail wine merchant in New York that can be an indicator of broader trends, said that Champagne volume sales fell 35 percent in September, compared with the month a year earlier, then rebounded in October. But Michael Aaron, Sherry-Lehmann's chairman, said dollar sales from Champagne were down, which shows that consumers are buying less expensive brands. 
Many are turning to nonvintage Champagne, which, unlike the vintage variety, is made annually regardless of the grape harvest's quality.
Many Champagne houses anticipate they will have to accept price cuts if sales do not pick up. Tim Enos, president of Dreyfus Ashby & Cois in New York, the exclusive importer of Bollinger, said the Champagne Bollinger house "is not happy with this state of affairs, though the house understands that it cannot fully bind its importer, distributor and retailers to its desires."
Mr. Steip of Moet & Chandon said: "No one will be making their margins this year. If we are flat with last year, we are fine."
Others were also guarded in their outlook. "Champagne houses will trim costs and wait out the storm," said Jack Robertiello, editor of Cheers, a beverage industry magazine. "But nobody's going out of business -- that is, depending on how long the storm takes to blow over."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the sluggishness of Champagne sales in the United States after Sept. 11 misspelled the surname of an entertainment industry caterer who said he had arranged a Los Angeles party where Champagne was served nonstop. He is Colin Cowie, not Crowe.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some consumers have not given up on Champagne. Gary Fraidin, owner of a Manhattan wine shop, addressed crates for delivery.; In its windows, a Manhattan store displayed Champagne made by the exclusive House of Krug, but on the shelves, lower-priced nonvintage products are also drawing attention from customers. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times) Chart: "Not Much Fizz"Sales of Champagne and other sparkling wines in the United States have dropped since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Graph shows the change in volume of Champagne sold at Sherry-Lehmann, a leading New York wine merchant, compared with the period a year earlier. Graph shows the change in volume of all sparkling wines, including Champagne, sold at grocery stores and drugstores nationwide, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: Sherry-Lehmann Inc.; A.C. Nielsen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); WINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); MILLENNIUM (71%); THANKSGIVING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); STATISTICS (70%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (50%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



662 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Luxuries Are Looking Like Durable Goods

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
EVEN in a tough economy, cachet counts. 
 It helps that those who value cachet most can still afford to pay for it. But after years of high living, luxury goods companies have suffered a bit recently. 
 Dana Telsey, a specialty goods retailing analyst at Bear Stearns, took some time last week to talk about the prospects of purveyors to the carriage trade. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. How big is the luxury goods market?

A. We estimate it is an $80 billion market, growing at an annual compound rate of around 6 percent. That is a couple of percentage points less than the growth the group enjoyed from 1998 to 2000, which was driven by a strong equity market.
There are six main categories of luxury goods: clothing, which accounts for 28 percent of sales; fragrances and cosmetics, which are around 24 percent; shoes and leather goods, at about 21 percent; wine and Champagne, at 15 percent; jewelry and watches, at around 7 percent; and home accessories, at around 5 percent. 

Q. Are margins on luxury goods higher than on merchandise at other retailers?

A. Gross margins on luxury goods can average around 60 percent, compared to more mainstream brands like Liz Claiborne, the Gap or Talbots, with gross margins of 40 to 50 percent. After expenses, operating profits at luxury goods companies are around 18 to 20 percent. On more mainstream brands it is 9 to 12 percent.

Q. How big is the universe of luxury goods stocks?

A. There are 50 to 60 smaller true luxury good companies, but there are about 15 to 20 publicly held companies, including Bulgari, Gucci, Hermes, LVMH, Tiffany, Richemont, which owns Cartier,and Coach.

Q. Last week LVMH, the French company that makes Louis Vuitton handbags and Veuve Clicquot Champagne, among other things, issued its third profit warning since Sept. 13. What is going on with that company?

A. LVMH has a very different business than most of these companies. A big part of their business comes from sales at duty-free stores, and right now traveling is not on the top of everyone's mind. The Japanese represent about 15 percent of total industry sales, and right now the Japanese are not traveling.

Q. You recently estimated that Japan accounts for as much as 45 percent of the global luxury goods market. How can that be, given the weakness in its economy?

A. In Japan, around 20 percent of households invest in the Japanese stock market, compared to 52 percent in the United States. So they are not as vulnerable to the stock market, which has been so bad for so long.
Second, real estate is very expensive in Japan, so homes are smaller. That means they can't show their wealth as much in their homes as in what they wear. Third, there is a portion of the population known as the office ladies, who live at home with their parents. The money they earn from their jobs is spent on brands. Finally, it is important to remember that Japan has the highest savings rate in the world.

Q. What is the condition of balance sheets at these companies?

A. The balance sheets are clean. LVMH is the most debt-laden, but Tiffany has a 19 percent debt-to-capital ratio, Coach is less than 10 percent and Gucci is less than 20 percent.

Q. What are the price-to-earnings ratios of luxury goods companies?

A. On average, the stocks are trading at about 22 times 2002 estimates. In the last five years, the stocks have traded as high as around 33 times. But the average multiple has been 18 to 19 times earnings.

Q. Will luxury goods rebound more rapidly than less upscale products?

A. We think a turn in the economy would be manifested a little bit earlier. Wealth among high-net-worth individuals has been growing. In the U.S., around 10 percent of the population earns about one-third of the disposable income. The negative impact on sales now is really likely to be more psychological than anything else, because the rich are still rich.

Q. Are holiday sales at these companies as important as they are for most retailers?

A. The holiday season is important, but it isn't as big a percentage of sales or earnings as it is for other formats of retailing. Rising unemployment is not terribly relevant to the luxury goods segment.

Q. So which of the stocks do you like?

A. Tiffany, Gucci and Coach are three of our favorite names. Each of these companies has room to continue to open more stores, which allow them to showcase their brand. Each has a strong balance sheet and can weather the economic times we are facing. And each has room to expand product categories.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Telsey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COSMETICS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); TRENDS (70%); PROFIT WARNINGS (65%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS & CO 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (53%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; TELSEY, DANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



663 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
An Insider Shadow Looms Over a Stock's Party

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
ANYONE nostalgic for the heady days of the tech stock bubble can rest assured: pockets of euphoria do remain. A quick consultation with investing chat rooms shows that speculation is alive and well.
 Consider FalconStor Software Inc., a provider of storage networking software in Melville, N.Y. Even though the company is not yet two years old and has amassed $10.9 million in losses, it is a very hot number on both the message boards and in the market. FalconStor's stock price -- up 33 percent this year -- gives it a market value of $385 million. That's 40 times its annualized sales, based upon the $2.5 million it generated in revenue in the third quarter. 
 The company calls itself an emerging leader in "one of the fastest-growing areas of the $44 billion global storage industry." Most of FalconStor's top management hails from Computer Associates, a software company that is its neighbor on Long Island.
FalconStor was private until Aug. 22, when it completed a reverse merger into Network Peripherals, a 12-year-old company with no operations, also known as a publicly traded shell. One big investor in FalconStor, Barry Rubenstein, also served on the board of Network Peripherals. He is a principal at Wheatley Partners, a Long Island venture capital firm. He and Wheatley also own 45 percent of Network-1 Solutions, a microcap company in which FalconStor invested $2.3 million on Oct. 2. 
Network Peripherals agreed to the merger because it lacked the resources to compete in the storage networking market, said Jacob Ferng, FalconStor's chief financial officer. He called the merger "financial re-engineering" and explained that together, the companies' products held promise.
Although the stock is down 37 percent from a midyear peak, ebullient investors pushed it up 35 percent last week. They may not realize that 28 million shares held by insiders could come onto the market at any time and without notice. Given that the company has only 44 million shares outstanding, that's one heck of an overhang. 
In the merger, Network Peripherals' insiders agreed to a one-year lockup on the 28 million FalconStor shares they received. But, unlike most lockups, this one can be rescinded at the discretion of FalconStor's board. 
In May, when the merger was announced, shareholders were advised of the lockup release in regulatory filings. "Following the merger, the board of directors of the combined company may, in its sole discretion, release any or all of the shares from the lockup restrictions," the company said. 
On Sept. 21, FalconStor registered the 28 million shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission, allowing them to be sold any time. In this filing, the company changed its description of the lockup, adding that its release could come "at any time with or without notice."
On Friday, a company spokeswoman said no insiders had yet been allowed to sell. Mr. Ferng said any decision to rescind the lockup would be based on market conditions. In spite of the "without notice" clause, he said, the company will disclose when shares have been sold in a quarterly or annual filing "or other method of communication with the public." 
Why put in the clause? The spokeswoman said it was just a disclaimer. 
Nevertheless, Paul Elliott, an analyst at Thomson Financial/First Call, said that releasing insiders from selling restrictions undermined the whole idea of a lockup. He said: "A lockup is a big selling point because buyers of the stock don't want insiders to be swamping the existing shareholders. These early releases are not positives. And the timing of this one is really unusual."

GRAPHIC: Graph shows weekly trading in FalconStar Software since January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHAT ROOMS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (89%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); REVERSE MERGERS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (67%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: FALCONSTOR SOFTWARE INC (95%); CA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FALCONSTOR SOFTWARE INC 

TICKER: FALC (NASDAQ) (95%); CA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



664 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1082 words

PERSON: Chekib Khelil 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
For OPEC's Captain, U.S. Roots

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
CHEKIB KHELIL, the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, will tell you that the only house he owns is in Potomac, Md.
 He is an Algerian, but he grew up in Morocco. When he is not directing OPEC, he runs Algeria's oil ministry, but his wife and two grown sons are American citizens. As he tries to reorganize the Algerian energy sector, he draws on his 20 years of experience in reforming the oil industries of Latin America as an official at the World Bank. 
 A life that has coursed through so many different cultures appears to have given Mr. Khelil, 62, a flair for compromise and diplomacy that is crucial for steering the OPEC ship, with its conflicting egos and national interests. It certainly gave him the toughness to embark, right or wrong, on a price war last week with OPEC's biggest rival, Russia. In a move that blindsided the markets and sent world petroleum prices to two-year lows, the OPEC ministers meeting here chose not to reduce output unless non-OPEC producers did the same.
"Of course, it will hurt our economy, Saudi Arabia's, Iran's," Mr. Khelil said, "but it will hurt non-OPEC producers, too. We are not trying to put anybody on their knees. We want other producers to share in the pain if they are going to share in the benefits."
And pain it will be. Mr. Khelil's assurances notwithstanding, OPEC wants very much to put Russia and other uncooperative producers on their knees. 
To bolster falling oil prices as the global economy slowed, the 10 voting members of OPEC reduced production by 3.5 million barrels this year, or 13 percent of total output. But OPEC's rivals increased production, cashing in on the high average price of $25 a barrel for oil and gobbling up some of OPEC's market share. 
OPEC said last week that it would no longer tolerate such a situation. Russia, the world's second-largest exporter of oil, after Saudi Arabia, remains defiant. It is a price war, a term that makes Mr. Khelil wince ever so subtly.
Algeria gets 60 percent of its budget revenue and nearly all its foreign-currency earnings from oil, according to Mr. Khelil. As prices tumble, the country will be hit hard. Stumbling out of years of a civil war that has left as many as 100,000 dead, the country must cope with what many Algerians see as continued repression and political corruption. Oil money, and a great measure of fair government, could help fix those problems, Mr. Khelil acknowledged. 
"We are going to have an explosion of social needs now that people are feeling some new freedom again, which we have to meet," he said. "And oil is our only resource."
After leaving the World Bank in Washington, a posting that explains the house in Maryland, Mr. Khelil has cast his lot with Algeria's president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, a childhood friend from the same hometown in Morocco. In 1999, Mr. Khelil took over the Ministry of Energy and Mines, and he is now the head of Sonatrach, the state oil company. (He lives in government quarters in Algiers.)
Though Mr. Bouteflika is a civilian who was elected two years ago to succeed a junta, his administration is nonetheless dogged by controversy. All the other candidates in the race withdrew, and critics contend that the generals who once ran Algeria still do so from the shadows. 
But Mr. Khelil is certain there will be room in Algeria for what he has learned abroad. He is loath to say Algeria will privatize Sonatrach, though he oversaw the privatization of state petroleum concerns in Argentina and Peru. But he wants to make it more like a private company.
"From all those years in the West," Mr. Khelil said, "I have no doubt that transparency, training, markets are the way to go."
After the turns his life took, there may have been no other route for Mr. Khelil except to return home. Algeria was in him, though he moved within other borders. His grandfathers farmed in western Algeria; his father was born there, in Tlemcen, where the last Arabs from Spain fled centuries ago, Mr. Khelil said. The elder Khelil was a tailor who ended up in the Moroccan town of Oujda, importing fine fabrics from France and outfitting local doctors and teachers, and, years later, his own overachieving son. 
Mr. Khelil grew up with five brothers and six sisters, "and none of them wore a veil," Mr. Khelil said with a laugh. In the working-class family, the children seemed to thrive on education. They became doctors and teachers. But Mr. Khelil was intrigued by the coal mines he visited on school trips and decided to be a mining engineer.
"Does the year 1959 mean anything to you?" he asked, suggesting that the year meant everything to him.
It was then that Algeria was in the thick of a war of independence against France, its colonial master. For someone of Algerian descent like Mr. Khelil, then 20, studies in France were sealed off. So he went to the country that would take him, the United States. He gave up mining to pursue petroleum engineering at Ohio State. "The coal mines in southwest Algeria are closed now," he said, "so I guess it was a good bet!"
His speech is the accented, all-American English of "gonna's" and "shoudda's," though he is the only one in his family who is still an Algerian citizen. At Ohio State, he met his wife, Najat Arafat Khelil, a Palestinian from the West Bank, who was there to get a doctorate in physics. They moved to Texas A&M University, where Mr. Khelil earned his doctorate in petroleum engineering and learned to tell Aggie jokes. 
They spent the 1970's in Algeria, and Mr. Khelil rose quickly to become an adviser to the president. But that president died -- "a natural death," Mr. Khelil is quick to point out -- and Mr. Khelil went to work for the World Bank in Washington. His family became American citizens but always traveled back to Algeria. Mrs. Khelil rose to prominence as a leader in the peace movement between the Palestinians and Israelis. Despite the violence now, she still nurtures her hopes.
With four grandchildren who are now in New York and New Jersey, the most recent one born early last week, the Khelils have a hard time staying away from their adopted country of shopping malls and interstates. The friends and quirky memories of home are there, if anywhere.
The first Aggie joke that comes to Mr. Khelil touches on some foreigners who attended Texas A&M and who, like him, rose to prominence.
"What do you call an Aggie two years after graduation?" he asked. "Boss. What do you call him 30 years after graduation? Mr. Minister."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chekib Khelil is OPEC's president and Algeria's energy minister, but he is equally at home in the West. His experiences in many cultures have given him a flair for diplomacy and compromise. (Timothy M. Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); BUDGETS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

BANERJEE, NEELA; KHELIL, CHEKIB 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (91%) ALGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) ALGERIA; RUSSIA

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



665 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Gearhead Nation; 
A Time Out for Technophilia

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
"THERE was a sense that this could be a turning point like no other, that perhaps technology will never be viewed in quite the same way," said Robert C. Post, a senior fellow at the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology.
 Historians, by education and inclination, are practitioners of the long view. But Mr. Post and many fellow members of the Society for the History of Technology, who gathered in San Jose, Calif., last month, agreed that Sept. 11 coming at the end of an extraordinary, decade-long infatuation with technology may have a lasting impact on a nation known for its technological optimism. 
 Airliners and the mail became weapons, while skyscrapers became targets, and all of it shook the belief that America's technological supremacy could shield it from a troubled world. But terrorism is not the only reason the American faith in technology is being questioned. The collapse of the dot-com bubble and the precipitous slide in technology stocks on Wall Street has also had a sobering effect. The economic surge of the 1990's was led by investment in the digital technologies of computing, telecommunications and the Internet. Technology startups were the vanguard of a "new economy" that would render economic downturns obsolete. Meanwhile, traditional companies would be obliterated -- "Amazoned" -- by Internet upstarts.
The Internet was also seen as an important cultural, political and social force, a democratizing technology that would overthrow the old order. When Wired magazine began publishing in 1993, it declared, " The Digital Revolution is whipping through our lives like a Bengali typhoon." It struck a chord at the time, but no longer.
"The story's over," said Jason McCabe Calacanis, publisher of The Silicon Alley Reporter, whose current issue will be its last. "You can't have a magazine about unemployed people."
Henry Blodget, a 35-year-old Wall Street analyst who became a pied piper for Internet stocks, said last week that he was leaving Merrill Lynch, taking a buyout offer along with thousands of others. "It just seemed like a good time to pursue the next thing," he said. Who could argue?
Boom-and-bust cycles -- in business and in public attitudes -- have been a hallmark of new technologies for more than a century. These cycles of business euphoria, disenchantment and consolidation typically last 5 to 10 years, and they accompanied the creation of the telegraph, railroad, electric power and automobile industries, among others.
Every new technology brought with it confident pronouncements that it would, as the Internet enthusiasts declared, "change everything." The telegraph was going to eliminate the obstacles to communicating over vast distances, and with them ignorance and discrimination. The railroad collapsed physical distances, and would unify American society. And the electric light bulb would "defeat the night." 
"Americans are much more likely to go to the incense shrine of technology and get carried away," said John Staudenmaier, editor of Technology and Culture, a quarterly journal of technology history. "And when things turn negative, they also tend to behave as if their faith has been betrayed. We are surely in the betrayed and shocked cycle."
Still, the major technologies of the last 150 years did have a profound impact, and so, probably, will the Internet. A study, led by the Brookings Institution, concluded in September that Internet technology will add one-quarter to one-half a percentage point to the productivity growth of the United States economy over the next several years. Over a decade, that would mean additional economic growth of 2.5 percent to 5 percent, or additional wealth of about $1,250 to $2,500 a person.
SO the question now is whether the United States is experiencing the downswing in just another cycle or whether it is something more -- possibly a shift away from the nation's characteristic technological optimism? 
Throughout history, dominant nations stayed that way in part because they were pre-eminent in the technology of the day. Their influence waned when their innovative edge eroded. The long-term economic decline of Britain, the pioneer of the Industrial Age, was partly attributable to the evolving attitudes of the English elite beginning in the 19th century, a denigration of technological progress and a "profound cultural pessimism," according to Martin J. Wiener, author of "English Culture and the Decline of the Industrial Spirit, 1850-1980." That translated into less investment and innovation.
THERE have always been articulate critics of technology in the United States, like Lewis Mumford, the social philosopher who wrote skeptically of the "myth of the machine." But they have generally not shaken the mainstream belief that technology is synonymous with progress, and that progress meant something good -- higher living standards, greater convenience, longer lives.
The lasting effect of the terrorist attacks, historians suggest, may be similar to the legacy of the atomic bomb or the use of military technology in the Vietnam War. Both have become indelible reminders that technology is not always beneficent, but neither caused a retreat from the fundamentally optimistic American view.
In this case, said Joel Mokyr, a professor at Northwestern University, technological development will likely move in new directions, rather than slow down. World War I, he notes, brought rapid development in the chemistry of explosives and poison gas, and the aerodynamics of fixed-wing aircraft, which supplanted airships. World War II sharply accelerated the development of nuclear weapons and power, antibiotics and computer technology. 
The present conflict, he noted, could well stimulate biotechnology to combat bioterrorism, and hasten the deployment of high-speed telecommunications networks and the development of low-cost, sophisticated video-conferencing to partly obviate the need for air travel.
"Terrorism isn't going to stop technology," Mr. Mokyr said. "It's going to tweak its direction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cutting edge technology and American power have always gone hand in hand. (Culver Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); TERRORISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); HISTORY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PUBLISHING (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



666 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Steven Romick; 
UAM FPA Crescent Portfolio

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
STEVEN ROMICK, who runs the $142 million UAM FPA Crescent Portfolio, says the current economic slowdown is different from those he has faced in the past.
 It has been caused by a contraction in capital spending by corporations, Mr. Romick said, not by a slowdown in consumer spending. "Companies raised so much capital in the late 1990's," he said, "that they were forced to begin retrenching before consumers cut back on spending, because they recognized that they had built too much capacity." 
 How that will unfold is anyone's guess. "Given the uncertainty," he said, "I want a higher margin of safety in the investments I make." So he has tripled the cash stake in his fund, to 30-plus percent of assets, from his usual 10 percent. 
He also aims to minimize the risk in the fund's other investments, which are hardly typical choices for a domestic hybrid fund. Often, such funds own a mix of blue-chip stocks and plain-vanilla bonds, but Mr. Romick prefers small-cap stocks, junk bonds and convertible securities -- preferred stock or bonds that can be converted to shares of common stock at a specified price.
The fund returned 8.4 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 3.6 percent for all domestic hybrid funds, and 1.7 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. It returned 34.9 percent in the last 12 months, versus a 4.8 percent loss for the group and a 16.8 percent decline for the S.& P.
Mr. Romick, 38, is senior vice president at First Pacific Advisors in Los Angeles. First Pacific was acquired in June 1991 by United Asset Management, which in turn was acquired last year by Old Mutual, a financial services group based in London. 
To choose the portfolio's 30 to 35 stocks, most of which are of American companies, Mr. Romick screens stocks for low multiples of price to cash flow and for prices that have hit new lows in the last 12 months. He also looks for companies whose pretax return on assets is at least 10 percent over the last three to five years.
He estimates a company's intrinsic value by evaluating its cash flow, reviewing the sale prices of similar companies in private-market transactions and figuring the costs required to rebuild its assets. Typically, he buys shares at a discount of at least 40 percent to intrinsic value.
Nearly all of his bond stake -- 20 percent of the portfolio -- is in high-yield, or junk, bonds and in "busted convertibles," those whose shares have declined so far that their prices are based on their yield, in the same way as regular bonds, without regard to their conversion feature. 
Opportunities abound among junk bonds, he said. "High-yield bonds are out of favor because the economy is so weak and defaults are rising," he said. He tries to reduce risk by buying high-yield bonds issued by solid companies at 75 or 80 percent of their par value. Over all, the fund's bonds have an average maturity of 6.5 years and a weighted average yield of 15.5 percent, compared with 4.4 percent for seven-year Treasury bonds. 
Mr. Romick bought the American depository receipts of Celanese, the industrial chemicals company, in August 2000 at an average price of $17.88. Celanese is the market leader or holds the No. 2 position in most of its product lines, he said. The company is now based in Germany, but two-thirds of its business is in North America; it was based in New York City until its acquisition in 1987 by Hoechst A.G.
Management has repurchased 10 percent of the company's outstanding shares in the last year and a half, he said, a sign that the company may be undervalued. On Friday, the A.D.R.'s closed at $16.95. He figures their intrinsic value at $40.
He began buying shares of Patterson-UTI Energy, the natural gas drilling company based in Snyder, Tex., at $15.45 in July. Patterson owns drilling rigs and leases them to major oil companies, he said, adding that the number of available drilling rigs in the United States had shrunk to just over 1,000 from about 5,000 in the early 1980's. "There are just not enough rigs to get out the gas that we need," he said.
The shares now trade at $18.34; he puts their intrinsic value at $45.
MR. ROMICK owns 7.5 percent convertible bonds due July 2006 issued by Charming Shoppes, a company based in Bensalem, Pa., that operates more than 1,750 plus-size clothing stores for women in 48 states under names including Fashion Bug and Fashion Bug Plus. He paid an average of $94.27 in July 1996; the bonds now trade at $98. Standard & Poor's rates the issue B, which is below the BBB cutoff for junk bonds. Each bond converts to 134 shares of stock when the price of the company's common stock reaches $7.46; it is currently at $5.68. Even if the bonds never convert, he said, the yield would provide satisfactory return.
He said the risk in the issue was minimal. "Their only debt is these convertible bonds," he said, "and they have cash on their books worth more than the value of the bonds." The company generated enough cash flow in the last 12 months to cover its interest expense 11 times. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hybrid funds often mix blue-chip stocks and plain-vanilla bonds, but Steven Romick likes small-cap stocks and convertible and junk bonds. (Kim Kulish/Corbis for The New York Times) Chart: "UAM FPA Crescent Portfolio"Category: Domestic hybridNet assets: $142 millionInception: June 1993Manager: Steven Romick since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 37%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 8.4%Category average: 3.6% Sector breakdown Other: 41%Bonds: 20%Retail: 13%Real estate: 11%Technology: 9%Manufacturing: 6% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.87% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (88%); CASH FLOW (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMON STOCK (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (66%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UAM FPA CRESCENT PORTFOLIO 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; ROMICK, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



667 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD; 
Cancun Dreaming: Will a Sleepy Town Be Next?

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: LORETO, Mexico 

 BODY:
GERALD G. BARTON, an American developer of golf courses, received an invitation from Mexico last summer to consider building a few courses along the virgin coasts of Loreto, a sleepy town of 12,000 between the Sierra de la Giganta and the Gulf of California.
 After he walked the shores, Mr. Barton turned to his Mexican hosts and told them that he had just envisioned Palm Springs by the sea. 
 Mr. Barton is one of many international investors invited to help create what the Mexico government hopes will be its next tourism miracle. 
Twenty-five years ago, the government bought nearly 45,000 acres of what it considers the nation's most breathtaking coastal property. It has committed nearly $500 million to develop it so far, and it is anticipating another $500 million in private investment over the next five years to make it a golfer's paradise.
The government is sticking with its vision, even though the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States caused a sharp decline in tourism in Mexico -- a stark illustration of the country's heavy reliance on American tourist dollars. The decline has weakened Mexico's economy, which had already been hurt by the economic slowdown in the United States and the falling price of oil, the second-most-important source of foreign income, after manufacturing. The tourism industry is third.
But instead of trying to lessen its reliance on tourism, Mexico is moving the other way. Its officials view the American fear of terrorism as an opportunity. They have begun talking optimistically about a future when wealthy Americans with golf clubs will be drawn to the relative safety of Mexico's coast. 
"I'm absolutely certain that we'll have a couple of bad months for sure, but going on vacation and going places to your typical consumer is like dressing up -- it's part of your way of life," said John McCarthy, director of the National Tourism Development Fund of Mexico, known by its Spanish acronym Fonatur. "You've got to keep doing it." Fonatur is the government agency responsible for attracting investment to the Loreto area. 
Mr. Barton had a similar view. He is the chairman and chief executive of Landmark National, a developer based in Upper Marlboro, Md., that has built some of the most prestigious golf courses, including La Quinta and PGA West in California and Kiawah Island in South Carolina. 
Although Mr. Barton says he has never swung a club, he is no stranger to the magical effect that a well-built golf course can have on nearby real estate. He said that if he decided to build some courses here, he could be selling million-dollar fairway houses in Loreto within three years.
But Loreto has a long way to go. At the moment there are a few unspectacular hotels catering mostly to middle-class retirees and ecotourists from the United States. An abandoned, half-finished marina and unfinished cinder-block houses line the bay. Schools of hundreds of thousands of fish, glistening in the sun, circle in the marina's clear water. A small airstrip nearby has been gouged with large holes to keep drug traffickers from landing. 
Undaunted, Mr. McCarthy said he had received verbal commitments from Greg Norman and Jack Nicklaus to build golf courses, and Mr. Barton is still considering the possibility. Mr. McCarthy also has an agreement from Sol Kurzner, a South African hotel developer, to build a $50 million hotel. Serge Trigano, a former chief executive of Club Mediterranee, has pledged to build a $15 million resort, and Marriott International has shown interest as well. Most are looking at Puerto Escondido, just south of Loreto.
"All of them, they hadn't heard of these places because no one was showing them," Mr. McCarthy said. "And they see these places and they want to be a part of it."
BUT a few hurdles have to be cleared. An ownership dispute over the half-finished marina must be resolved. Much of the sea and the islands off the coast of Loreto are part of a protected state park. And many residents of Loreto are skeptical about allowing the federal government to plan their future.
Antonio Verdugo Davis, Loreto's mayor, said the population of his town could more than quintuple in coming years if construction workers and others seeking employment pour in.
"Don't get me wrong," he said. "There is a strong desire for investment here, but the one worry is that it is done with a plan." Referring to Cancun, he added: "We don't want to see our city surrounded by belts of misery. We want to make Loreto a success forever."
Any discussion of the pitfalls of tourism in Mexico invariably turns to Cancun, which went from a village of 200 fishermen 30 years ago into a sprawling array of beachfront hotels bordered by a largely impoverished population of 600,000. Although Cancun is considered an economic success, some officials fear that its attraction could fade.
Mexico's tourist towns are famous for running this cycle of boom to bust in a generation. Acapulco, once frequented by Hollywood stars, now struggles with drugs and prostitution. Sewage can keep swimmers out of the water.
Officials involved in Loreto's development say they have learned from past mistakes. Now, they say, may be the best time to invest in luring American tourists to Mexico.
"This is a time of crisis for some," Mr. McCarthy said. "But crises always create opportunities. We've got to jump at the opportunities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mexican government has marked Puerto Escondido, near Loreto, for resort development. (Fonatur) Map of Mexico highlighting Loreto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LODGING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GOLF 

PERSON: GORI, GRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); PERU (79%) MEXICO; LORETO (MEXICO); BAJA CALIFORNIA (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



668 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Keeping Up With the Nielsen (Executive) Family

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
JOHN A. DIMLING helped navigate Nielsen Media Research through 16 years of seismic shifts in television while maintaining its dominance in assessing how many people are watching which programs. But Mr. Dimling's challenges in managing this cornerstone of the $60 billion TV advertising industry seem mild compared with what his successor will confront.
 When Nielsen announces tomorrow that Mr. Dimling will step aside in January as chairman and chief executive, to be replaced by his second-in-command, Susan D. Whiting, president and chief operating officer, it will be more than just an expected orderly changing of the guard. 
 Ms. Whiting's ascension comes as an onslaught of new technology is making it harder to accurately measure who is watching what. And Nielsen's main measuring system, still largely based on family television watching behavior that prevailed 15 years ago, before the age of cable and the Internet, is increasingly viewed as anachronistic. 
How Ms. Whiting proceeds will not only determine the fate of Nielsen, a $600 million revenue generator for its corporate parent, the Dutch media conglomerate VNU, but also how TV sponsors decide to spend their advertising budgets.
"Anybody trying to measure media today faces a really daunting challenge," said Alan Wurtzel, the executive in charge of audience research at NBC. "I worry that the technology will outstrip Nielsen's ability to measure it."
The challenges for Ms. Whiting say as much about her company as they do about where television is expected to go in the next five years. And although Nielsen's TV audience measurement system is considered the most reliable available, it was originally devised for a three-network television landscape that no longer exists. 
In short, the efforts of media companies to attract audiences on cable and the Internet have vastly complicated how to measure those audiences, the basis for the prices charged to advertisers. It means that Nielsen must offer more refined ways to count people, industry executives and analysts said. 
That is not to say Nielsen has not taken major steps to change with the times. During his tenure, Mr. Dimling, 63, helped Nielsen move beyond a point ratings system -- in which each ratings point represented 1 percent of the households with television -- to one that also counts numbers of people and demographic categories important to advertisers. Nielsen has spent $200 million on a series of projects preparing for television's conversion to digital broadcasting.
"My challenge is continuing to build the company through difficult technical changes," Ms. Whiting said in an interview last week. 
MS. WHITING, 45, began working at Nielsen 23 years ago in its executive training program. She has spent much of her time dealing with changes in television, notably serving on the team that developed the Nielsen measurement system for cable. She also oversaw the development of software that allowed for minute-by-minute audience analyses. 
All this, she said, has helped her prepare.
But even the advent of cable pales in comparison with the latest technological changes. Consider personal digital video recorders offered by services like TiVo, Microsoft's UltimateTV and SonicBlue, the maker of the ReplayTV. These devices record hours of TV programs digitally, making it easy for viewers to skip through commercials quickly. Though relatively few people now have them -- perhaps 500,000, according to industry estimates -- their use is expected to grow as prices drop and as more television and cable box manufacturers include them as standard features.
Traditional Nielsen "people meter" boxes, which count what family members in a sample household are watching, were not devised to measure programming viewed using personal digital video recorders.
So, Ms. Whiting said, Nielsen has begun to strike software deals allowing it to communicate with the new devices and detect what programs or commercials people watch, and when. 
The complications go beyond software issues. Nielsen and its clients are trying to figure out how people who watch a program through a personal digital video recorder days after it was originally shown should be counted in audience figures. If Warner Brothers, for instance, has bought commercial time on NBC's "Friends" on a Thursday night to promote the weekend opening of a film, should someone who watches that episode on a TiVo recorder two weeks later be counted in the audience that Warner Brothers has bought -- even if it is too late for that commercial to do any good?
"The question really is: How do buyers and sellers of commercials want to count commercial time?" Ms. Whiting said. "Do they want to count it if it's a week after, or two weeks after?"
Other issues go directly to the core of what Nielsen does. It is under increasing pressure from networks and sponsors to devise a more accurate system for counting audiences in general. 
Network executives say the current system, though widely considered the only viable one available, is flawed. (How flawed, it seems, tends to depend on how well that network is doing in the Nielsen ratings.)
David F. Poltrack, head of research at CBS, said the national Nielsen audience sample of 5,100 households, which is supposed to represent television habits in the nation's 105 million homes with television, was greatly skewed. Over a two-year period, each family member in a participating household is asked to press a button upon entering or leaving a room where television is being watched. About half the families approached by Nielsen generally agree to participate, the company said. But those who do participate, Mr. Poltrack said, are likely to make different viewing choices than those who do not.
"The system, as it's currently constructed, assumes viewing patterns of noncooperators are the same as the viewing patterns of the cooperators," Mr. Poltrack said. Such an assumption, he added, is "almost certainly wrong."
Mr. Wurtzel of NBC said there was no guarantee that participants were diligent about logging in and out of the Nielsen machines. That was not considered as much of a problem in past years as it is now.
"I think the problem is that in the past, when the pie got sliced in big chunks, it didn't matter when you were off," Mr. Wurtzel said. Now, networks like WB and UPN sell advertisers on very specific audiences -- women 18 to and 34, for example, or boys 12 to 17. "Today, people are making decisions based on a tenth of a point," he said, "so the accuracy has become far more important."
NIELSEN says it is closing in on ways around this problem. For instance, the company is testing a pager-sized device in conjunction with Arbitron, the radio measurement service, that records what people watch or listen to by reading codes embedded in a program's audio tracks. Participants need only keep the devices with them. The system can also detect what people watch or listen to when they leave their homes -- in offices or sports clubs -- something that Nielsen cannot do now.
Even while trying to improve, Nielsen says its current data system is more than adequately accurate.
"When we tell CBS that X millions of men 18 to 49 are watching 'Everybody Loves Raymond,' that's a very good estimate," Mr. Dimling said. Still, he said, "we have a commitment to do everything we can to improve the quality of the data we provide." And Ms. Whiting is the right person to lead Nielsen through the vast changes that television is about to face, he said.
Network executives and television analysts agreed with him.
"Every transition is an opportunity for a new administration to come in and look at things with fresh eyes," Mr. Wurtzel said. "I'm hoping that Susan will do that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Critics say Nielsen's research methods, like having viewers themselves note what they watch, are outdated. Nielsen customers reviewed data at its office in Dunedin, Fla. (Nielsen Media Research); Susan D. Whiting will become chief executive of Nielsen Media Research in January. It faces hurdles not only in doing its job, but also in defining it. (James Estrin/The New York Times) Chart: "A Ratings Challenge"Personal digital video recorder sales are expected to surge as the price falls. This presents a new problem for Nielsen's rating system because users of the devices can easily skip commercials. Graph shows AVERAGE PRICE (PROJECTED) and UNIT SALES (PROJECTED) since 2001-2005. (Source: eBrain Market Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (50%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TELEVISION; RECORDING EQUIPMENT; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: RUTENBERG, JIM; DIMLING, JOHN A; WHITING, SUSAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



669 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Cry for Help: This Industry Doesn't Fly

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
EIGHT years ago, Robert Crandall, at the time chairman of the parent company of American Airlines, famously threatened to allow American to go out of business if he could not get the airline's costs down.
 Today, Mr. Crandall's successors at American and other airlines face the same predicament. This time the decision to fold may be out of their hands. The combination of falling sales and rising costs has put every major carrier, with the exception of Southwest Airlines, at risk of failure, said Peter Walsh, an aviation expert at Mercer Management Consulting. The agreement Congress reached on Thursday to give the federal government control over security at airports for three years may make passengers feel more secure, but it will not fix the industry's structural crisis, Mr. Walsh said. 
 Sharply rising labor costs, high taxes and overexpansion put the airlines on the brink of crisis even before Sept. 11, industry executives and consultants said. 
The terrorist attacks worsened the industry's problems, causing passenger traffic to plunge more quickly than airlines could cut expenses, as well as generating huge new costs for security and insurance. "All Sept. 11 has done was accelerate the inevitable," said Jonathan Ornstein, chairman of Mesa Air Group, which operates short-distance flights for US Airways and America West. "We have a clear imbalance of costs and revenue. No business can operate like that long term."
The industry's horrendous financial condition may present difficult choices to Washington, which faces the prospect of becoming more involved in the airline business than at any time since deregulation two decades ago. The government must grapple with the competing interests of passengers, the industry's employees and the companies themselves, which cannot survive if they cannot eventually make a profit.
Any option that benefits one group may damage another. Allowing carriers to merge, for example, could improve the industry's financial outlook by reducing competition and giving airlines more pricing power. But more pricing power for companies translates into higher fares for travelers, who want frequent and cheap flights.
On the other hand, the government could try to force labor concessions as a condition for federal aid. Wages are airlines' biggest expense, equal to nearly 40 percent of the industry's revenue -- more than fuel, airplanes and taxes combined.
Cutting labor costs is crucial to the industry's long-term health, Mr. Walsh said. Wages have recently increased far faster than the inflation rate. Last year, for example, pilots at United won a new contract that gave many of them an immediate 29 percent wage increase, and American and Delta have agreed to meet that standard. A senior 747 pilot at United -- a top-of-the-line job -- can now make $450,000 per year, one airline executive said. 
"Any revenue that gets generated just gets sucked up immediately by labor," Mr. Walsh said.
But pushing for salary givebacks would put Washington at odds with the industry's powerful unions, which are not anxious to give back wages and benefits they have won at the bargaining table.
EVEN so, the government has little choice but to help put the industry on firmer footing somehow. Passenger and cargo airlines, which had $130 billion in revenue last year, employ 680,000 people and support millions more jobs in the travel and tourism industries.
Already, in a nearly unprecedented gesture of direct aid to private companies, the federal government has agreed to provide $5 billion in grants and another $10 billion in loan guarantees to help the industry through the post-Sept. 11 turbulence. If lawmakers ladle out more aid, they may strengthen other struggling industries' expectations of government assistance.
But even the aid already pledged will not keep airlines from running huge losses this year and next, according to the Air Transport Association, the industry's trade group, and independent analysts. Before the terrorist attacks, airlines were expected to lose about $3 billion this year. Now they will lose at least $7 billion, and possibly considerably more, even after receiving the government grants, said David Swierenga, chief economist for the trade group.
"Between now and the end of 2002, the U.S. airline industry is going to take in about $28 billion less than it otherwise would have," said Michael Boyd, an aviation analyst. Meanwhile, tighter security and higher insurance premiums will cost carriers at least $5 billion more each year, an expense that will be only partly recouped by a new security tax that will add up to $10 per ticket.
Mr. Walsh estimated the industry needs about $30 billion in aid and loans, double the amount already committed, just to stay afloat until traffic returns to normal. For that aid, he said, the government should demand that employees make concessions to put the industry on firmer financial footing and encourage airlines to build truly national networks by competing at each other's hub airports. Otherwise, he said, the necessary restructuring will take place through bankruptcy, a more expensive and disruptive process.
"We know that airplanes are going to fly the skies of the United States," Mr. Walsh said, but "there is no industry that can fly forever losing billions of dollars."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delivering a message to the President in September. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); OLIVER WYMAN GROUP (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



670 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Leasing, if not Building, an Anti-Taliban Coalition

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
LOGIC might dictate that impoverished Pakistan, perhaps the world's leading supporter of Afghanistan's Taliban regime until Sept. 11, would not rank high in the Washington's eyes these days. Of course, logic would be wrong. 
 Since that black day, Washington has rescheduled $396 million of Islamabad's debt; approved a $300 million line of credit for prospective investors in Pakistan; and offered $73 million to patrol Pakistani borders and $34 million to fight drug trafficking. On Thursday, Washington gave Pakistan $600 million in foreign aid to address the impact of a terror-induced global recession. 
 No longer quite so impoverished, Pakistan asked for permission to buy United States F-18 fighter jets, too. Washington reluctantly drew the line there.
Nobody makes bones about why Washington is doing this: it needs Pakistan's help, and badly, to defeat Pakistan's erstwhile Taliban friends. It is a glittering instance of what diplomats call coalition-building: assembling often-unlikely alliances of foreign cats and dogs to back a desirable American goal.
A mistier-eyed idealist, pondering the rain of gifts pelting Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and other new-found American allies these days, might be tempted to say Washington has not built a coalition so much as bought one. 
But that is inaccurate. Buying implies ownership. What is going on in the antiterror alliance these days is often more akin to a short-term lease. 
"I'm not sure were going to need Uzbekistan in six months," Morton I. Abramowitz, a senior Pentagon and State Department official in the 1970's and 1980's, said last week. "But Pakistan? We need them. Six months ago, we wouldn't have given Pakistan $900 million. In fact, we were boycotting them."
But if every American ally were a Britain, steadfast and true, there would be no need for coalitions: they would already exist. Instead, President Bush's proclamation that fighting terrorism is an us-versus-them matter -- that nations, in American eyes, are either little Britains or Afghanistans -- is laudable principally as rhetoric.
As Pakistan demonstrates, messy reality is something else. "We have to go back to the basic principle of diplomatic relations -- that nations don't have permanent friends; they have permanent interests," said Toby Gati, the State Department's top intelligence official during part of the Clinton administration. "And coalitions are not permanent."
For proof, consider what might be called the first Afghan coalition: the so-called United Nations "six plus two" group. Here, around one table, were the United States, Russia and the six nations bordering Afghanistan. Among the six, the United States did not formally talk to one, Iran, and Russia did not jibe with another, Pakistan, though still another of the six, China, did. 
Indeed, none but Russia had much in common with the others save antipathy toward the Taliban -- and even that was not universal. For real unity, it took an attack on the United States, and the money and influence that only America can currently muster.
Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, also has a shopping list. Russia has thrown its moral and political support to the American cause.And Washington has come through with much that Mr. Putin desires -- it has muted criticism of abuses by Russian armed forces in Chechnya, a major irritant to Moscow; and hinted broadly that closer military and political ties to the NATO alliance are in the wings. Moscow also seems destined to win quicker accession to the World Trade Organization and broader American trading rights -- all for denouncing the Taliban and using its influence to pry open central Asia military bases for American use.
Six months ago, the United States was publicly flaying the human-rights records of Uzbekistan, another Afghan neighbor. In the last two months, American foreign-aid officials have barnstormed here and elsewhere in Central Asia, giving Uzbekistan $6 million to clean up a Soviet germ-warfare site and Tajikistan $28 million in drought-relief aid, among other bestowals. 
As for human rights, the latest State Department report on religious freedom does not even list Uzbekistan as a country of concern, despite a systematic campaign of jailings and torture of devout Muslims regarded by the Uzbek leadership as as security threats.
In its private moments, Pakistan had good reason to back the Taliban: it brought a perilous sort of stability to a historically volatile border. It was the promise of American aid -- and the threat of an American alliance with India, Pakistan's sworn enemy -- that persuaded President Pervez Musharraf to throw his nation's lot in with Washington in the Afghan battle.
INDIA wants to join the coalition because America's denunciation of terror is a handy crowbar against what it sees as Pakistani-inspired terrorism in Kashmir. Saudi Arabia, another font of Taliban support, wants to join, in part, because it hopes American intervention will solve the Gordian knot that prevents peace between Israel and Palestine.
Yasir Arafat hopes a link to the coalition will give him a stronger hand in the Israel-Palestine peace process, which Mr. Bush seems to have delivered in a speech last week in which he referred to Palestine as a potentially independent state. Israel, for its part, is putting a lid on responses to attacks on its citizens to preserve crucial American support for its negotiations toward a peace.
The United States, for its part, is sometimes seen as exploiting the weaknesses of smaller states to enhance its own power. But true as that may be, it is often the case that smaller nations try to align themselves with American causes to reap the diplomatic dividends of being aligned with a superpower -- or in some cases, to get a piece of the financial action.
Americans do not accept United Nations payment to serve in international forces, for example, but many nations do -- and profit from the experience. "It's not for nothing that Jordan always volunteers," said Frances Cook, an American ambassador to Oman during the Clinton administration. "There is a reason."
Perhaps that sounds crass, the notion they are buying whatever support they need. On the other hand, maybe it should not. Coalitions are not marriages, especially in wartime.
"We have no choice but to succeed," said Edward C. Luck, director of the Center on International Organization at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. "President Bush put us way out on a limb, and we have to make sure it doesn't get cut off."
Looking at it that way -- in the flinty-eyed world of international diplomacy, as opposed to the utopia of misty-eyed idealists -- perhaps the rent on America's short-term lease in the Afghan conflict isn't that steep.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A young Afghan at a refugee camp in Pakistan last week. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALIBAN (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); BOYCOTTS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); DOGS (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (56%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); RECESSION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); CATS (52%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



671 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Economic News Helps Stocks, Not Bonds

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied and bonds plunged last week as investors digested some positive reports about the economy. Inflation at the consumer level declined last month, retail sales surged after falling in September, and weekly initial unemployment claims slowed. 
 All this news led some investors to conclude that the economy might not be as troubled as it appeared to be in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. That was good for the stock market, but very bad for the many bond investors who had been assuming the worst. 
 For the week, the Nasdaq composite index rose 70.10 points, or 3.8 percent, to 1,898.58, while the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 258.99 points, or 2.7 percent, to 9,866.99. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 18.33 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,138.65.
 But bond prices tumbled while yields, which move in the opposite direction, soared. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note rose to 4.85 percent, from 4.31 percent a week ago, the biggest weekly move in percentage terms since the note was first regularly issued 25 years ago. The jump in rates also showed that many investors no longer expect Federal Reserve policy makers to cut short-term interest rates when they meet next month. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Two charts on the DataBank page of Money & Business on Sunday showing the weekly change in some bond yields and in some foreign stock indexes were a week out of date. Corrected charts appear today, on Page C9.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" AMRNYSE: AMRThe stock of the parent company of American Airlines, along with other airline companies, rebounded on factors including lower oil prices and passage of the aviation security bill.Friday's Close: $20.06Week's Change: +10.65%EST. '01 P/E: -- DynegyNYSE: DYNAs part of its planned $9 billion acquisition of Enron, Dynegy will receive the right to acquire Northern Natural Gas, a potentially lucrative pipeline system, even if the larger deal is not completed.Friday's Close: $42.47Week's Change: +9.57%EST. '01 P/E: 20.29 Home DepotNYSE: HDThe nation's largest home-improvement chain said its third-quarter profit rose 20 percent over the year-earlier period.Friday's Close: $45.80Week's Change: +8.76%EST. '01 P/E: 36.03 Dell ComputerNNM: DELLRebounding from a loss in the second quarter, Dell reported a third-quarter profit of $429 mil lion. The company also predict d that PC sales would increase later this year.Friday's Close: $26.60Week's Change: +3.30%EST. '01 P/E: 41.05 SunGardData SystemsNYSE: SDSAn appeals court rejected the government's effort to stop SunGard from buying a unit of Comdisco, which filed for bankruptcy protection in July, while an antitrust investigation proceeds.Friday's Close: $28.64Week's Change: +9.56%EST. '01 P/E: 32.11 YahooNNM: YHOOWall Street analysts expressed confidence in the turnaround prospects of the company after it outlined plans to increase fee-based revenue and to reduce its work force.Friday's Close: $15.47Week's Change: +12.76%EST. '01 P/E: 309.40 Philip MorrisNYSE: MOPhilip Morris says it plans to change its name to the Altria Group, pending approval by shareholders.Friday's Close: $48.13Week's Change: +2.78%EST. '01 P/E: 11.90 CV TherapeuticsNNM: CVTXThe biotechnology company said clinical trials of ranolazine showed that the drug, which it developed, was effective in treating the chest pain of angina.Friday's Close: $51.67Week's Change: +48.97%EST. '01 P/E: -- (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



672 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Easing the Pain of Recession 

 BODY:
Economists have begun to agree that what we are now calling a recession began as long ago as last March. This will not be news to the people likeliest to be hurt by any economic downturn those who work close to the economic bone. They have been feeling the sting of things for a long time now. A paycheck-to-paycheck existence is always a precarious one, and especially when the paycheck is barely sufficient. All across this city, hard-working families have found that hard work just isn't enough. As the economy has soured, even the most basic aspirations of many families -- decent shelter and food, education, medical care -- have become impossibilities. 
 In a sense, the destruction of the World Trade Center revealed a familiar pattern in economic decline. It took some time before it became clear just how many low-income jobs were lost in the wake of that disaster, simply because those jobs tend to be hard to see, hard to count, even in good times. In the past weeks and months, the economic news has been led by reports of layoffs at major corporations. But those are only the jobs that are easy to count. Behind them there is a population of men and women who find themselves brought by hard times to a harder place than they ever imagined having to occupy. They are our neighbors. 
 The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund helps redeem the hopes of many people who have found themselves against the economic wall through no fault of their own. To do so, it relies on contributions from the readers of The New York Times. The charities supported by the fund are the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; the Children's Aid Society; the Community Service Society of New York; the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and the UJA-Federation of New York. Your contribution can be sent to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or made online at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CHARITIES (86%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



673 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Oil-Hog Cycle

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
The price of crude oil, which was around $30 per barrel earlier this year, plunged last week to as little as $17, with warnings that it could go still lower. Alas, it's all too likely that today's oil price plunge will set the stage for tomorrow's oil price surge, in a repeat of a cycle that has been a major source of world instability these past three decades. Intelligent policies could break this cycle, but our actual policies seem, if anything, likely to make the cycle worse. 
 The good news is that cheaper oil provides a significant boost to our economy. The fall in oil prices transfers money at the rate of about $100 billion per year from Arab sheiks, Texas millionaires and other people who don't need the money to ordinary citizens. This will do far more for the economy than those giveaways to corporations and the wealthy that some politicians are trying to justify in the name of stimulus. 
 So what's not to like about cheap oil? For one thing, it may undermine some of our shakier allies. Everyone now realizes that Saudi Arabia, with its growing debt and soaring population, is an Afghanistan waiting to happen; a falling oil price brings the day of reckoning that much closer. It's less widely realized that Russia also depends crucially on sales of oil and natural gas; the relative stability and prosperity since Vladimir Putin came to power have arguably been the product more of high oil prices than of his leadership skills.
Beyond this, an oil glut now can all too easily produce an oil crisis later. Economists used to talk about something called the "corn-hog cycle"; since 1970 the world has suffered from something similar, but involving oil and S.U.V.'s rather than maize and porkers. Call it the oil-hog cycle.
Start with a world awash in cheap oil, as in the early 1970's or the early 1990's. This cheap oil encourages profligate consumption, including the purchase of gas-guzzling vehicles. As world demand for oil grows, the supply comes increasingly from the Persian Gulf, which has most of the world's oil reserves. At some point a handful of producing nations realize that they control the market's swing capacity -- that if they cut their production, they can drive prices far higher. And they do. 
High prices, however, eventually undermine the oil cartel's power. They are a drag on world growth, they lead to increased production in non-cartel nations, and sustained high oil prices lead to a lot of conservation. Oil consumption in the United States peaked in 1979, then, thanks to higher prices, declined more or less steadily until the dawn of the S.U.V. era.
As demand shrinks and competing production rises, the cartel must follow its initial production cuts with further cuts, or watch the price of oil plunge again. Eventually it can cut no more, and the world is once again awash in cheap oil, ready to begin another cycle.
And that's the stage we have now reached. The oil cartel, faced with declining demand, is no longer willing to reduce production as other producers, Russia in particular, expand their exports. So the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has made any further production cuts contingent on matching cuts elsewhere. In effect, the cartel is demanding that Russia become a de facto member, much as Mexico did in 1998. If this game of chicken succeeds, prices will go back up again soon; if the game fails, prices will fall even further. Either way, the oil-hog cycle will eventually repeat itself.
If we were wise, we would try to break out of the loop. What would this involve?
The most obvious thing is to prevent another dangerous surge in oil consumption. And it so happens that conservation policies would be politically easier to implement now than at any time in recent memory. We've just had a vivid reminder of the dangers of dependence on Middle East oil supplies. One major conservation step -- closing the loophole that exempts S.U.V.'s from mileage standards -- would be easy to justify. And new technologies that promise much higher fuel efficiency at minor expense, like hybrid gas-electric cars, are already available.
All we need is some leadership. Will the Bush administration drop its fixation on drilling in the Arctic -- which would produce too little oil, too late to make any difference -- and realize that conservation isn't just a "sign of personal virtue" but a way to make the world more stable? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CARTELS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (54%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



674 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Survey Finds Bonds Mystify Investors

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
The vast majority of investors don't understand bonds, and the confusion appears to be deepening, a survey shows.
Only 4 of 750 people could correctly answer all 10 questions on a basic quiz about bonds in a telephone poll commissioned by American Century Investments. 
 The survey found that only 27 percent were able to answer at least half of the 10 questions correctly, compared with 35 percent in a survey in 1998. 
 In this year's poll, 29 percent said bond prices rose when interest rates rose -- the wrong answer. Only 31 percent correctly said that that bond prices fell when interest rates rose. 
"Even in a year when U.S. bond mutual funds are expected to outsell domestic stock funds, there continues to be a high degree of confusion and mystery surrounding bonds," said Colleen Denzler, vice president and senior portfolio manager of American Century Investments.
Only 20 percent of investors understood that the lower a bond's credit rating, the higher the amount of interest it pays.
Almost 30 percent of investors indicated that they avoided bonds because they were difficult to understand, and 31 percent said they would not invest in a bond mutual fund for that reason. The respondents were the primary or joint decision-makers for investment issues in their households.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BONDS (91%); BOND FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



675 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Whose Pain Is It, Anyhow? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Hands Out, Even in a Time of Crisis" (Market Watch, Nov. 4) described the big-business push for special favors after Sept. 11, including a repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax. 
But it is no surprise that even in times of national distress, big business acts as if it, not the nation, is the aggrieved party -- and that it seeks preferred treatment in Washington. 
 This is a particular paradox for a nation that worships the so-called free market. I hear no libertarian ideologists hollering about big-business preferment. After all, they would be criticizing their paymasters.

DAVID C. WHITE
Brooklyn, Nov. 5


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TERRORISM (85%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM 

PERSON: WHITE, DAVID C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



676 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: A New Generation Gap? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Crisis Through a Generational Lens," (Seniority, Nov. 4), which described baby boomers as not as prepared as older generations for dealing with Sept. 11: 
 Perhaps fear has immobilized some of us boomers, but we were quick to respond as volunteers and with contributions after the attacks. 
Perhaps we are the "me" generation, trying to cope with the angst of aging, but we are also the "sandwich generation," caring for our aging parents as well as our children, both young and not so young as the weakening economy has forced so many grown children back home.
I hope the new respect being shown to our elders in this crisis has a long-term positive effect -- such as a higher regard for life experience, less emphasis on a culture obsessed with youth, and a re-evaluation of our personal and national priorities.

JUDY MASSEY
Manhattan, Nov. 5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); AGING (87%); HIJACKING (87%); TERRORISM (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); TRENDS (66%) TERRORISM; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VOLUNTEERS; PHILANTHROPY; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



677 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS; 
The Green Revolution: It's Also the Color of Money

BYLINE:  By Pete Bodo 

 BODY:
Advocates for roadless wilderness and similar conservation issues have traditionally emphasized the ethical imperatives and aesthetic rewards of promoting environmentalism. But, perhaps noticing that money is green, too, a growing, hardnosed component in the environmental community, often led by constituents in the outdoor industry, is hammering out a different kind of message: that there are great practical, economic benefits to protecting the environment, and in promoting outdoor recreation. 
 In a study that will be released next week, "The Bottom Line: Protecting the Value of America's Public Lands," Business for Wilderness, a program of the Outdoor Industry Association, quantifies the economic impact visitors have on a wide range of communities near recreation areas. These are not all A-list areas, like Montana's Glacier National Park or Florida's Everglades, either. Yet many of them generate significant, steady revenue, often for distressed rural communities. The report also identifies the prime threats posed to such areas by proposed activities such as mining, development and acid rain pollution. 
 The Business for Wilderness program ultimately seeks to increase the recreation industry's profile and its involvement in decisions about United States public land. Its goals include protecting wilderness (and roadless) areas, expanding the number of national recreation destinations and protecting public access.
 "We want to get the public to understand the economic benefits as well as the simple joys of getting out, perhaps with the family, to enjoy the outdoors," said Tom Adams, executive director of Business for Wilderness. "In doing that, we'd also like to lay to rest the damaging myth that the only thing environmentalists contribute to society is lawsuits. If we can connect and coordinate our efforts with like-minded companies out there, we'll be that much more effective in getting that message out." 
In the past, conservation groups have made similar attempts to demonstrate the dollars-and-cents value of activities and places whose primary values are anything but material (in a 1995 study, Trout Unlimited estimated that the Beaverkill watershed generated $10.1 million for the local economy). And individual companies, including industry giants like Orvis, Patagonia and REI, have made significant contributions to conservation causes (for example, Orvis's corporate mission statement includes a specific, economic and ethical mandate to support conservation projects and organizations). 
Along similar lines, Business for Wilderness hopes to consolidate various resources of the self-interested parties in "human-powered" recreation, an industry that includes activities as diverse as kayaking and rock climbing but not fishing and hunting. Still, even excluding those vastly popular pursuits, the industry generated more than $18 billion in revenues in 2000 -- $213 million from the sale of hiking boots alone. 
It is easy to understand that whitewater enthusiasts on Idaho's famed Salmon River helped to earn $120 million and contributed heavily to the creation of 5,980 jobs in rural Blaine County, Ore. But it's also true that whitewater recreation and tourism around -- among other places -- the Ocoee and Chattooga Rivers generated $51.62 million annually for rural Polk County, Tenn., and Swain County, N.C. 
And in Southern California's Arc of Wilderness, an area easily accessible to the dense population nearby, the Cleveland, San Bernardino and Angeles National Forests annually attract 32 million visitors; the average visitor spends $52.15. All told, visitors spend more than $1.6 billion annually within 50 miles of the park. 
Currently, the Salmon is threatened by mining, the Ocoee and Chattooga are threatened by restrictions on river access, poor water quality and the loss of old growth forest, and the Arc of Wilderness is subject to pollution, rapid urbanization and user conflicts.
 The 150 constituents of Business for Wilderness range from small boutique companies like Black Diamond, which manufactures high-quality climbing gear, to large businesses like the backpack maker Jansport. Tom Adams estimates that the human-powered recreation industry consists of some 4,000 businesses, and the program's target is to get 1,500 on board by the end of 2002. Unlike the Conservation Alliance, an Outdoor Industry Association program that has contributed more than $3 million to grass roots environmental groups since its inception in 1989, members of Business for Wilderness will not be required to make financial commitments to the organization. 
"We mostly want the time, interest and energy of people," Adams said, "so they can advise and help us expand the environmental ethic in the industry, and help us publicize the economics of recreation."
Adams said one of the more beneficial aspects of the recreation industry is that it adds components of diversity and slow but reliable and sometimes recession-proof growth to local economies. "Newspapers have noted how people have been flocking to national parks and other outdoor areas in the wake of the terrorist attacks," Adams said. "So I think we're also providing or taking part in a service that helps people get through tough times. It's hard to publicize this, but the outdoors are always there, through good times and bad. And a lot of us go there to seek silent reflection and spiritual renewal, especially in troubled times."
Clearly, the bottom line is -- but is not always -- about money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDERNESS (91%); ETHICS (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FISHES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); HIKING (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); ACID RAIN (72%); CLIMBING (72%); RIVERS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%) WILDERNESS AREAS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS FOR WILDERNESS; OUTDOOR INDUSTRY ASSN 

PERSON: BODO, PETE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



678 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3707 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TERRORISM FIGHT; 
Civil Liberty vs. Security: Finding a Wartime Balance

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER; This article was reported and written by Tara Bahrampour, David Firestone, Warren Hoge and Kevin Sack, with Ms. Toner.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
The recent expansion of executive power in the legal fight against terrorism reflects a powerful conviction in the Bush administration that it is fighting acts of war, not mere crimes, on American soil.
 This is the principle behind the administration's proposals to establish military tribunals to try foreigners accused of terrorism; to track down and question thousands of immigrants who have entered the United States in recent years, mostly from Middle Eastern countries; and to monitor conversations between some people in federal custody and their lawyers. 
 The administration is convinced that the public is on its side and shares the view that, as one White House official put it, "it's a new reality." The old rules, the old legal and law enforcement cultures, have to change, officials argue, to prevent future attacks and to prosecute terrorists in ways befitting their acts.
"The mass murder of Americans by terrorists, or the planning thereof, is not just another item on the criminal docket," Vice President Dick Cheney told a cheering audience of conservative lawyers on Thursday. "This is a war against terrorism. Where military justice is called for, military justice will be dispensed." 
Civil liberties advocates argue that the administration's proposals are far too sweeping. And even some members of Congress who are deeply sympathetic to the administration's ends are beginning to rebel at its means. "I don't know when, in the last 20 years, I've heard so many members of both parties come up and say, what the heck is going on?" said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Attorney General John Ashcroft has been asked to appear at Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on these matters after the Thanksgiving recess. Page B7. 
But administration officials are determined not to let their hands be tied by the traditions of normal legal procedure or the rules of criminal law. In fact, frustrations over the legal complications of pursuing accused terrorists in the courtroom formed the basis for President Bush's order allowing the use of military tribunals, officials and outside analysts say.
Among the advocates of this approach was William P. Barr, who served as attorney general during the previous Bush administration. He said he became convinced of the benefits of military tribunals when he was confronting the 1988 bombing of Pan American Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in which 270 people died. But the two men accused, both Libyans, were ultimately tried under Scottish law, and the outcome -- only one of the men was convicted -- was frustrating to many in law enforcement.
"I've talked to a number of prosecutors who personally feel that it's very, very hard to do these cases with our system, because of different evidentiary constraints and because of the degree of disclosure you have to make of sensitive information," Mr. Barr said in an interview. "What I don't understand about the civil libertarians is, if our boys did something wrong in this conflict, they'd be tried in a military court. An Al Qaeda terrorist shouldn't have any claim to different procedures."
Prevention has been another guiding principle for the administration, officials say. For example, Mr. Ashcroft, in an interview on Friday, defended his order to monitor some conversations between selected inmates and their lawyers on those grounds. Noting that it would apply to only a tiny number of people, he said, "Let's be clear about what it is: designed to keep people from continuing to perpetrate crimes through their lawyers' sometimes unwitting cooperation, by using the lawyer as a conduit for information and instructions or a means of signaling to individuals outside."
Similarly, administration officials said the interviews ordered this week with about 5,000 recent immigrants, mostly from Middle Eastern countries, were intended to develop information that could be helpful in thwarting future attacks. "I think it's just a combination of wanting to cross every 't' and dot every 'i' in the effort to prevent an attack, and everyone believes there is a lack of intelligence information and human asset information," said a senior official in a United States attorney's office in the West. "This might not be the best way to change that, but if you interview 5,000 people and get 50 informants, that would be great. It would be 50 more than we have now."
White House officials ritually deny that public opinion plays any role in their decisions. But they clearly believe the public is so angry and so alarmed by the terrorist attacks that they will grant substantial leeway to the executive branch. 
"The public wants to be tough on criminals generally, and feels more should be done to protect the rights of victims, and this would be more so with foreigners and even more so for foreigners suspected of terrorism," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center. Still, he said, "If we get to the point where there are real questions about fairness, the public has the ability to draw lines."
In Congress, the concern, particularly over the lack of consultation in these executive orders, is bipartisan.
Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said, "Our government functions at its strongest when there's agreement between the legislative and executive branches, and this Congress has gone far far out of its way to back up this president." Yet, Mr. Specter said, he knew nothing about the military tribunal order until news accounts appeared.
And Representative Bob Barr, the conservative Georgia Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said on Friday, "These changes are so vast and fundamental, the House must hold hearings in the very near future, before we adjourn for the year." Such changes, without Congressional scrutiny, "will likely set precedents that will come back to haunt us terribly," he said.

The Historical Precedents
Precedents were set long ago, making Mr. Bush only the latest of many presidents to restrict civil liberties in wartime. During almost every major conflict dating back to the Civil War, presidents including Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt have placed national security above aspects of personal liberty or constitutional rights, almost always with the support of both the public and the courts.
There were no significant public objections, for example, when Roosevelt approved the detention of thousands of American citizens from Japanese families during World War II. When Lincoln subjected Confederate sympathizers in the North to military justice during the Civil War, he was widely cheered by Northern supporters.
"It is generally the case that in times of fear, people place security above all, and they are quite willing to cede to the government extraordinary authority," said David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University who often represents foreigners detained by the government. "We love security more than we love liberty."
Lincoln encountered little resistance when he suspended the right of habeas corpus in 1861, depriving prisoners of the right to an explanation for their incarceration. He even won support from New York newspaper publishers that year when his aides banned the distribution of pro-Southern papers.
"Remarkably, other New York papers did not rally round the sheets that were being suppressed," wrote Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist in "All the Laws but One," his 1998 study of civil liberties in wartime. "Instead of crying out about an abridgement of First Amendment rights -- as they would surely do today -- their rivals simply gloated."
The incident that was uppermost on the minds of Bush administration officials in setting up tribunals took place in June 1942, when Nazi Germany dispatched eight saboteurs to this country to blow up war industries, four landing by submarine at Amagansett Beach, on Long Island, and four at Ponte Vedra Beach, in Florida. After the men were caught, President Roosevelt ordered them tried by a military tribunal for war crimes, with no access to civilian courts and juries.
Lawyers for the men persuaded the United States Supreme Court to hear their case, noting that one of the Germans was the son of naturalized American citizens. But a unanimous court ruled that both citizens and noncitizens lose the protections of the American legal system when they become enemy agents in wartime. Six of the men were executed by military courts; two were given prison sentences after cooperating with authorities, and later paroled.
In World War I, thousands of Communists, anarchists and pacifists were jailed for their beliefs under the Espionage and Sedition Acts championed by Woodrow Wilson. In the period's best-known case, Charles T. Schenck, a Socialist Party leader, was convicted of writing and distributing leaflets urging young men to resist the military draft. The case produced Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes's famous 1919 ruling that sometimes speech poses a "clear and present danger" of causing an evil that Congress has the right to prevent.
Constitutional scholars say that the Supreme Court's unanimous ruling against Mr. Schenck fit the pattern of judicial support for the restriction of civil liberties during wartime.
"Sometimes we try to delude ourselves into thinking that the courts will protect us from our worst inclinations," said Michael J. Klarman, a professor of law at the University of Virginia, who has written extensively on the history of civil liberties. But in fact, he said, "the justices are part of the same culture that is willing, in times of war, to trade civil liberties for security."
This tendency has been evident even as civil liberties expanded from the most fundamental issues of the 19th century to a broader conception of personal rights in the 20th. Perhaps the best-known, and most far-reaching, example of increasing restrictions on liberty was Roosevelt's internment of 120,000 Japanese-Americans during World War II. In 1944, two years after the internment program began, the Supreme Court ruled 6 to 3 that there was no reason to second-guess the military authorities on the matter.
"There was evidence of disloyalty on the part of some, the military authorities considered that the need for action was great, and time was short," Justice Hugo Black wrote for the majority. "We cannot -- by availing ourselves of the calm perspective of hindsight -- now say that at that time these actions were unjustified."

The New Attitude in Europe
"We can live in a world with airy-fairy civil liberties and believe the best in everybody -- and they then destroy us," a government official said last week. But the speaker was not an American. David Blunkett, the British home secretary, was succinctly reflecting the new attitude toward civil liberties that is also sweeping Europe.
Waves of arrests across Britain, Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Spain in the last two months have netted terrorist suspects and far more people, mostly Muslims, whose activities merely seemed suspicious. "People who are on the margins of suspicion have been subject to greater attention," said Michael Emerson, senior research fellow at the Center for European Policy Studies in Belgium. 
Britain, criticized by its European neighbors for being a soft touch on asylum seekers and dissidents wanted for terror offenses abroad, rushed ahead with emergency legislation allowing for their detention without trial for renewable six-month periods. The bill also empowered officials to jail uncooperative witnesses in terror investigations and to search and take into custody airline passengers who aroused suspicion.
In Paris, marines and police officers patrolling the subway were given the right to intercept travelers and search their baggage without offering a reason.
In Germany, where citizens' experiences with Nazism and Communism have left them particularly sensitive to state intrusion into private lives, the government has reintroduced the practice of computer profiling -- the search of both public and private records for patterns to help find suspects -- which was last seen when the country was fighting its home-grown Red Army Faction terrorists in the 1970's.
Interior Minister Otto Schily, who as a lawyer once represented some of those terrorists, also proposed loosening regulations on phone taps and the monitoring of e-mail and bank accounts -- in effect, giving investigators the right to pry without any stated suspicion.
The European Council in Brussels moved to create a pan-European arrest warrant and a common definition of "terrorist crime" with a penalty of up to 20 years in jail. Europol, the continental equivalent of Interpol, dropped its restrictions on sharing "personal information" with the United States and made the waiver retroactive to Sept. 11.
Crossborder cooperation on legal and judicial affairs, an elusive objective of the 15-nation Eurozone, instantly fell into place. Sluggish state procedures were jump-started. And through it all, criticism from organizations and individuals usually vocal on the subject of civil liberties was muted. "Fighting terrorism is, of course, necessary," said Gwyn Prins, a specialist on global security issues for the London School of Economics' European Institute, "but a very fine balance must be brought in to protect civil liberties."

The View From the Street
If the streets of Chattanooga are any reflection, Americans are deeply conflicted about the balance between security and civil liberties in a post-Sept. 11 world.
There are those like Jesse N. McAdoo, a 58-year-old black man who despite his own experiences with racial profiling says he believes it is utterly appropriate to question Middle Easterners. He watched the second plane hit the World Trade Center on television. "With a crime of this magnitude you have to change your whole outlook," he said.
So as for the detainees, lock them up. Secretive military tribunals for suspected terrorists? Bring them on. More surveillance and electronic eavesdropping? No problem. National identification cards? He wears an ID card already, from his employer, the Tennessee Valley Authority.
"Given what happened on the 11th, I don't think there's anything they could do that would actually be too much," Mr. McAdoo said. The simple fact, he said, is that all 19 hijackers were Middle Eastern and they probably had Middle Eastern accomplices who remain at large.
"You've got to start someplace until they find out who did it," he said of the government's decision to find and question thousands of men, mostly from the Middle East. "It might be wrong, but they've got to do it."
Just down Broad Street sat Lisa Wright, an unemployed archaeologist (no, that is not redundant, she said), who was sipping coffee and reading the newspaper outside Greenfriar's Coffee and Tea Company.
What Mr. McAdoo sees as a bulwark against terrorism, Ms. Wright sees as a slippery slope. At the moment, she said, the government has too much power to label people as suspects without exposing its evidence. And while the government is presumably well intentioned, she said, the history of constitutional abuses, from Jim Crow to McCarthyism, is littered with similar avowals.
"You've got individuals that still have their own agendas, and that makes me nervous," said Ms. Wright, 45. "Every time something happens, they take a little freedom and then grab a little more and a little more. We've let it happen to ourselves, and once you give up a freedom you don't get it back." 
Many of those interviewed spoke of the complexity of the dilemma. Several said the country's commitment to civil liberties had allowed the terrorists to enter the country and move about with ease. Something, they said, clearly had to change, and few were confident that toughened enforcement of existing laws would be enough.
And yet many also said the terrorists' goal was not simply the destruction of buildings and the murder of thousands. Their attack, some said, was also a fundamental assault on American values, and to respond by constricting constitutional rights would be equivalent to declaring defeat.
"We shouldn't bend the Constitution and the rights of our citizens just to make things easier for law enforcement," said Shane C. Petersen, 30, who was visiting from Durham, N.C. "By doing so they're aiding the terrorists in achieving their ultimate objective."
Those interviewed became more sensitive to possible infringements of civil liberties as the prospect moved closer to home.
Few, for instance, expressed much concern about Mr. Bush's plan to use military tribunals. And only a few voiced opposition to the plan to interview thousands of men.
But the mood often changed when those interviewed were asked about proposals to issue national identification cards and to give the authorities greater power to use electronic surveillance.
Jeffrey L. Rayburn, a 41-year-old engineer from Chattanooga, equated the crimes committed by the terrorists to those committed by the Nazis and said that they warranted the use of military tribunals. "There are situations when I do think you need to presume guilt over innocence," he said.
He also said he had no real objection to heightened surveillance. "We've gotten away from the down and dirty and we probably didn't have the intelligence we need to stop this from happening," he said.
But when asked whether the government should have the power to monitor e-mail communications and financial records, Mr. Rayburn drew a line. "If government accessed information on people's private lives and made it available, I'd have a problem," he said.
For many, the issue comes down to trust. Can this government, can any government, be trusted not to abuse powers that have been expanded to respond to a specific and unprecedented threat? Again, the answer shifted a bit as the implications became more personal.
"I can understand where Bush is coming from, given what happened," said Tony L. Price, 53, a warehouse driver. "But I think somewhere down the line that will be taken advantage of and they'll get into people's business."
"If the government can set rules and stick by them, that's one thing," Mr. Price said. "But the government being the government, it will cross the line."

The 'Fear Effect' and Muslims
On Friday, on a a sidewalk in Brooklyn Heights, men and boys spilled out of the Dawood Mosque, eased off their shoes and kneeled for noon prayers on the first day of Ramadan. The 56-year-old mosque, the city's oldest, attracts shop and restaurant owners wearing knit caps as well as professionals in suits.
The imam, Abdalla Allam, said that in the days immediately after Sept. 11 he was touched when non-Muslim neighbors brought flowers to offer support. But since then, many Muslims here say they have felt like targets in a larger society where "Arab" and "Muslim" are often equated with "terrorist."
As the country tries to find a new balance between civil liberties and security, these people increasingly say that, for them, things may be tipping the wrong way.
Immediately following the attack, "the fear effect was rampant," said Ahmed Jaber, a doctor who is chairman of the board of the mosque's parent institute, the Islamic Mission of America. Dr. Jaber said that a lot of women who cover themselves with traditional head scarves faced harassment or abuse.
Lately, though, some of the fear has turned into indignation.
"We are being targeted as Arabs," said Khaled Husein, a Palestinian civil engineer who has been here for 20 years. "Sentiment right now is there is some kind of discrimination. We've seen it. Maybe it doesn't resemble the Japanese after Pearl Harbor, but it's similar."
"Twenty years of building bridges to fully integrate into the system, and we feel like it's slipping," Mr. Husein added. "My gut feeling is this is going to create a backlash."
"You have to understand our background," said Dr. Jaber, noting that many Middle Easterners come from countries where officials have the power to imprison people with no pretext. Even after 27 years here, Dr. Jaber said, he still instinctively veers away from policemen. As for recent arrivals, he said: "If somebody knocks from the F.B.I. or the N.Y.P.D., they are scared to death. These are immigrant people who don't understand their rights." 
Some had experienced what they considered racial profiling even before the attacks. Muhammed Morsy, 30, a hotel worker from Egypt who arrived here in February, said he was unable to find a job until he stopped using his first name. He got hired, he said, "when I changed it to my father's name, Salah," which is "not so common" an Arab name.
Dr. Jaber called such profiling "subtle" compared with what has been happening since the attack. "If they're going to tap your phone, watch your e-mail, knock on your door, question you without legal representation, that reminds me of going back to the Middle East again, because that's how the Middle Eastern governments operate," he said.
Mr. Husein said some local Muslims had already opted to return to their countries in the wake of the attack. Neither he nor the mosque elders were aware of anyone being contacted for questioning since the Justice Department announced its plan, nor had they heard complaints from those who might fit the interviewee profile.
Some people said they had no problem with the interviews. "If it's for the purpose of obtaining information, my door's open," said Alan Abdelhack, 24, a Palestinian-American psychology student who was born in Brooklyn. 
But Dr. Jaber and others said that for some people the situation presented a dilemma. 
"Many young people aren't expressing fear, because if they say 'I'm for it,' that's a problem, and if they say 'I'm against it,' that's a problem," Dr. Jaber said. "If I am against it, it makes me look suspicious. If I am for it, that's bad because I'm bringing the investigation unnecessarily into the community. Either way, it is encroaching on my civil liberties." 
In recent days, he said, things seemed to be getting worse. "Officials come and say there's a distinction between terrorists and Islam," he said. "Publicly they say we are friends. But secretly they say, 'No, go behind them, tape them and spy on them.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: MUSLIM PRAYERS -- An overflow crowd prayed on Friday at the Dawood Mosque in Brooklyn Heights. Some Muslims said they feel like targets in a larger society where "Muslim" is often equated with "terrorist." (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Jesse N. McAdoo: Showing identification as Tennessee Valley Authority employee -- "With a crime of this magnitude you have to change your whole outlook."; Lisa Wright: Unemployed archaeologist -- "You've got individuals that still have their own agendas, and that makes me nervous."; Jeffrey L. Rayburn: Engineer from Chattanooga -- "There are situations when I do think you need to presume guilt over innocence." (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times); Japanese-Americans on their way to an internment camp in Arizona in 1942. President Franklin D. Roosevelt approved the internment of thousands during World War II. (Associated Press)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MILITARY COURTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); THANKSGIVING (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%)

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (59%) VERMONT, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



679 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Hartford's Latinos Revel In Securing Mayor's Office 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
When Hartford elected Eddie Perez mayor by a landslide two weeks ago, his victory margin was eclipsed by the sense of history being made: he will be the first Latino mayor of a capital city in New England. He opened his celebration at a Hartford bar by addressing the crowd in Spanish as salsa music pulsated and Puerto Rican flags fluttered around him.
 In Hartford, Latinos have arrived. Yet in a city where they make up 39 percent of the population, the question on many minds is what took them so long. 
 Hispanic candidates here have long been elected to offices, like state representative, that allow them to run from strongly Latino districts. But for many Hispanic voters, Mr. Perez's citywide election is a quantum leap even though the mayor's job is largely ceremonial in Hartford's "weak mayor" form of government.
"Now Hartford belongs to the Hispanics," said Juan Martinez, 31, as he left for work one morning a few days after the election. "The Latinos used to be scared to get involved and felt no one would listen. Not anymore."
Part of the reason some Latinos have felt such distance from politics can be found on Park Street, the heart of Hartford's Hispanic population. Perhaps more than any other neighborhood, it bristles with energy. On a recent morning, people flowed in and out of the stores and gathered to talk on street corners.
They stood four deep in line at Caribe Auto Parts, where the owner wears a scowl but presides over an overflowing stockroom. At El Mercado Market, there are nine varieties of yams, golden empanadillas warming in lighted cases and four Latino restaurants. At nearby Sanchez Elementary School, a health clinic is just inside the front door and a new playground is under construction.
The insularity and self-sufficiency of the neighborhood may help explain why Latinos have been hesitant to test the political waters, said Clyde D. McKee, a professor of political science at Trinity College, just up a hill from Park Street, and a student of Hartford politics since 1960.
The vast majority of the city's Hispanic people are Puerto Rican, and because they are United States citizens at birth, they do not undergo the naturalization process that helps other newcomers cement ties with their new American communities, Professor McKee said.
Many Puerto Ricans who move north continue to speak only Spanish, a decision that further insulates them, he said. They tend to travel back and forth between Puerto Rico and the continental United States, or are living here only until they can earn enough money to afford a better lifestyle back home, he said.
"Among Puerto Ricans, sometimes there is an ambivalence about being an American," he said. "For many, Puerto Rico is where their heart is."
American politics, then, would seem to hold little interest. But Mr. Perez, who was born in Puerto Rico and moved to a house on Bellevue Street in Hartford when he was 14, may change that.
"We think Eddie's going to do a good job," said Ramon Flores, an owner of El Mercado Market, who came to Hartford from the Dominican Republic in 1962. "Before him, people thought, 'Why should I vote for this person if he's not going to do anything for me?' They weren't sure their vote counted."
Puerto Ricans first came to the Hartford area in the mid-1940's for migrant work in the tobacco fields of Windsor and Bloomfield. In time, many stayed and their families followed because the economy was better than in Puerto Rico. The Latino population grew as many people found jobs in Hartford factories.
Mr. Perez, 43, has spent his career organizing neighborhoods to seek better housing, schools and jobs, but he says he has never regularly attended meetings of the Hartford Democratic Committee or the City Council. When he was in his 20's, he said, he often told people that a Latino had no chance to become a political leader in America. He still says that Hispanics come north for economic reasons and have little interest in politics.
"There was no sense of building social, economic and cultural capital as Americans," he said. "We have to begin to rebuild that foundation."
Mr. Perez became a bridge between the Park Street neighborhood and Trinity College, when he served as assistant to two Trinity presidents, as well as a neighborhood organizer in a handful of groups.
If the voters approve an overhaul of the city charter next November and the city embraces a "strong mayor" form of government, Mr. Perez said, he can again be a bridge, linking the corporate world -- which donated about $200,000 to his campaign -- to city residents.
"I do think Latinos feel they have more opportunity with Eddie in office," said Jose Guerro, 39, a meat salesman. "Maybe you'll be able to buy a house or open a store of your own."
Mr. Perez, who takes office on Dec. 4, said he was elected not as a Latino but as a leader of the community who happens to be Latino. "It's about being able to empower people, whether African-American, Italian or West Indian or Latino," he said. "I'm a neighborhood organizer, independent of who happens to live in the neighborhood."
The Perez campaign added most of the 2,000 new voters who were enrolled before the election. Hundreds came from the Park Street neighborhood, said Delia Bello, who registered many of them at Sanchez Elementary, where she is principal.
"Eddie's election is very good for the Latino people, " said Jessica Lazu, 19, as she waited to enter the Park Street branch of the Hartford Public Library. "Hopefully we'll see some difference, better schools and maybe cleaner streets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ramon Flores, a businessman, says Eddie Perez drew out Latino voters. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); NATURALIZATION (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (54%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: PEREZ, EDDIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



680 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Guests Warm Hearts in the Frozen North 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: GANDER, Newfoundland 

 BODY:
It could have been a short, sweet story: planes get diverted, local people pitch in to help stranded passengers. Polite thank-you letters and gifts follow.
 What happened in Newfoundland in one terrifying week in September was all that. But in the next two months, the story continued to grow. Here and in scattered hamlets for miles around, everyone has a part of it to tell -- how half a dozen or so isolated communities have been embraced by strangers who dropped from the sky and changed their lives. 
 Greg King was there when it started. An air traffic controller, he was on duty on Sept. 11 at Gander, once the hub of North Atlantic air travel, but now an airport that sees few commercial aircraft on the ground while still directing them overhead. Late that morning, when he was preparing for the daily "wall of airplanes" from Europe heading for arrivals in New York and other cities, Mr. King suddenly received an order to shut down the sky.
Thirty-eight planes were told to land immediately, and for a couple of hours Mr. King barely had time to call his wife and say he would be bringing strangers home for the night. At some point, he recalls, he also registered a fleeting image of an Air France Boeing 747 "bigger than the airport terminal."
Gander, a town of 10,000 people with 550 hotel rooms, had to find beds and food for 6,579 passengers and crew members. Other airstrip towns in Newfoundland and Labrador also had unexpected company, but not on this scale.
"This never happened before in the history of aviation," said Terry Parsons, chairman of the Gander International Airport Authority. Fortunately, Gander -- created as a military airfield and a trans-Atlantic refueling point in the 1930's -- has a long runway, and a disaster plan. It also has churches, service clubs, doctors and shop owners with small-town, good-neighbor values long out of date in many places, including other parts of Canada. 
"We're used to helping people," said Mayor Claude Elliott, speaking of a region that lives with rough seas, harsh weather and an uncertain economy. "I guess our biggest problem was trying to explain to people where they were."
Jake Turner, the town manager, went into action as soon as the planes started landing. Des Dillon of the Canadian Red Cross was asked to round up beds, along with Maj. Ron Stuckless of the Salvation Army, who also became the coordinator of a mass collection of food that emptied refrigerators for miles around. Employees from the local co-op supermarket arrived with a refrigerated truck full of meat and other provisions. At St. Martin's Anglican Church, Hilda Goodyear spent 48 mostly sleepless hours organizing bedding and priming the parish hall's kitchen for a Lufthansa flight. 
People from as far away as Twillingate, an island off the Kittiwake Coast of Newfoundland, prepared enough sandwiches and soup for at least 200 people and drove an hour and a half to Gander to deliver it to dazed and frightened passengers being herded off planes without luggage and under intense scrutiny. 
Responding to radio announcements, the residents and businesses of Gander and other towns supplied toothbrushes, deodorant, soap, blankets and even spare underwear, along with offers of hot showers and guest rooms. Newtel Communications, the telephone company, set up phone banks for passengers to call home. Local television cable companies wired schools and church halls, where passengers watched events unfolding in New York and realized how lucky they were.
There were some with special needs. Carl and Ethna Smith found kosher food through an airport caterer and a new set of kitchenware for an orthodox Jewish family from New York. At the Gander Baptist Church, Gary and Donna House dealt with the needs of four Moldovan refugee families, members of a religious sect who spoke no English and were bewildered by events. 
The passengers, who left with tears and hugs, have responded with their own astonishing acts of generosity. Lewisporte, a seaside town where 4,000 people made room for 773 unexpected guests, received new lighting for the Anglican church and a scholarship fund worth $19,000 "and still growing" said the mayor, Bill Hooper. 
More than $51,000 has been donated so far to Gander, a town where no one asked to be paid for their hospitality. 
Those five days in September, and the stream of e-mail messages, gifts, photographs and invitations that still pour in, have given an incalculable lift to the Newfoundlanders -- the "Newfies" who are the butt of rube jokes in the rest of Canada.
"It gave the people a sense of self-worth," said Mr. House, a retired teacher and school librarian. "Newfoundlanders have often felt put down. They speak funny. There are all those 'goofy Newfie' jokes. 
"Hey! We are all appreciated," he added. "We are good people." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (74%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); MAYORS (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (57%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



681 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Plans For Recovery, But Avoids Terror Issue 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund pressed the world's leading nations today to cut interest rates further if needed to shore up a bleak world economy, while outside the meeting globalization protesters braved the Canadian chill.
 Finance ministers and central bankers from around the world met to chart the actions the fund would take in the months ahead to try to counter an increasingly dour and uncertain global economic outlook. 
 With the fund taking center stage on the second day of international financial meetings here, the police arrested at least seven people as about 2,000 protesters, some of them burning American flags, gathered for a demonstration against the guardians of globalization and the bombing in Afghanistan. 
In a draft communique, the fund said that rich nations must take the lead in promoting growth and that most should cut interest rates further if needed.
On the hotly debated topic of whether the fund should take a leading role in the fight against terrorism, its policy-setting committee chose not to expand its mandate to become a global financial policeman.
The communique reiterated that the fund expected the world economy to begin to recover by the second half of next year. 
"The recent easing of monetary policy in the U.S., the euro area, and other advanced economies is welcome, and the committee considers that there is room for further action in most countries if required," said the draft from the fund's International Monetary and Financial Committee.
The committee, made up of representatives from the fund's 183 members, sets the organization's policy. It meets twice a year..
A heavy police presence, a modest turnout and cold weather combined to keep protests fairly subdued, although the police use tear gas in one case to control the crowd. In another incident, the police doused the crowd with water.
The protesters contend that the fund and the World Bank foist ill-suited policies on poor countries.
Inside the meetings in an old railway station that now serves as a government conference center, delegates defended globalization and the open markets it entails.
"The idea that globalization in itself leads to a worse distribution of wealth in the world is just plain wrong," said Ernst Welteke, president of the German central bank.
Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States, there has been a surge in efforts to combat the financing of extremist actions -- something the United States sees as an integral part of its broader war against terrorism.
The Group of 20 nations, a group of leading rich and emerging economies, pledged to do whatever was needed to curb the flow of funds to extremist groups.
Some had hoped the fund would adopt a leading role in that effort, helping coordinate the efforts of various watchdogs. But the communique suggested the fund was shunning the role of global policeman, for now at least. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); RIOTS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); HIJACKING (72%); ARRESTS (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); OTTAWA (ONTARIO); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



682 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Shops Near Ground Zero Were Insured, but Not Enough 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
Samuel Castro had insurance in case a customer had an accident in his Lower Manhattan hat store. But he did not have insurance to cover damage to his inventory or sales losses inflicted by a disaster. Carrying such insurance, he says, would have cost too much.
 So when the World Trade Center towers burned and collapsed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attack -- and a cloud of soot and pulverized debris invaded his store two blocks away -- there was no insurance reimbursement for his $20,000 worth of ruined headgear and for $15,000 in lost revenue from his three-week shutdown, he says. 
"I was just careless," Mr. Castro said recently. "Sometimes you don't think about the worst cases."
Throughout Lower Manhattan, small shops like Samuel's Hats, at 74 Nassau Street, and small businesses in the area's office buildings lacked insurance coverage for all or most of their losses stemming from the trade center's destruction, according to business and insurance specialists.
In some cases, the businesses had no insurance coverage at all, they say, but much more often it was a matter of not having enough insurance. A form of underinsurance, they say, was having adequate coverage in some categories but no coverage at all in other important categories.
Mr. Castro, for example, had about $1 million in liability insurance in case of injuries in his store but no coverage for business interruption or property damage caused by disaster. 
"Most businesses had some form of insurance, but based on our limited knowledge today, most were underinsured," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the local business improvement district.
He said his group did a survey of more than 400 of the thousands of retailers in the area and found that 88 percent were insured, but the vast majority were underinsured because they were not covered for business interruption. 
"These are small businesses and many have small profit margins," Mr. Weisbrod said. "They may have insured certain risks they're nervous about, like liability, which can ruin a business. Some may have had fire insurance but not insurance against other perils." He said his group had not done a similar survey of office-based businesses.
Fred P. Hochberg, a former acting administrator of the federal Small Business Administration, said that some businesses did not have business disruption insurance, but "many didn't know it exists." 
Robert Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group, said he thought that the great majority of businesses, including small ones, had coverage for property damage. But he said that the "real issue is whether they have the right amount." 
He added that "in this event, which was far more severe than one could have imagined, the answer is no."
Robert N. Waxman, a certified public accountant whose office was in one of the trade center towers, is in that category.
He had what is generally regarded as the Cadillac of property insurance -- coverage based on the cost of replacing destroyed items rather than on the prices he paid for them minus depreciation. The problem was that he had not bought enough of the insurance, he said, so that the reimbursement under his policy came to just one-third of the cost of replacing his lost furnishings and equipment.
"You never expect to have a complete, 100 percent loss," Mr. Waxman said. He declined to disclose the value of the lost property, but said: "You don't realize till you sit down and add up everything how much you have in an office. If I were to do it today, I'd have a lot more coverage."
So far, Mr. Waxman has not had to shop for a new policy, or, for that matter, for new furnishings and equipment. He is using an office in a friend's law firm while hunting for new quarters.
Mr. Castro said that he, too, had learned a lesson, and would seek more comprehensive insurance to cover property and business-interruption losses as well as potential liability damages. But he said it would mean a big increase in costs. His liability-only premium, he said, was about $1,500 a year. Adding business-interruption coverage and up to $200,000 in property coverage would raise the annual premium to about $5,000. 
He said that to make up for the uninsured losses totaling $35,000 in wiped-out sales and ruined merchandise, he would seek a grant from one of the government or private programs providing financial aid to the damaged small businesses. But this will involve negotiating a maze of programs and eligibility rules that other small-business owners in the area say have left them confused and discouraged.
Many owners in the area were also confused about their insurance, said Jeannine W. Chanes, a lawyer who represents policyholders and volunteered to provide legal advice for affected small businesses.
Some owners who sought guidance in "were shocked and traumatized and said they didn't have any insurance," she said. But it often turned out they had at least some coverage. Others, however, completely lacked insurance.
"We saw a startup company, in the computer business, that was in business six months," Ms. Chanes said. "They were intending to get insurance and hadn't gotten to it." She said the company's computer terminals were ruined when the gritty debris from the towers' collapse infiltrated its offices, but she did not know the amount of its loss.
"We're also seeing situations where the policyholders said they had asked their broker to renew their policies and the broker didn't," she said. "They might have a suit against the broker."
Like other experts, Ms. Chanes said that even large companies in the area might not have had enough insurance for "this unprecedented loss."
A study by the city comptroller's office has estimated that losses in Lower Manhattan will total about $34 billion in destruction and damage of property and another $10 billion in lost business revenues. 
The survey projected that about half the losses in each category would be covered by insurance. But the business specialists noted that large companies usually had greater resources to cope with a shortfall in insurance proceeds. 
And large companies, they said, are better at negotiating with insurance companies when insurers may insist, for example, that part of the revenue loss is not reimbursable under a business-interruption claim because it resulted from factors like the declining economy rather than from the disaster.
Meanwhile, in Samuel's Hats, Mr. Castro, said he did not want to wind up in the same position again. 
Though the costs of fuller coverage will be sharply higher, he said, "I should have it, because I don't know which way things are going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel Castro's hat store was closed for three weeks after Sept. 11. He had no insurance for ruined goods. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS INTERRUPTION INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HIJACKING (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; INSURANCE; SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



683 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: WEAPONS; 
Herat and Western Afghanistan Bristle With Arms, Raising Fears

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: HERAT, Afghanistan, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
At night here, there is the occasional sound of weapons firing, although this city has been completely under Northern Alliance control since Monday. There is no fighting, but there are plenty of arms and they are ready to be discharged in celebration or boredom or by accident.
 The commanders controlling this city and Afghanistan's west are increasingly concerned that it is coming to resemble the Wild West -- with roving bands of armed men who have time and guns on their hands and in some cases a hunger for battle. Today a shootout broke out between two groups, one of Sunni Muslims, the other Shiites, and rumors circulated that three people had died. 
 Muhammadullah Afsari, a spokesman for Ismail Khan, the commander in control here and the newly self-proclaimed governor general of the region, would not confirm or deny any deaths from the gun battle. But he did suggest the incident was inevitable. "Such things happen when lots of people are armed and things change so fast."
Two decades of war starting with the Soviet occupation and the armed resistance to it have produced an extraordinarily well-armed society. Each successive wave of civil war, often bolstered by foreign countries, has only brought more guns. They change hands when power does, and so it was this week that young men simply walked into Taliban bases and picked up guns.
"Everyone has arms right now," said Javat Yarzaday, 18. "I have one too," collected from a base.
He was speaking at the Great Mosque in Herat, a lovely tiled 13th-century creation. Mr. Khan had encouraged his followers to bring their weapons to mosques to turn them in, and about 50 were brought to the mosque today, said Gholam Sakhi, 28. But the call to bring in arms, at least at the Great Mosque, turned out to be less for disarmament than for redistribution. Mr. Sakhi said the weapons would be given to mujahedeen who needed weapons to fight. 
But since almost every man in Herat these days claims to be a mujahedeen, the fighters for tribal leaders, it is hard to tell who is entitled to carry a weapon -- so almost everyone does, it seems. And most of the fugitive warriors are poor and uneducated, with few prospects, in a country where the only real economic activity is the informal entrepreneurship of the bazaars and streets or subsistence farming on drought-dried land.
Mr. Afsari described today's fight as a "personal thing between a Shiite and Sunni group" and said Mr. Khan's forces had arrested two people. But Mr. Afsari said that "the central issue is to send armed men out of the city." 
Many of the men came from villages to take on the Taliban and have stayed. Some came after the Taliban left, looking for action, and many have just returned from exile in Iran eager to participate in their country's liberation. Some collected weapons at the border, then made their way to Herat. Others say they brought guns from Iran.
Even without conflict, the excessive weaponry has plenty of deadly potential. As two prisoners were being interviewed outside a military base today, a gun suddenly went off. A commander marched over to a young man, boxed his ears and grabbed his rifle. The young soldier had dropped it. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Proud fathers had their sons pose with weapons recently in Herat, where arms are plentiful and sometimes discharged. (Amy Waldman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); FIREARMS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); RELIGION (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); TERRORISM (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE) 

PERSON: ;WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); HERAT (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



684 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Signs Russia Is Moving Toward Economic Stability
With the Russian demand for computer hardware growing at a rate of 17 percent a year, the country has reached a crucial milepost that East Europeans attained in the mid-1990's: the status of a growing, politically stable and hopeful nation. A1

Kosovo Elects Assembly
Both Serbs and Albanians turned out to elect a new 120-seat provincial assembly that will in turn choose a president and move Kosovo closer to establishing a self-contained government. A16

Argentina's Strained Provinces
Provincial governments across Argentina are choking from their combined $23 billion debt, the product of a 41-month-old recession and of their inefficient bureaucracies, known better for corruption and political patronage than for service. A3

Mexican Official Under Fire
Human rights activists charge that Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la Concha of Mexico, once the chief of military justice, is more committed to protecting the military than exposing and stopping its abuses. A10

Aid Delivered to Sudan
In the first sustained aid effort in a decade, the Sudanese government allowed planes to ferry food to about 150,000 people of the Nuba Mountains caught in determined rebellion against the rulers of the north, and the capital, Khartoum. A8

I.M.F. Urges Rate Cut
The International Monetary Fund pressed the world's leading nations to cut interest rates further if needed to bolster a bleak world economy, while around 2,000 protesters demonstrated outside. A7

NATIONAL A20-28

Bush Team Reversing Environmental Policies
The Bush administration has proceeded with several regulations, legal settlements and legislative measures intended to reverse Clinton-era environmental policies. These include moves to allow road-building in national forests and make it easier for mining companies to dig for gold, copper and zinc on public lands. Environmental groups contend that the government, in the name of national security, is taking steps to promote business interests. A20

School Prayer in Illinois
Residents of Harvey, Ill., including the mayor and some City Council members, are pressing for voluntary prayer in public schools. A20

Fires in Appalachia
The backwoods of Appalachia are burning with scores of fires, and firefighting teams sent in from as far as Alaska and California are finding that the drought threat, severe as it is, is secondary to a wave of arson attacks. A20

Threat to Computer Merger
The Hewlett-Packard Company's bid for the Compaq Computer Corporation, the industry's biggest merger, has been troubled since it was announced. And now the deal faces a challenge from within: Walter B. Hewlett, the son of a co-founder, says he will encourage shareholders to oppose the merger. A28

NEW YORK/REGION A31-39

Hard Times Befall City Arts Institutions
New York City's 2,000 arts institutions are facing the gravest economic period since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, a result of the plunge in tourism, a decline in donations and expected cuts in the city's cultural budget. Layoffs have been announced at the Joseph Papp Public Theater and the Guggenheim Museum. A1

Giuliani Ponders Next Step
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani declined to say whether he was negotiating for a position at the accounting giant Ernst & Young, as a newspaper reported. He said that he needed time to explore several different possibilities for his career after he leaves office. A33

Neediest Cases A36

OBITUARIES A40

Melvin Burkhart
A legendary sideshow performer who billed himself as the Human Blockhead, he was 94. He earned his billing by hammering nails and spikes up his nose in front of millions of Americans in thousands of places, from the 1939 World's Fair to countless dusty midways to the Coney Island boardwalk to an Off Broadway theater just last month. A40

Albert C. Todd
A professor of European languages and literatures, he was 74. A40

SPORTSSUNDAY

Miami Remains Undefeated
The Hurricanes beat Syracuse, 59-0, bringing them a step closer to securing a berth in the national championship game. 1

Iverson Leads Sixers Past Nets
Allen Iverson scored 28 points as Philadelphia defeated New Jersey, 94-82, halting the Nets' early-season surge. 1

Chess A39
Weather A41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); MAYORS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); ARSON (68%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CITIES (66%); MINES & MINING (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); RELIGION (61%); CHURCH & STATE (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SUDAN (92%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



685 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Arts Groups Are Reeling in Wake of the Attacks 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Confronted by the plunge in tourism, a decline in charitable contributions and anticipated cuts in the city's cultural budget that are expected to be announced this week, New York City's 2,000 arts institutions are facing the gravest economic period since the fiscal crisis of the 1970's.
 The effects, large and small, are already being felt across the city. The Guggenheim Museum and the Joseph Papp Public Theater have each announced layoffs of 20 percent of their staffs: about 80 people at the Guggenheim and 20 at the Papp. The American Museum of the Moving Image in Queens raised $50,000 less than expected at its recent fall fund-raiser. A donor rescinded a $500,000 commitment to the Staten Island Botanical Garden, citing the economic effects of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 "You have a combination of too many factors too fast," said Norma P. Munn, chairwoman of the New York City Arts Coalition, a citywide arts advocacy group. "It is that sequence of events that is becoming crippling." 
The city's cultural landscape has certainly been bleak before; the recession of the early 1990's brought harsh budget cuts that forced some institutions to cut back on hours or programs. But now, the fallout from the terrorist attacks, combined with an already faltering economy, has left the city's $13 billion culture industry with a trepidation that has been unleavened by a few bright spots, like the rebound on Broadway over the last month that many producers fear will be hard to sustain. 
A survey of more than 150 of the city's arts organizations, which is to be released tomorrow, offers confirmation of the industry's worst fears.
The study, conducted over the last two months by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan policy institute that focuses on economic issues, concluded that "nonprofit arts organizations are entering their rockiest period in over 30 years." It urged Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg to make the arts a focus of the city's rebuilding effort.
Of the cultural groups surveyed, every one had suffered or expected substantial economic losses, and most had raised significantly less money than anticipated since Sept. 11. Half reported that they had seen major donations withdrawn or postponed. Also, the study said, about 2,000 school trips to arts organizations have been canceled since Sept. 11, significantly reducing revenue.
The study estimated that the average arts organization could expect a 15 percent loss in revenue this year and warned that worse might come. Even organizations that get substantial government funds still rely on private contributions for 30 to 70 percent of their budgets. And while the groups have continued to receive their foundation grants and corporate gifts this year, the study says, the value of stock portfolios is down at many foundations. Darcy Hector, program officer of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation, is quoted in the report as predicting that his and other foundations "are looking at reduced payouts next year." 
Every arts organization surveyed that had a budget of more than $5 million reported donations canceled or postponed because of Sept. 11. 
In addition, every arts organization that has held a fund-raising event since the terrorist attacks has brought in significantly less money than anticipated. Most groups that plan to hold such an event before the end of the year have reduced their expectations, the report says. 
Campaigns for new or refurbished buildings, which were proliferating just last year, "have all but ground to a halt," the study reports. 
Among the largest plans that are doggedly moving ahead are the proposed redevelopment of Lincoln Center, at a cost of more than $1 billion, and the $650 million expansion of the Museum of Modern Art. 
There is some encouraging news. While the New York Hall of Science in Queens at first expected to earn $55,000 less than the originally estimated $500,000 at its annual benefit on Nov. 29, it is now predicting proceeds of at least $25,000 more than its goal. "I think people are realizing contributions mean more now than they did in normal times," said Alan J. Friedman, the hall's director.
Still, while Broadway ticket sales have rebounded somewhat, only 15 percent of theatergoers this fall have bought their tickets at least one month in advance, according to the League of American Theaters and Producers, compared with 45 percent last fall. And producers are bracing for the winter, which is a tough season even in good times.
"I think it's going to be hard for a lot of long-running shows like 'Cabaret' or 'Phantom of the Opera' or 'Beauty and the Beast' to make it through, and it's scary," said Todd Haimes, artistic director of the Roundabout Theater Company, which produced "Cabaret." "If you take 20 percent away from that period," Mr. Haimes added, "you're talking about considerable losses."
There have already been considerable losses. Ms. Munn, the arts coalition's chairwoman, estimated that the city's arts groups lost $23 million between Sept. 11 and Sept. 30 alone. NYC & Company, the convention and visitors bureau, estimates that the city lost $357 million in tourism and $66 million in tax revenue from Sept. 11 to Nov. 4.
Arts organizations are somewhat prepared for cuts to the city's cultural budget. In October, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani asked almost every city agency to look for cuts of 15 percent and imposed a hiring freeze.
The city's Department of Cultural Affairs, which has a budget of $137 million, has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget its proposals for apportioning those cuts, which amount to slightly more than $20 million. The budget office is expected to make recommendations on the cuts this week. 
Sounding glum, Schuyler G. Chapin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs, said he was unsure how the cuts would be made. "The only thing we do vaguely know is probably before Thanksgiving, we will have our instructions about what to do," he said. "At the moment, we're sitting on our hands and crossing our fingers like everybody else." 
But Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, was not hopeful. He said the budget office had long treated "the culturals" as a drain on the economy rather than a boon to it. Culture "is not an expense, as the Office of Management and Budget has made it out to be," he said.
For several large institutions, the losses will probably be in the millions. At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where visitors are down 25 to 30 percent, a 15 percent cut from the city would mean a loss of $3.5 million in expected funds. The museum is already losing $100,000 to $200,000 a week in revenue from admissions, restaurant and shop sales and garage use. (The museum's garage has been closed for security reasons, a significant budget hit in itself.)
Because half of the Met's visitors are tourists, the financial blow has been devastating. "More than just an economic downturn like we saw in the early 90's is the combination of that on top of reduced tourism," said Emily K. Rafferty, the museum's senior vice president for external affairs. "What we don't know is how long term this is going to be."
Arts groups downtown are still suffering the most, and many of them have lost crucial income from canceled rental agreements. The Flea Theater in TriBeCa, for example, which typically operates at 90 percent capacity, was operating at 5 percent in the first few weeks after Sept. 11 and has only recently begun to climb back to 20 percent.
Theaters are offering discounts and conducting e-mail marketing campaigns. Several downtown theaters and businesses have organized as Downtown NYC! to try to promote themselves jointly. "We're saying downtown is not dangerous," said Barbara Ligeti, an independent producer who is part of the effort. "We're saying: 'It's hip and happening. It may smell bad some days, but it's not hard to get to.' "
Ms. Ligeti is a producer of "Havana Is Waiting," which opened on Oct. 27 at the Cherry Lane Theater in the West Village and is already planning to close despite strong reviews because it cannot survive in the current climate. 
The New York Foundation for the Arts, which offers grants and services to artists and organizations, has raised about $800,000 for local arts groups and artists by using grants pooled from local and national foundations through an effort it is calling the New York Arts Recovery Fund.
The convention and visitors bureau has started a discount package called Paint the Town Red, White and Blue, which includes a hotel stay, a Broadway show and dining, cultural and sightseeing options and parking discounts.
But "if we see a further diminution of income," Ms. Munn predicted, referring to groups that have experienced extreme difficulties and laid off staff, "then January, February, March, we will see closures."
An additional problem is that many of the groups have already spent funds that they anticipated receiving from the city but that will probably never arrive. The Shakespeare Project, for example, which performs Shakespeare free across the city, mostly during the summer, expected to get $38,000 from the city treasury this year and now wonders if it will see any of it, even though it has already spent the money. 
Arts groups have also had to contend with a 10 percent cut in the state cultural budget in August and the elimination of state line-item grants that State Assembly members and senators make to groups in their districts. The Staten Island Children's Museum, for example, will lose a line-item grant worth $90,000 this year -- a lot for an institution with a $1.5 million budget.
Of the arts groups surveyed by the Center for an Urban Future, every one had instituted a hiring freeze and prepared a contingency plan for work reductions, salary reductions or layoffs. Arnold L. Lehman, the director of the Brooklyn Museum of Art, where attendance is down 30 percent and which expects to see its revenues drop $1.5 million over the fiscal year that began in July, said his institution had reduced the salaries of its higher-paid employees retroactive to July 1 in anticipation of the 15 percent cut from the city.
If there is any cause for hope, it is that New York's cultural institutions are being rescued largely by New Yorkers. According to the theater league, Broadway ticket buyers are increasingly local residents; for the last two weeks, 52 percent were from the city and its suburbs, up from 39 percent a year ago. 
And some organizations that do not rely heavily on tourists, like the Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning in Queens, the Queens Zoo, the Staten Island Botanical Garden and the borough libraries, have actually seen increases in attendance, possibly because New Yorkers themselves are staying closer to home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, above, attendance is down about 25 percent, with a $100,000 to $200,000 weekly revenue loss. Attendance is also down at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, where an Egypt exhibit is being installed. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); MAYORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



686 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
W.N.B.A. Players Decide Not to Reopen Contract

BYLINE:  By LENA WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
The Women's National Basketball Association players' union decided Thursday not to reopen its contract with the league, even though several players are said to be unhappy with certain terms of the agreement, which expires next year.
 Under the 1999 collective bargaining agreement, the first in women's professional sports in the United States, either the union or the W.N.B.A. could exercise an option to reopen the contract. Each side had until Thursday. 
 Pamela Wheeler, director of operations for the union, said on Friday that union leaders were "in the process of notifying the membership of the negotiating committee's decision."
"But I can tell you that many factors contributed to the committee's decision," Wheeler said. "The committee considered myriad issues, ranging from the global economic landscape to specific player issues, and that the best and most strategic course of action at this time would be not to exercise the termination clause."
At a closed meeting in September, the players empowered a nine-member negotiating committee to study the feasibility of reopening the contract and decide on behalf of the league's 190 players whether the union should terminate it.
Several of the 100 players who attended the meeting voiced their displeasure over what they viewed as a disparity in salaries paid by the W.N.B.A. and other professional sports leagues. At the time, the union appeared determined to rework terms of the contract's marketing agreement, which many players say is restrictive.
The players also said that they had no way of telling how the W.N.B.A. was doing, financially or otherwise, because the league had never opened its books to the union or shared information about the league's finances.
Valerie Ackerman, president of the W.N.B.A., has sometimes given mixed assessments of the state of the five-year-old league.
The W.N.B.A. receives millions of dollars in merchandising and television revenues and fees from its 16 sponsors.
Moreover, it continues to exceed attendance projections, drawing a record 2,528,898 fans in 2001.
Ackerman has maintained that the league has yet to make a profit and is dependent upon its parent company, the N.B.A. 
 "One day we're hearing the league is doing great, the next, 'Oh, we're not doing so good,' " said Sonja Henning, a guard with the Seattle Storm who is president of the union. "The players want to see the books as a starting point to say, O.K. this justifies X, Y or Z. Without that, we can't go on faith because we're hearing two different things."
After the September meetings, the players asked for, and received, some financial information from the league.
It was unclear last week whether the information was enough to persuade the players to refrain from entering into a possibly lengthy, contentious negotiation.
 The union's acquiescence was even more surprising considering how strongly most W.N.B.A. players feel about the marketing arrangement in its contract with the league. Under the current agreement, players are prohibited from endorsing products that compete with the league's 16 sponsors during the regular season. The W.N.B.A. also has the right to use the names or likenesses of individual players for any sponsorship endorsement involving groups of up to three players.
Players are required to do up to 10 promotional appearances without pay during the regular and off-season. They are paid for every third appearance thereafter. The union receives a guaranteed minimum $100,000 each year for player-identified merchandise.
"The terms of the marketing agreement are very, very restrictive to say the least," Wheeler said recently. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sonja Henning, right, president of the W.N.B.A. players' union, says the league has given out conflicting information about its financial health. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (94%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); PARENT COMPANIES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (97%) WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



687 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: 21st-Century Jihad 

BYLINE:  By Ethan Bronner; Ethan Bronner, an editor at The Times, was the Middle East correspondent for The Boston Globe from 1991 to 1997.

 BODY:
 HOLY WAR, INC.
Inside the Secret World
of Osama bin Laden.
By Peter L. Bergen.
283 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $26.
 The gathering -- a sea of colored cloth, flowing robes, turbans and fezzes, of silk headscarves and pantaloons -- rose rhythmically to chants of "jihad" and "Allahu akbar" ("God is great"). Anguished lectures described an unrelenting threat from the West. It was 1995 in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, at a biennial meeting of militant Muslim groups from more than 80 countries. The theme was straightforward: the West, led by the United States, had defeated the Soviet Union through the exploitation of Muslim forces in Afghanistan. Now the Americans, with their sick culture of sex and hamburgers, were moving to phase two, establishing their hegemony as the sole and unstoppable superpower. Look around, speakers said. Palestine was overrun by Jews armed with nuclear weapons, Iraqi children were being starved, Kashmir was bleeding, Chechnya destroyed, Algeria imploding, Bosnia disintegrating. The United Nations and Amnesty International were tools of the West, the media run by Zionists. 
None of it was shocking to anyone spending time in the Arab world in the 1990's. Yet in the era of the globalizing economy, with Israel and the Palestinians making progress on a peace framework, and with the sophisticated classes of Jordan, Egypt and even Syria wearing Chicago Bulls shirts and watching CNN, the conference seemed especially pathetic and irrelevant. I was the only American reporter there, and while I was struck by the depth of the anger and the dangerous failure of the attendants to see that they were being left behind by history, I couldn't really blame my colleagues for passing it up. What future did this crowd have? As a Western diplomat based in Khartoum put it to me, the meeting was a "gathering of losers." 
Since September, we have all begun to focus more clearly on the power of such shared rage. And while Osama bin Laden was not at that conference, his name was heard often. Three years later, when he announced the formation of the "Islamic Front for Jihad Against Jews and Crusaders," the text he issued sounded like a summary of its speeches. 
Peter L. Bergen, an American-born, English-educated television journalist, set out six years ago to meet and understand bin Laden. As he says in "Holy War, Inc.: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden," completed in August and rushed into print after the Sept. 11 attack, he had wanted to get to the bottom of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Through intermediaries in London, he persuaded bin Laden to give his first television interview to the English-speaking world to CNN in 1997. The opening chapter of this engaging, well-written account of bin Laden and his organization tells of Bergen's trip with the correspondent Peter Arnett to a cave in Afghanistan to interview the man whom the State Department the previous year called "the most significant financial sponsor of Islamic extremist activities in the world today." 
Bergen has a fine eye for detail, and as we accompany him over pothole-filled paths, across chaotic borders, checking out arms bazaars and listening to bin Laden's soft cough as he proclaims that Americans are fair game for attack, we sense we are on an interesting journey with a trustworthy guide. Bergen frames several issues well that are now of some urgency to grasp. Al Qaeda, bin Laden's organization, is best understood, he says, as a multinational holding company based in Afghanistan. The traditional structure of a holding company, he points out, is "a core management group controlling partial or complete interests in other companies. Holding companies are also sometimes used by criminals to disguise their illegal activities and are often based in countries where they can operate with little or no regulatory scrutiny." 
Bergen notes the significance of 1979 in contemporary Muslim history. That was the year of the Islamic revolution in Iran, the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan and the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty. He compares the way Muslims were drawn to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan to the way socialists and fellow travelers were drawn to Spain to fight Franco's fascists in the 1930's. 
Given the hysteria and half-truths surrounding bin Laden, Bergen steers a sensible course, sorting through competing stories. He bursts the myth that the C.I.A. created bin Laden, pointing out that the agency never had a direct relationship with him and that he was anti-American from the start. He also helps elucidate what so many Muslims find attractive about bin Laden -- that he came from an immensely wealthy family and could easily have spent his time, like other rich Saudi boys, in Monte Carlo hotel suites, but chose to live in utter austerity, sleeping on floors, fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan and spending his money supporting the Muslim cause. 
Bergen offers limited psychological insight into bin Laden but he does suggest a few themes. He takes us to the rugged north of Yemen where the bin Ladens originated (the veiled, sheltered women there are so secluded, he says, that they speak their own dialect). The family had moved to Saudi Arabia by the time Osama was born in 1957, one of 50 or so children of Mohammed bin Laden, a fiercely self-directed man who went from having nothing to being a construction tycoon with contracts to expand the great mosques of Mecca and Medina. 
Mohammed bin Laden died when Osama was 10, and Osama seemed, from his university days forward, to attach himself to somewhat older men with radical, uncompromising visions. First he fell under the spell of two prominent professors of Islamic studies at King Abdul Aziz University, and in recent years has been under the influence of Dr. Ayman al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian surgeon who is widely thought to be the real brains behind Al Qaeda's operations of the past few years. The book devotes several chapters to the major bin Laden milestones of recent years -- his early contacts with the Taliban, the American Embassy bombings in East Africa in 1998 and the attack on the destroyer Cole in October 2000. 
For readers who feel they are swimming in daily newspaper articles and television reports and want a single source that brings all the background together, this readable book works well. But since many other fine journalists are now going over the same ground and offering ever more complete versions of what was known in August, for those really interested in Al Qaeda, this is more of a place to start than end. The book contains one significant failing, in my view, and that is Bergen's analysis of why bin Laden is at war with the United States. Bergen takes issue with Samuel Huntington's widely cited thesis that there is a clash of civilizations between the West and Islam. He says bin Laden has a clear and specific political agenda -- changing American policy in the Middle East. He opposes the presence of American troops in Saudi Arabia, the bombing of Iraq, support for Israel and for regimes, like those in Egypt and Saudi Arabia, that he considers apostates from Islam. Bin Laden has never, Bergen notes, railed against Coca-Cola or Madonna or homosexuals. 
But this seems a cramped, literal parsing of bin Laden's few public statements and, in the end, simplistic and unsatisfying. You do not have to accept Huntington's argument entirely to see that this battle is over more than American foreign policy. Bin Laden is the product of a generation of Arab and Muslim failure to come to terms with much of the modern world; Arab societies have imported Western gadgets and machinery but not adopted its method of inquiry. Arab discourse today is stuck between the poles of what the British-Iraqi writer Kanan Makiya has called "triumphalism and breast-beating." This means that the contours of public debate across the region remain sadly limited; education is confused with indoctrination. That, along with poverty and corruption, provides fertile ground for the rage bin Laden stokes. Until those things change, the clash championed by him and his followers will be as much cultural as it is political.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dusan Petricic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); RELIGION (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); WRITERS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); CHICAGO BULLS (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) BRONNER, ETHAN; BERGEN, PETER L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (76%)

TITLE: HOLY WAR, INC (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



688 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 6044 words

HEADLINE: What the Muslim World Is Watching 

BYLINE:  By Fouad Ajami; Fouad Ajami, professor of Middle Eastern studies at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, is the author most recently of "The Dream Palace of the Arabs."

 BODY:
Al Jazeera is not subtle television. Recently, during a lull in its nonstop coverage of the raids on Kabul and the street battles of Bethlehem, the Arabic-language satellite news station showed an odd but telling episode of its documentary program "Biography and Secrets." The show's subject was Ernesto (Che) Guevara. Presenting Che as a romantic, doomed hero, the documentary recounted the Marxist rebel's last stand in the remote mountains of Bolivia, lingering mournfully over the details of his capture and execution. Even Che's corpse received a lot of airtime; Al Jazeera loves grisly footage and is never shy about presenting graphic imagery.
 The episode's subject matter was, of course, allegorical. Before bin Laden, there was Guevara. Before Afghanistan, there was Bolivia. As for the show's focus on C.I.A. operatives chasing Guevara into the mountains, this, too, was clearly meant to evoke the contemporary hunt for Osama, the Islamic rebel. 
 Al Jazeera, which claims a global audience of 35 million Arabic-speaking viewers, may not officially be the Osama bin Laden Channel -- but he is clearly its star, as I learned during an extended viewing of the station's programming in October. The channel's graphics assign him a lead role: there is bin Laden seated on a mat, his submachine gun on his lap; there is bin Laden on horseback in Afghanistan, the brave knight of the Arab world. A huge, glamorous poster of bin Laden's silhouette hangs in the background of the main studio set at Al Jazeera's headquarters in Doha, the capital city of Qatar.
On Al Jazeera (which means "the Peninsula"), the Hollywoodization of news is indulged with an abandon that would make the Fox News Channel blush. The channel's promos are particularly shameless. One clip juxtaposes a scowling George Bush with a poised, almost dreamy bin Laden; between them is an image of the World Trade Center engulfed in flames. Another promo opens with a glittering shot of the Dome of the Rock. What follows is a feverish montage: a crowd of Israeli settlers dance with unfurled flags; an Israeli soldier fires his rifle; a group of Palestinians display Israeli bullet shells; a Palestinian woman wails; a wounded Arab child lies on a bed. In the climactic image, Palestinian boys carry a banner decrying the shame of the Arab world's silence.
Al Jazeera's reporters are similarly adept at riling up the viewer. A fiercely opinionated group, most are either pan-Arabists -- nationalists of a leftist bent committed to the idea of a single nation across the many frontiers of the Arab world -- or Islamists who draw their inspiration from the primacy of the Muslim faith in political life. Since their primary allegiance is to fellow Muslims, not Muslim states, Al Jazeera's reporters and editors have no qualms about challenging the wisdom of today's Arab rulers. Indeed, Al Jazeera has been rebuked by the governments of Libya and Tunisia for giving opposition leaders from those countries significant air time. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, for their part, have complained about Al Jazeera's extensive reporting on the misery of Iraqis living under sanctions. But the five-year-old station has refused to be reined in. The channel openly scorns the sycophantic tone of the state-run Arab media and the quiescence of the mainstream Arab press, both of which play down controversy and dissent.
Compared with other Arab media outlets, Al Jazeera may be more independent -- but it is also more inflammatory. For the dark side of the pan-Arab worldview is an aggressive mix of anti-Americanism and anti-Zionism, and these hostilities drive the station's coverage, whether it is reporting on the upheaval in the West Bank or on the American raids on Kandahar. Although Al Jazeera has sometimes been hailed in the West for being an autonomous Arabic news outlet, it would be a mistake to call it a fair or responsible one. Day in and day out, Al Jazeera deliberately fans the flames of Muslim outrage.
Consider how Al Jazeera covered the second intifada, which erupted in September 2000. The story was a godsend for the station; masked Palestinian boys aiming slingshots and stones at Israeli soldiers made for constantly compelling television. The station's coverage of the crisis barely feigned neutrality. The men and women who reported from Israel and Gaza kept careful count of the "martyrs." The channel's policy was firm: Palestinians who fell to Israeli gunfire were martyrs; Israelis killed by Palestinians were Israelis killed by Palestinians. Al Jazeera's reporters exalted the "children of the stones," giving them the same amount of coverage that MSNBC gave to Monica Lewinsky. The station played and replayed the heart-rending footage of 12-year-old Muhammed al-Durra, who was shot in Gaza and died in his father's arms. The images' ceaseless repetition signaled the arrival of a new, sensational breed of Arab journalism. Even some Palestinians questioned the opportunistic way Al Jazeera handled the tragic incident. But the channel savored the publicity and the controversy all the same. 
Since Sept. 11, I discovered, Al Jazeera has become only more incendiary. The channel's seething dispatches from the "streets of Kabul" or the "streets of Baghdad" emphasize anti-American feeling. The channel's numerous call-in shows welcome viewers to express opinions that in the United States would be considered hate speech. And, of course, there is the matter of Al Jazeera's "exclusive" bin Laden videotapes. On Oct. 7, Al Jazeera broadcast a chilling message from bin Laden that Al Qaeda had delivered to its Kabul bureau. Dressed in a camouflage jacket over a traditional thoub, bin Laden spoke in ornate Arabic, claiming that the terror attacks of Sept. 11 should be applauded by Muslims. It was a riveting performance -- one that was repeated on Nov. 3, when another bin Laden speech aired in full on the station. And just over a week ago, Al Jazeera broadcast a third Al Qaeda tape, this one showcasing the military skills of four young men who were said to be bin Laden's own sons. 
The problem of Al Jazeera's role in the current crisis is one that the White House has been trying to solve. Indeed, the Bush administration has lately been expressing its desire to win the "war of ideas," to capture the Muslim world's intellectual sympathy and make it see the war against bin Laden as a just cause. There has been talk of showing American-government-sponsored commercials on Al Jazeera. And top American officials have begun appearing on the station's talk shows. But my viewing suggests that it won't be easy to dampen the fiery tone of Al Jazeera. The enmity runs too deep.
Indeed, the truth is that a foreign power can't easily win a "war of ideas" in the Muslim world. Sure, we can establish "coalition information centers" -- as the administration has in Washington, London and Islamabad -- and dispatch our diplomats on "listening tours." We can give Al Jazeera extended access to the highest American officials and hope that these leaders will make an impression on Arab viewers. But anti-Americanism is a potent force that cannot be readily dissolved. 
What's more, Al Jazeera is a crafty operation. In covering the intifada, its broadcasters perfected a sly game -- namely, mimicking Western norms of journalistic fairness while pandering to pan-Arab sentiments. In a seemingly open-minded act, Al Jazeera broke with a widespread taboo of the Arab news media and interviewed Israeli journalists and officials, including Ehud Barak and Shimon Peres. Yet at the same time, it pressed on with unrelenting anti-Zionist reportage that contributed to further alienation between Israelis and Palestinians. 
What this means is that no matter how many Americans show up on Al Jazeera, the station will pursue its own oppositional agenda. Al Jazeera's reporters see themselves as "anti-imperialists." These men and women are convinced that the rulers of the Arab world have given in to American might; these are broadcasters who play to an Arab gallery whose political bitterness they share -- and feed. In their eyes, it is an unjust, aggressive war they are covering in Afghanistan. Watching Al Jazeera makes all of this distressingly clear.
Al Jazeera is on the ground in Afghanistan and reports the news up close. It is the only television news outlet with a bureau in Kabul. Alas, there is no skyline in the Afghan capital, no bright city lights that can illuminate America's nighttime raids. What worked so well for CNN in Baghdad has been impossible for Al Jazeera in Kabul and Kandahar. Instead, Al Jazeera's Afghanistan coverage supplies a pointed contrast between the high-tech foreign power, with its stealth planes and Tomahawk missiles, and the Taliban warriors, with their pickup trucks racing through stark, rubble-strewn landscapes.
In its rough outlines, the message of Al Jazeera is similar to that of the Taliban: there is a huge technological imbalance between the antagonists, but the foreign power will nonetheless come to grief. 
In some videotape shown on Oct. 22, a band of Taliban warriors displayed what they claimed to be the wreckage of the second American helicopter they said they had downed. There was twisted steel with American markings shown in close-up. In an interview, a Taliban soldier said triumphantly that after the first helicopter had been hit, the second came in for support and rescue, and the Taliban soldiers downed it as well. There was blood, he said, at the scene of the wreckage -- and added that a search was under way for the "remains" of the American crews. A stylish warrior of the Taliban with a bright blue turban, the soldier spoke to the camera with great confidence and defiance. America's cruise missiles and bombs would not defeat the Taliban, he promised: "If these Americans were men, they would come here and fight on the ground. We would do to them what we did to the British and the Russians." Another warrior spoke with similar certainty. "God Almighty will grant us victory," he promised. 
Al Jazeera's report was presented entirely from the Taliban's point of view. No doubts were expressed about the validity of the Taliban's military boasts -- including one soldier's claim that the steel from the American helicopters would immediately be sold off as scrap metal. The Western news media presented the same story rather differently. In addition to presenting the Taliban's claims, CNN noted a strong American denial. In the case of one helicopter, the Pentagon claimed that only the landing gear of a CH-47 had been sheared off, after its pilot flew too close to a ground barrier. And a helicopter that did crash, the Pentagon claimed, did so because of a mechanical malfunction -- not Taliban gunfire. 
A report on Oct. 30 by Al Jazeera's main man in Kabul, Tayseer Allouni, similarly underscored the ideological preference of the station's reporters. "The American planes have resumed their heavy bombing of Kabul, causing massive destruction of the infrastructure of the country," Allouni reported as his camera surveyed unrelieved scenes of wreckage and waste. Although Al Jazeera's images revealed a few craters in the street, much of the devastation appeared to be unrelated to American bombs -- potholes, a junkyard with discarded shells of cars. Noting that Kabul's notoriously decayed "roads had not been spared," Allouni then offered a wistful tribute to the Taliban's public-works efforts. "It appears that all the labors that had been made by the Taliban government prior to the outbreak of the war to repair the roads," he said sadly, "have scattered to the wind." 
As Allouni presented it, there appeared to be nobody in Kabul who supported America's campaign to unseat the Taliban. A man in a telephone booth, wearing a traditional white cap, offered a scripted-sounding lament that even Kabul's telephone lines had been destroyed. "We have lost so much," he said, "because of the American bombing." Allouni then closed his survey with gruesome images of wounded Afghans. The camera zoomed in on an old man lying on his back, his beard crusted with blood; this was followed by the image of a heavily bandaged child who looked propped up, as if to face the camera. The parting shot was an awful close-up of a wounded child's face.
The channel's slant is also apparent in tiny modulations of language. Its reporters in Kabul always note that they are reporting from the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan -- the Taliban's official name for the country. Conversely, Washington's campaign is being waged not against terror, but against "what it calls terror." 
Al Jazeera has a regular feature in which it briefly replays historical scenes and events that took place on that calendar day. On Oct. 23, the choice was an event that had taken place 18 years earlier. On that very day in 1983, a young man in a Mercedes truck loaded with TNT struck the Marine barracks in Beirut, killing 241 Americans. The segment revisited the horror of that day -- the wailing of the wounded, the soot and ruin everywhere. The images were far more horrible than any I had ever seen of the tragedy. There was no sympathy in the narration, and a feeling of indifference, even menace, hung over this dark moment of remembrance. The message was clear: the Middle East was, and is, a region of heartbreak for the foreign power. 
Al Jazeera loves the "Pakistani street" as much as it loves the "Afghan street." In its telling, the Pakistani street is forever on the boil, with "huge throngs" in Rawalpindi and Peshawar and Islamabad. One crowd in Rawalpindi was said to be particularly frenzied. Protesters angrily waved signs, some of them in English: "Afghanistan is in need of reconstruction not destruction." Anti-American demonstrations are, of course, eagerly covered by the Western news media as well. But by television standards, the Al Jazeera video was notably extended -- close to a minute long. In the clip, Islamist leaders prophesied calamity for the military ruler Pervez Musharraf. The crowd was dressed in South Asian white against the glare of the sun, and its rage seemed overwhelming. Looking at all those angry faces, it was easy to forget that General Musharraf, the ruler of Pakistan, was holding back the tide of anger in his country. The clip reached its maximum intensity when the crowd displayed an effigy of George Bush with a cardboard photo of his face. The protesters spat at the cutout, went at it with shoes. They pounded the American president to a pulp. It was a spectacle tailor-made for Al Jazeera.
Al Jazeera began broadcasting in October 1996. The preceding year, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the crown prince of Qatar, did a most un-Arab thing: he pulled off a palace coup, taking over the government from his father (who was vacationing in Europe at the time). The young ruler promptly announced a new order of things and set out to challenge Saudi primacy in the Gulf region. He hoped to underline his independence and give his small principality a voice in the world.
The young emir had good timing. Soon after he ascended the throne, an Arabic television joint venture between the BBC and a Saudi concern, Orbit Communications, foundered over the BBC's insistence on editorial independence. The Arab reporters and editors who worked on this failed venture were eager for a new opportunity. Qatar's new emir gave them a new lease on life. With his fortune footing the bill, Al Jazeera was born.
The emir's child has grown quickly. Although it is by no means the biggest Arabic television channel, its reach is expanding. Al Jazeera now reaches viewers in more than 20 Arab countries, mostly through private satellite dishes, which have become tremendously popular in the Middle East. Dishes can be purchased there for less than $100, and tens of millions of Arab families now own them. They are as common in Cairo slums as they are in Dubai mansions. Al Jazeera beams its signal free of charge to most countries. Outside the Arab world, in countries like Great Britain, it is offered as part of a subscription service. In the United States, around 150,000 subscribers pay the Dish Network between $22.99 and $29.99 a month to receive Al Jazeera as part of a multichannel Arabic "package."
Like America's own 24-hour news outlets, Al Jazeera is a repetitive affair. As with CNN, it is easy to see its luster withering away in a time of peace and normalcy. There are steady news updates throughout the day. (It is always daytime on Al Jazeera, which announces its coming schedule in Mecca time, Greenwich Mean Time and New York time.) There is a financial broadcast of the standard variety -- filmed out of London, with a source checking in from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Sports (soccer for the most part) gets its own regular report. There is a survey of the world press and a show dedicated to the secrets of the cinema. Oddly for a passionately pan-Arab channel, the station broadcasts dubbed programs bought from old American libraries: a wildlife documentary, a history of French art. 
There is little coherence to Al Jazeera's scheduling -- segments about the American bombs in Kabul and the Israeli tanks in the streets of the West Bank alternate with quaint reports on life in Silicon Valley and the patterns of energy consumption in American cities. The end result has a hectic yet anonymous feel. Al Jazeera is not a star-driven channel; no particular anchor dominates it. It's the BBC pattern, reporter driven, with a succession of reporters and anchors drawn from different Arab lands.
The pride of Al Jazeera lies, without a doubt, in its heavily promoted talk shows, like "Without Borders," "Opinion and the Other Opinion" and "The Opposite Direction." One enormously popular program in this genre is "Al-Sharia wa al-Hayat," or "Islamic Law and Life." The program, which is full of belligerent piety and religious zeal, appears every Sunday evening at 9:05, Mecca time. It is structured somewhat like "Larry King Live"; an interview with a guest is followed by questions and comments from viewers. 
One recent evening, the guest of the program was Sheik Muhammad Ibrahim Hassan, a young Islamic preacher. A large man with a bushy jet-black beard, he was dressed in a white thoub and a loose white kaffiyeh without a headband -- an exaggerated Islamist fantasy of what Muslims in seventh-century Arabia looked like. Hassan was interviewed by Hasib Maher, a young, polite Al Jazeera anchorman in suit and tie.
Hassan was fierce; it was easy to imagine him inciting a crowd. He had the verbal skills and eloquence of his homeland. (Egyptians are the people of the spoken and written word in the Arab world; the Gulfies are its silent types.) Hassan knew the sacred scripture by heart: he knew the Sira -- the life and the example -- of the Prophet Muhammad; he knew the Hadith, the sayings attributed to the Prophet. He tackled the questions thrown at him with gusto.
Al Jazeera's anchorman asked Hassan about a fatwa issued by a number of religious scholars that ruled that American Muslims were bound to fight under the flag of their country, even if this meant going to war against fellow Muslims. Hassan would have none of this fatwa. "This puzzles the believer," he said. "I say that the Prophet, peace be upon him, said that the Muslim is the brother of every other Muslim. He can't oppress his brother Muslim or bring about his surrender or abandon him to non-Muslims. Come to your brother's aid whether he be oppressor or oppressed, the Prophet taught us. No one can deny that our brothers in Afghanistan are among the oppressed." 
Hassan really knew how to milk the medium. In an extended monologue, he declared that the Islamic community, the pan-national umma, was threatened everywhere -- in Palestine, Iraq, Chechnya, Kashmir, Afghanistan, the Philippines. The umma, he said forcefully, should know its pain and heal its wounds. Then he did something you never see on "Hardball": he broke into free-flowing verse. There was no shred of paper in front of him; this was rote learning and memorization:
Oh Muslims, we have been dying for centuries
What are we in this world? . . . 
We are bloodied corpses,
And our blood is being shed.
Oh the honor of Islam,
How that honor is being violated. . . . 
We strayed from the faith,
And the world darkened for us.
If the root dies, 
The branches and the leaves will die.
Hassan now owned his airwave pulpit. He was in full flight. A look of awe stole upon the anchorman's face. The anchorman queried Hassan about the attacks of Sept. 11: Did they implicate Islam and Muslims in any way? The preacher answered in his own way. "Oppression always leads to an explosion!" he said angrily. "Under the cover of the new world order, Muslims in Chechnya and Iraq have been brutalized. . . . Any Muslim on the face of the earth who bears faith in God and his Prophet feels oppression today. If a believer feels oppression and thinks that no one listens to him and that power respects only the mighty, that believer could be provoked to violent deeds. We saw things -- horrors -- in Bosnia that would make young people turn old. . . . Where were the big powers and the coalitions and the international organizations then? Where are they now, given what is going on in Palestine? The satellite channels have spread everywhere a knowledge of this oppression."
Hassan then answered an e-mail message from a viewer. "Should we turn the other cheek, as Christ advised?" the viewer asked. "No, I say," Hassan replied. "The Islamic umma must come to the rescue of the oppressed!" 
This was soon followed by a call from a Palestinian viewer, Shaker Abdulaziz. He greeted Hassan and the host, wished them God's peace and mercy, then delivered an angry prose poem. "The wolf," he said, "should not be blamed if the shepherd is an enemy of his own flock! I saw the people, evildoers living next to evildoers, befriending the wolf and weeping with the shepherd." Abdulaziz was speaking in code, but Al Jazeera's viewers would understand his message: the false, treacherous shepherds were, of course, those Arab rulers who had betrayed their peoples and befriended the wolves of the West. 
"I greet you from the Dome of the Rock," Abdulaziz said. "A people are being slaughtered, liquidated and trampled upon. Where are the Arab rulers and armies? They do nothing!" Abdulaziz's wrath grew stronger. He challenged the show's guest preacher directly. "Is it not time for Sheik Hassan to call from this pulpit upon the Arab peoples to rebel, trample their rulers and replace them with a just ruler and the rule of the Islamic state?"
Maher, the smooth anchorman, did not challenge his guest's assertions. He did not mention, for instance, that the West had come to the defense of Muslims in Kosovo. He simply moved on. 
Next, a viewer named Hazem Shami -- from Denmark, of all places -- came on the line. "Peace be upon you," he began. "The insistence of the colonizing nations, with America as their leader, on tying Islam to terrorism is merely due to the fact that America considers Islam as the sole obstacle to its hegemony over the Islamic world. Even though Islam is a message of peace and mercy, it still refuses the hegemony of the kuffar (infidels) over the Muslims in all matters -- cultural, economic, military. Muslims should unite their countries in one Islamic state. Islam is the only challenge to world capitalism, the only hope after a black capitalist century." 
The man in Denmark had posed no question, but Hassan nonetheless took his bait. "The Jews are the ones responsible for spreading this hostile view of Islam," the preacher explained. "The Jews dominate the Western media, and they feed the decision-makers this distorted view of Islam. No sooner did the attacks in America take place, the Jews came forth accusing the Muslims, without evidence, without proof."
It was strange hearing this unyielding view of the faith and this talk of "infidels" coming from a man in Denmark. Islam, once a religion of Africa and Asia, had migrated across the globe; it had become part of Western European and North American life. But in bilad al-Kufr ("the lands of unbelief"), it had grown anxious. The caller lived in Western Europe, but the tranquil Danish world had not seeped into him. He had come to this satellite program, to this preacher, like some emissary of war. In close proximity to modern liberties, he had drawn back and, through Al Jazeera, sought the simplifications and certainties of extreme faith.
One of Al Jazeera's most heavily promoted talk shows right now is called "The First of the Century's Wars," in homage to the battle in Afghanistan. A recent episode featured three guests -- one in Washington, one in London and one in the Doha studio. Demure at first glance, Montaha al Ramhi, the anchorwoman who led the discussion, is a woman of will and political preference. She was dressed on this day in the Hillary Clinton style: an orange blouse under a black suit-jacket. I could not make out her exact nationality in the Arab world; her accent didn't give her away. 
Ramhi's subject for the evening was Osama bin Laden, and the responses of the Arab world to his message. Does bin Laden represent the sentiments of the Arabs, she asked, or is he a "legend" that the West has exaggerated? There would be her guest panelists, she announced, and there would be reports from the field, from the "streets" of the Arab world. The guest in Doha was a Palestinian writer and analyst by the name of Fayez Rashid; the guest in London was Hafez Karmi, director of the Mayfair Islamic Center; the third pundit was Shafeeq Ghabra, a liberal Kuwaiti political scientist who currently lives in Washington. 
Karmi, a large man with a close-cropped beard, was dressed in a shiny silk suit, matched by a shiny tie. He had the exile's emphatic politics, and he had the faith. Ghabra had his work cut out for him. Indeed, as soon as Rashid launched his first salvo, it became clear that Ghabra was to be a mere foil for an evening of boisterous anti-Americanism. 
"He is a celebrated resister," Rashid said of bin Laden. "The U.S. was looking for an enemy, and bin Laden had supplied it with the enemy it needed. He is an Arab symbol of the fight against American oppression, against Israeli oppression. . . . The U.S. had exaggerated Osama bin Laden's threat. This is the American way: it was done earlier in the case of Iraq when the power of the Iraqi Army was exaggerated before it was destroyed. . . . Now the Americans want to kill bin Laden to defeat this newest Arab symbol."
When Ghabra spoke, he offered a cautionary refrain. A new international order, he said, was emerging out of the wreckage of Sept. 11. "The world is being reshaped," he said. He warned against allowing the "Arab street" to dictate policy. Surely, he said, one wanted leadership and judgment from the Arab world, lest it be further marginalized and left out of the order of nations.
For Karmi, however, Osama bin Laden was a "struggler in the path of God." There was no proof, he added, that Osama bin Laden was responsible for the events of Sept. 11; he was merely a man who cared about the rights of Muslims. He asked and answered his own question: Why did the "Arab Afghans" -- by which he meant the Arab volunteers who had gone to Afghanistan in the 1980's to fight the Soviet Union -- turn their wrath against the United States? "They have been made angry that the enemies are inside the Arab world," he said, echoing bin Laden's Oct. 7 videotape. "By its presence in the Arabian Peninsula, or in Palestine through its unlimited support for the killing of Palestinians, America has brought this anger on itself!" 
Rashid, the guest in Doha, offered further absolution for bin Laden. The man, he argued, was just "part of the Arab anger in the face of American arrogance." 
The show paused for a commercial break. One ad offered a striking counterpoint to the furious anti-Westernism of the call-in program. It was for Hugo Boss "Deep Red" perfume. A willowy Western woman in leather pants strode toward a half-naked young man sprawled on a bed. "Your fragrance, your rules, Hugo Deep Red," the Arabic voiceover intoned. I imagined the young men in Arab-Muslim cities watching this. In the culture where the commercial was made, it was nothing unusual. But on those other shores, this ad threw into the air insinuations about the liberties of the West -- the kind of liberties that can never be had by the thwarted youths of the Islamic world.
Back on the air, Shafeeq Ghabra made his sharpest intervention of the program: There was a "democratic deficit" in the Arab world, he argued. "But if a Saudi citizen had to choose between bin Laden and King Fahd, he should choose King Fahd. Bin Laden has not come forth bearing a democratic project, or a new project to improve the condition of women, or to repair our educational system. What he proposes is a Talibanist project, which would be a calamity for the Arab people." 
Ramhi, the anchorwoman, interrupted him, talking over his voice. "Someone has to say to the United States, this is a red line!" she shouted. "Here and no more, in Palestine and Iraq, in other Arab realms!" 
Ramhi soon cut off the discussion and segued to a taped segment from Egypt. The report, a Cairo street scene, was full of anti-Americanism. "Any young Muslim would be proud to be Osama bin Laden," one young man said. "America is the maker of terrorism," another asserted, "and it is now tasting its own medicine." There was authenticity in this rage; it was unrehearsed and unprompted. The segment went on at some length.
Afterward, Ramhi admitted that there was a "minority opinion" to be found in Egypt. She cut to the brief comments of a quiet man, in a white shirt and tie, in the midst of a crowd. He was eager to exonerate his faith. "I am a good Muslim," he said, "and Islam does not permit the killing of noncombatants. Islam could never countenance the killing of civilians."
This dissent was immediately followed, however, by more belligerence. Men clamored for the "evidence," insisting there was no proof of bin Laden's guilt. And there was the unsettling verdict of the sole "woman on the street" interviewed. The young woman had a certain fundamentalist chic -- a colored head scarf arranged with flair and a confident way about her. She spoke of bin Laden with unadorned admiration. "Bin Laden is the only personality who is doing the right thing at this time," she said. "He is trying to awaken them from their slumber!"
Al Jazeera is the only Arab television station to have achieved global fame, but its status is inflated. The truth is, other Arab channels reach much wider audiences. The oldest, most successful of the pan-Arab satellite stations is the London-based Middle East Broadcasting Centre. The station is controlled by an in-law of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. In addition to broadcasting the region's most popular program, "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" MBC has five news broadcasts of its own. MBC's news programs come across as blandly professional. Compared to Al Jazeera, its reporters are staid, careful not to incur the wrath of Arab rulers or to challenge the established order. There is also the hugely popular Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation International. LBCI is loaded with entertainment programming, but it also regularly presents news. The news on LBCI, a privately owned station, also has a tepid feel. Syria dominates the Lebanese world, and its news broadcasts avoid broadcasting anything that would offend. 
Despite its comparatively small audience, Al Jazeera has received almost all of the Bush administration's attention so far. The doors in official Washington have now opened before Al Jazeera's reporters. Since Sept. 11, there have been interviews with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice. 
Surely, the emir of Qatar never imagined that the bet he took five years ago would be so amply rewarded. Al Jazeera still requires the emir's subsidies, but the station's heightened profile has brought it closer to solvency. Al Jazeera's footage from Afghanistan, for example, has been sold to news outlets around the world, with individual clips selling for as much as $250,000. And earlier this fall, CNN and ABC made arrangements with Al Jazeera to broadcast the Arabic station's exclusive video from Afghanistan.
Al Jazeera's defenders tend to applaud its independence from the censors who control state-sponsored outlets in the Arab world. For the Egyptian novelist Ahdaf Soueif, there is the pleasure of channel-hopping at 2 in the morning and hearing a television station breaking with the widespread censorship and silence of the Arab news media. "It provides the one window through which we breathe," Soueif recently wrote of Al Jazeera. 
In one sense, Soueif is right: the Arab world needed to be challenged. This was a region where the official media, in August 1990, withheld news of Iraq's conquest of Kuwait for three days. The pompous, sycophantic press in Arab countries -- whose main function has been to report the comings and goings and utterances of the ruler of the land -- has been dealt a major blow. For the first time, Arabs with a satellite dish now have access to uncensored news. 
Al Jazeera's viewers see things that people of the region are clearly not meant to see. On Oct. 21, Al Jazeera offered silent footage of Bright Star, a joint Egyptian-American military exercise, off the coast of Egypt. It was a potent commentary on the stealth cooperation of the Egyptian military with the Pentagon. And despite the fact that its coverage of the intifada was horribly slanted, Al Jazeera should get some credit for being one of the few Arab TV stations to interview Israelis. 
That said, Al Jazeera's virulent anti-American bias undercuts all of its virtues. It is, in the final analysis, a dangerous force. And it should treated as such by Washington. 
A Madison Avenue advertising executive, Charlotte Beers, has been newly designated the under secretary of state for public diplomacy and public affairs. The aim is to win the propaganda war, or the battle of public diplomacy in the Muslim world. She has her work cut out for her. The Bush administration is eager to explain America's war, eager for the Arabs and the Pakistanis to accept the justness of its military actions. But how can it possibly expect to persuade the reporters at Al Jazeera to change their deep-seated view of this conflict? It would therefore be folly for America's leaders to spend too much energy trying to moderate Al Jazeera. It would be counterproductive to give Al Jazeera's editors and reporters a special claim on the time of senior American officials.
There is a better strategy available to Washington. Instead of focusing on Al Jazeera, the White House could grant "pool interviews" to a large number of Arab stations. It could give the less inflammatory satellite stations, like MBC and LBCI, as much attention as Al Jazeera. Or, indeed, it could give them more. After all, MBC has a bigger audience; shouldn't it have a bigger influence, too? Why not give MBC the scoop of an interview with President Bush? Why not give LBCI some exclusive access to White House officials?
Americans must accept that they are strangers in the Arab world. We can barely understand, let alone control, what Al Jazeera's flak-jacketed reporters in Kabul and smooth anchorwomen in Doha are saying about us. An American leader being interviewed on Al Jazeera will hardly be able to grasp the insinuations, the hidden meanings, suggested by its hostile reporters. No matter how hard we try, we cannot beat Al Jazeera at its own game. But one thing is sure: there is no need to reward a channel that has made a name for itself through stridency and anti-Americanism. 
There is a war on the battlefield, and that is America's to win. But the repair of the Arab political condition -- and the weaning of the Arab world away from radicalism -- is a burden, and a task, for the Arabs themselves. The only thing America can do is make sure that it never gives this radicalism -- and its satellite channel -- a helping hand. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: And now, the news: Relatives and neighbors in a village near Peshawar, Pakistan, watch Al Jazeera's coverage of the war in Afghanistan. (Ruth Fremson); Adnan Sharif reads the news from Al Jazeera's studios in Doha, Qatar. "Al Jazeera" means "the peninsula," a reference to Qatar's geography. (Charles Crowell/Black Star, for The New York Times); Al Jazeera reports, from left: Dr. Shafeeq Ghabra, Kuwaiti political scientist and pro-American guest; logo for the talk show "The First of the Century's Wars" and its host, Montaha al Ramhi; Osama bin Laden's Oct. 7 videotape; an Islamist guest and a screen crawl reading "American planes conduct raids on Kandahar"; the station logo; an anti-American protest at a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); RELIGION (88%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (79%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); FIRES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); QATAR (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



689 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Incentives Are Offered to Fill Parsippany Offices

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
AS dozens of companies rushed to find a bivouac in New Jersey immediately after the World Trade Center attack, there was a lot of talk among brokers in the state about the "second wave" of relocations that would surely follow.
 More than two months later, the notion appears to have dissipated like so much froth in the wind. The office market is "pretty much back to Sept. 10" -- in the broker phrase of the moment -- and waning. 
 "Over the last couple months, we've noticed a dramatic pullback in demand for space," said Kevin Welsh, a first vice president at CB Richard Ellis. He has decided it is time to pull out an old reliable in the real estate bag of tricks for troubled times: incentives. 
CB Richard Ellis is currently marketing 75,000 square feet of Class A space at the Morris Corporate Center I and II buildings in Parsippany, which were bought as investment property by the teachers' pension fund of Ohio last year.
"For this property, we are implementing a broker incentive," Mr. Welsh said. "It increases the standard commission rate of 5 percent up to 6 percent -- that's a 20 percent increase -- and it will be in effect through the first half of '02."
These are inherently appealing buildings, Mr. Welsh asserted. Built in 1988 by SJP Properties, the granite-faced structures are at the hub of the Parsippany corporate center, just off Interstate 80 where it joins with I-287. "It's a fantastic location," he said, "a corporate campus environment, with a lake, ponds, walking trails -- really, truly Class A." 
But the slowing economy and the resultant decline in the commercial real estate market mean that vigorous efforts are required to get the Morris Center buildings fully leased, Mr. Welsh believes.
Not long after the Ohio teachers purchased Morris I and II, Parsippany's commercial real estate market took some big hits. Lucent Technologies and Aventis, both major presences in town, moved to shrink operations.
Earlier this year, Parsippany's vacancy rate reached 23 percent, the highest in the state. As the economy started wilting around the edges, vacancy rates rose in many parts of New Jersey, with the notable exception of the Hudson waterfront, but Parsippany stayed at the top. For northern New Jersey, the overall rate at the end of September was 12 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company. In central New Jersey, it was 12.9 percent.
When American Express sublet 317,000 square feet of Lucent's empty space in September, just after the terrorist attack forced Amex out of its Manhattan offices,it brought Parsippany's vacancy rate down by 3 percentage points. In mid-November, however, the rate was still 20 percent, by CB Richard Ellis's estimate.
THERE are a number of large blocks of space available in Parsippany. New York Life recently vacated 135,000 square feet. Kraft is currently marketing 145,000 square feet. Telcordia Technologies is marketing up to 100,000 square feet. 
This, Mr. Welsh decided, is the time for "proactivity."
An extra 1 percent in fees could provide a whopping payout to a broker who finds a tenant or tenants to occupy all or most of the Morris Center space.
There is a block of 50,000 square feet, and smaller blocks totaling 25,000 square feet. The asking price to lease the space at both Morris Center buildings is $31.50 per square foot. If the entire available space were leased for five years at that price, the bonus fee would amount to more than $100,000; if leased for 10 years, it would be more than $200,000.
"It costs us something," Mr. Welsh said, "but, simply put, there are fewer deals happening in the marketplace today. Should we just sit there and wait it out? Or do we take a proactive position and develop and initiate increased exploration of the property -- and hopefully an increased level of activity?"
Certainly, other real estate service providers are considering the same question; some have already come to the same conclusion Mr. Welsh has. Last summer, brokers were offered a 150 percent of the normal commission rate -- 7.5 percent -- if they leased an entire floor on certain levels of the Continental Towers in Hackensack by year's end. In mid-November, there were still about 100,000 square feet available.
Brokers were e-mailed an enticement this month about the Meadowview Technical Center in Lyndhurst. If brokers can consummate a transaction involving 20,000 square feet or more, they will be rewarded with "an exclusive Tauck World Discovery excursion to Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico, Costa Rico, Africa, or Europe." If they simply showed up at an open house last Tuesday, they received not only free food and drink, but a chance at some door prizes: a high-definition television with DVD, a 36-inch flat-screen TV and a set of golf clubs.
"Broker incentives generate additional interest and prospective tenants," Mr. Welsh said. But several tenant representatives said that although they feel warmly toward extra fees, they are not sure that is the way things really work.
"I notice those incentives when they come across in the e-mail," said Doug Petrozzini, a senior vice president at Grubb & Ellis in Edison. "I can't really say it changes the way I take a look at the marketplace. If I'm representing a client, that really doesn't change the emphasis.
"If I have a client and a building works for them and there's a bonus, hey, that's great. But the bigger picture is that you're working with a client whose trust you've gained that you will get them the right kind of facility."
Janice Saxton, a broker with Mr. Welsh's own company, CB Richard Ellis, said an incentive offer does "kind of flash a building in front of our eyes," but she said brokers will not succeed if they try to steer a client to a particular property. "Even if I'm going to make $400,000 if I fill a building," she said, "if a tenant doesn't want it, then they don't want it.
W HAT I do is be upfront with a prospective tenant," Ms. Saxton said. "I say there is a broker incentive, and this could indicate the property ownership is willing to be generous. I might say, 'These people are ready. They've got money, and a tenant may have the opportunity to have work done they would like on the space to make it a perfect fit.' "
Mr. Welsh said he wanted to hear about all possibilities for filling the Parsippany buildings. "We cannot afford to miss an opportunity -- that's our attitude," he said. "We need to make sure we see every deal in the marketplace.
"This initiative, although not foolproof, will maximize exposure of the property."
Broker incentives are not the only option; incentives for the prospective occupant may be offered as well -- renovation allowances, a free month's rent, upgrades in infrastructure.
However, Mr. Welsh said that a serious slack-off in the number of broker inquiries about the property his office is handling -- from 10 or 12 calls per month through the summer, down to 3 or 5 per month now -- was the specific prompt for CB Richard Ellis's move and shaped its tactics. 
Parsippany remains popular with investors. Ivy Equities paid $50 million for six J. P. Morgan buildings, Mack-Cali acquired Maple Plaza I and II, and Benenson Capital Company bought a tower on Lackawanna Avenue, all in recent months. Yet its lease-sublease sector increasingly has wallflower status. 
"We think if you get the broker community's attention," Mr. Welsh said, "the user community's attention has got to come along with it. We want them to come to Morris Corporate Center. Once we get people into the building, then we think we're in business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Welsh, a first vice president at CB Richard Ellis, with Morris Corporate Center I in the background. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of Parsippany, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); LAKES (68%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (81%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%); SANOFI SA (52%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (84%); ALU (PAR) (81%); ALU (NYSE) (81%); ALU (BIT) (81%); SNY (NYSE) (52%); SANF (BIT) (52%); SAN (PAR) (52%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (52%); AXP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (81%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY; PARSIPPANY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



690 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3491 words

HEADLINE: Telecom's Pied Piper: Whose Side Was He On? 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
 Covad Communications: Jan. 2, 1999-Aug. 15, 2001.
ICG Communications: Oct. 18, 1994-Nov. 14, 2000.
Northpoint Communications: May 6, 1999-Jan. 16, 2001.
PSINet Inc.: May 1, 1995-May 31, 2001.
Rhythms Netconnections: Apr. 6, 1999-Aug. 1, 2001.

TAKEN separately, the rise and fall of five once-highflying telecommunications concerns, all in bankruptcy, is hardly remarkable. But together, along with other recent telecom failures and those still likely to occur, they represent one of the most spectacular investment debacles ever. Bigger than the South Sea bubble. Bigger than tulipmania. Bigger than the dot-bomb. The flameout of the telecommunications sector, when it is over, will wind up costing investors hundreds of billions of dollars.
 The telecommunications mess stands out for another reason: One man is at its center -- Jack Benjamin Grubman.
No single person can be responsible for the entire debacle, of course, and investors must take responsibility for some of their losses. But as resident guru on telecommunications at Salomon Smith Barney and one of Wall Street's highest-paid analysts, Mr. Grubman, 48, was surely the sector's pied piper. During the height of the mania, in 1999 and 2000, he had buy recommendations on 30 companies, considerably more than most analysts. Mr. Grubman lured more investors into securities of nascent and risky telecom companies than perhaps any other individual.
Anyone can make mistakes, but Mr. Grubman's cheerleading epitomizes the conflict-of-interest questions that have dogged Wall Street for two years: Even as he rallied clients of Salomon Smith Barney, a unit of Citigroup, to buy shares of untested telecommunications companies and to hold on to the shares as they lost almost all their value, he was aggressively helping his firm win lucrative stock and bond deals from these same companies. 
Since 1997, Salomon has taken in more investment banking fees from telecom companies than any other firm on the Street. Because of Mr. Grubman's power and prominence, and because his compensation is based in part on fees the company generated with his help, a part of those fees went to him. The firm declined to discuss Mr. Grubman's compensation on the record.
But one critic was blunt about the star analyst. "Jack Grubman is the king of conflicted analysts," said Jacob H. Zamansky, a securities lawyer who represents investors against Wall Street firms. "A strong case can be made that he used his picks to generate investment banking business for his firm and abused investor trust in his picks. He personifies the blurring of lines between investment banking and objective analysis." Mr. Zamansky recently won a settlement in an arbitration case against another star analyst, Henry Blodget, the Internet analyst at Merrill Lynch who decided to leave the firm last week.
It is impossible to tell how many investors profited from Mr. Grubman's advice on the way up. But those who stuck with him until the end, heeding his advice and holding on to the stocks, have fared dismally. In one telecom arena that Mr. Grubman dominated, among the so-called competitive local exchange carriers, some $140 billion in stock market value has vanished -- 95 percent of the cash raised. 
The money raised for telecom companies through the sale of debt -- notes, bonds and convertible issues -- was even larger, with bigger losses. From 1997 to 2000, according to Lehman Brothers, telecom companies borrowed close to a half-trillion dollars. This year alone, telecom companies that issued high-yield debt have defaulted on $21.4 billion of it, according to Bear, Stearns & Company. That amount accounts for 56 percent of all defaults, across all industries, in 2001. More defaults in the industry are expected.
Wall Street's role as enabler in the telecom binge, and Salomon Smith Barney's part in particular, is undeniable. Since 1997, the firm has collected $809 million underwriting telecom stocks and bonds and $178 million providing merger advice, according to Thomson Financial -- 43 percent more than the fees made by Merrill Lynch, its closest rival in the sector.
Despite repeated requests for an interview, Mr. Grubman declined to comment for this article. Maryellen Hillery, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said: "We stand behind the quality and integrity of our research department and management, and believe the overwhelming recognition from objective third-party surveys speaks for itself. The firm strictly adheres to or surpasses industry and regulatory requirements designed to foster and preserve the integrity of research. Suggestions to the contrary made by anonymous sources are baseless and without integrity."

The Beginnings of a Craze
To some degree, the telecommunications crash is a case study in how Wall Street goes overboard in a bull market, raising capital for start-ups that should never have left the gate.
The craze had its roots in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which deregulated the industry and swept out rules limiting competition. Soon, entrepreneurs saw a chance to build huge networks crisscrossing the globe to serve the big jumps in demand for data transmission.
Hundreds of new and established companies thronged Wall Street, looking for capital. Some, like Metromedia Fiber Network, hoped to build high-capacity transmission systems in American cities. Others, like McLeodUSA, sought money to compete with the entrenched regional Bell companies. Still others, like Global Crossing, planned to wrap the globe in fiber optic networks.
All that stood between the hope of these networks and the glory of their completion was money -- lots of it, because laying fiber networks, unlike starting Internet companies, required big purchases and laborious installation of costly equipment.
Some companies raised cash by issuing stock. But most network operations loaded up on what they thought would be a cheaper source of capital: debt. From 1996 to 2000, telecom companies raised $240 billion in the high-yield, or junk, bond market. When bank debt, money raised in convertible bonds and loans from vendors eager to sell equipment is added, the total raised by the sector climbs to $500 billion.
"A great number of these companies should never have been funded," said Alexi Coscoros, a high-yield analyst at Bear, Stearns. "As long as the market was prepared to buy them, Wall Street was quite happy to bring these companies to market. But high-yield investors were buying paper for companies that were not fully funded and that carried much higher risk than anyone understood."
Wall Street, of course, is not known for scaring off investors with too much talk of risk. But Mr. Grubman clung to his rosy view long after it became obvious to his counterparts that the telecom financing binge was going to end badly. On April 4, a year after most telecom stocks had begun steep descents, Mr. Grubman wrote a report titled "Don't Panic -- Emerging Telecom Model Is Still Valid" and recommended seven stocks: Allegiance Telecom, Broadwing, Global Crossing, Level 3 Communications, McLeodUSA, Metromedia Fiber Network and XO Communications. Since then, the stocks have fallen 58 percent, on average.
It wasn't until a few weeks ago that Mr. Grubman threw in the towel on three of his favorites. On Nov. 2, he downgraded to neutral, from buy, the shares of McLeod -- then selling at 60 cents each, down from a peak of $34.83 last year. He did the same for XO Communications, whose shares were trading at 85 cents, down from $66, and expressed caution on Williams Communications Group, whose shares were valued at $1.39, down from a high last year of $59. 
Since then, the shares of all three companies are up by an average of 48 percent.
Mr. Grubman went pessimistic on McLeodUSA, a company that Salomon helped to expand through an initial stock offering in June 1996 and later with several other debt and equity issues, because he expected its third-quarter revenue to fall 4 percent from the previous quarter. "It will no longer be considered a growth stock," Mr. Grubman wrote, "and with free cash flow not expected until '06, it is still far from a value stock label, so investor interest is expected to be low."
Emmett Ryan, a former fund manager in Southport, Conn., who specialized in telecommunications investments, said that for Mr. Grubman, "everything was based on a model."
"They would project revenues, expenses and net cash flow out into the distant future and come up with a price target," Mr. Ryan said. "But when these things started going down, they would not adjust their projections until the thing was at zero."
What pushed these promising companies into the abyss? In short, the enormous demand for data transmission networks predicted by Mr. Grubman and others never materialized. Nor did the cash flows on which these companies depended to pay their interest costs. At least four companies recommended by Mr. Grubman have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. More than half of the companies that he tracks are the equivalent of penny stocks, trading at less than $5 a share. 
But back in the heady days of 1999 and 2000, analysts were saying the sky was the limit on telecommunications and were telling investors to climb aboard for the ride of their lives. Nobody pounded the table quite as assiduously, or as effectively, as Mr. Grubman.

From AT&T to Wall Street
Mr. Grubman, an only child, grew up in a family of modest means, living in a Philadelphia row house. His father was a carpenter for the city; his mother worked in a dress shop. He received a bachelor of science degree in mathematics from Boston University in 1975 and a master's in probability theory from Columbia in 1977. Then he went to work for AT&T.
At first, he analyzed the demand for long-distance services, using computer models. He later worked in corporate planning for the company's breakup in 1984. In January 1985, he left for Wall Street, joining Paine Webber as a telecommunications analyst.
His Wall Street beginnings were inauspicious. In May 1986, according to regulatory filings, Mr. Grubman failed the exam, called the Series 7, that anyone who wants to be an investment professional must pass.
He subsequently passed. But even more important, he figured out how to stand out from the crowd of analysts covering telecommunications, which in those days meant analyzing AT&T and its recently freed regional Bell offspring. Mr. Grubman's knowledge of the company's internal operations gave him an edge. According to an analyst who is no longer in the business, Mr. Grubman regularly beat out competitors with information on AT&T that nobody else had.
"Jack had information that was never made public," said this person, who like most others interviewed about Mr. Grubman asked for anonymity for fear of ruining relationships on Wall Street. "I covered the company like a rug, and it was extremely concerned about leaks at the time."
Mr. Grubman gained attention from investors by being cautious about AT&T in a crowd that was mostly positive. He may also have recognized that the advent of competition after the AT&T breakup meant that there would be many more stocks to take public and bonds to issue than there were in the one-company era. 
"By being negative on AT&T, Jack was able to gain the ear of other telco C.E.O.'s," the former analyst said. In 1988, for example, Mr. Grubman met Bernard J. Ebbers, the entrepreneur who eventually built WorldCom into a telecom colossus. Mr. Grubman parlayed the information he gleaned from small players in the business to become an expert in the sector.

Finding Fame and Fortune
In 1994, Mr. Grubman, well on his way to becoming a star analyst, left Paine Webber for Salomon Brothers. By the time the firm was taken over by Smith Barney in 1998, Mr. Grubman had toppled rivals and gained the top ranking in his industry on the All-American Research Team, as listed by Institutional Investor magazine.
Fortune followed fame. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to woo Mr. Grubman from Salomon Smith Barney, but he stayed put. Telecom deals were pouring in, and Mr. Grubman became the go-to guy. He ended up earning an estimated $20 million from the firm in 1999.
In January of that year, he and his wife, Luann, bought a town house on the Upper East Side of Manhattan for $6.2 million in cash. Soon, they were renovating the entire house. 
As the number of telecom deals ballooned, and as Mr. Grubman's picks ascended, his hegemony in the industry and the firm took hold. That attracted still more business from executives who knew both how positive he was on the sector and how powerful his buy recommendations could be. In March 2000, for instance, when he raised his price target for Metromedia Fiber Network, the stock jumped 16 percent in one day. Companies deluged Salomon Smith Barney for their capital needs, and Mr. Grubman churned out glowing research reports, annually collecting a multimillion-dollar pay package.
Increasingly, that was the way Wall Street worked. "Equity research is a loss leader in most firms," said Philip K. Meyer, a money manager in Rowayton, Conn., who worked as an analyst on Wall Street for 18 years. "What it does is oil the pipeline so you have a good relationship with clients, so when you do deals you have a good distribution channel. Because the money you make on I.P.O.'s is so much greater, the increased pressure from investment banking makes research dysfunctional."
Clearly, Mr. Grubman was very good at oiling the pipeline. Besides issuing securities, many telecom companies -- primed for growth -- were eager for advice on takeovers or mergers.

Days of Telecom Mania
McLeodUSA's rise, and crashing fall, is typical of the stocks Mr. Grubman favored. Based in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, McLeodUSA began as a provider of local and long-distance telephone service to small markets in the Upper Midwest. Advised by Salomon Smith Barney from the outset, McLeodUSA bought and resold local service from regional Bells and long-distance service from WorldCom. The company was run by Clark E. McLeod, who in the 1980's built a long-distance business called Teleconnect that he later sold to MCI.
Salomon led the offering that brought the company public on June 11, 1996, raising $240 million. The firm made $10 million in fees on the deal, which priced the stock at $20 a share, not adjusted for subsequent splits. (Adjusting for splits, the deal came at $3.33 a share.)
Five weeks later, with the stock at $24.25, Mr. Grubman began covering McLeod with a buy recommendation and a 12-month price target of $40. "McLeod represents one of the truly great business models that will be executed in the new era of telecom," Mr. Grubman wrote, predicting that it would be "one of the best return vehicles in what will be a high-return segment of the telecom industry."
Almost immediately, McLeod began buying other companies, like Telecom USA Publishing, a phone book publisher, at $74 million, and, in 1997, Consolidated Communications at $420 million. But McLeod also needed hefty amounts of cash to build a network. Since November 1996, when the stock traded at $28, the company has gone to the stock or debt markets eight times, raising $3.5 billion. Salomon led all the offerings, pulling in almost $100 million in fees over the period, according to Thomson Financial. It also collected advisory fees for the acquisitions, normally about 1 percent of each deal's price for transactions worth more than $1 billion. The total is unclear, but Salomon pocketed $7 million for advice on McLeod's acquisition, in January 2000, of Split rock Services, a small telecom company in Texas.
According to a former analyst at the firm, Mr. Grubman's pay was tied specifically to the deals that the firm did in telecommunications. "I remember meeting with these guys and they would have a list of deals and they would say, 'Here's how much we're paying you deal by deal,' " this person said. "There was a formula."
Salomon Smith Barney also generated fees in other ways from the deals Mr. Grubman helped foster. Often, it executed stock trades for the executives of the companies, for which it was paid commissions. At McLeod, for example, Mary E. McLeod, the chairman's wife, sold $50 million in stock through Salomon on Feb. 8, 2000. Some companies, like WorldCom, hired Salomon to run their corporate stock-option plans for company employees, generating fees and luring new brokerage customers in general. Finally, Mr. Grubman's ability to move markets meant that Salomon's trading desk probably made a good deal of money executing buy and sell orders for its customers.
In all, Salomon's earnings from McLeod over the years far outpaced McLeod's profits. As the company's revenue rose to $1.4 billion in 2000 from $267 million in 1997, it lost almost $1 billion over that period. So far this year, it has lost an additional $2.6 billion.
The losses, however, did not keep McLeod's stock from soaring. Every few months, Mr. Grubman would reiterate his enthusiasm for the company, coming out with a higher price target or another reason to own the stock. In January 1998, for example, just days after the company raised $225 million in bonds for McLeod, he increased his price target on the stock to $53 from $50. 
By March 2000, McLeod shares reached a split-adjusted peak of $34.83, up almost tenfold from the initial offering price. 
And Mr. Grubman, at the top of his game, was scoffing at anyone who questioned the propriety of having an analyst, whose job is to provide investors with objective investment advice, work closely with the firm's investment bankers. "What used to be a conflict is now a synergy," he told Business Week in May 2000. "Objective? The other word for it is uninformed."
Soon, however, the bottom fell out of McLeod and the telecom sector.
It was not until August, with McLeod's stock at $2.44, down 93 percent from its 2000 peak, that Mr. Grubman allowed in a report that the company "had some missteps in the last year and a half, most notably the ill-advised acquisition of Splitrock." He made no mention that Salomon Smith Barney had advised McLeod that the acquisition was worth the $2.1 billion it paid. Nor did he acknowledge that in both January and April 2000, he wrote reports praising the Splitrock purchase as a "smart strategic merger" that dramatically enhanced McLeod's "position on the national stage." 
McLeodUSA, to the chagrin of its investors, no longer finds itself on the national stage. Its stock sells for 73 cents a share, and its market capitalization, $455 million, represents 13 percent of the money it raised from investors. On Thursday, McLeod wrote off $2.9 billion, most of it related to the Splitrock acquisition. 

An Unflinching Optimist
In the months since the telecom mania began to dissolve, it has become clear that Mr. Grubman remained too optimistic far too long. Many companies he favored are defunct or are trading for pennies a share or have been delisted from the Nasdaq market. 
Many other highly paid analysts also made the mistake of staying too long at the technology stock party that ended abruptly last year. But Mr. Grubman's reports show a particular disregard for the dangers of heavy debt piled on unproven companies. Debt, though not a big factor in the Internet debacle, was the 800-pound gorilla in telecommunications.
Nevertheless, Mr. Grubman continually swatted away speculation that debt might become a problem for his companies -- talk that began creeping into the market a year ago when Ravi Suria, then a convertible-bond analyst at Lehman Brothers, warned of looming debt problems in telecommunications. One money manager said Mr. Grubman often played down risk. "If a company comes out and doubles its debt-to-equity ratio, you would say the risk is greater," the manager said. "But he was always writing positive reports around times when his companies were raising debt."
Reality may be catching up with Mr. Grubman. Last month, he dropped to third place from first on the Institutional Investor rankings for the wireline services sector. (He still ranks No. 1 in the competitive local exchange carriers sector.) His 2001 paycheck will undoubtedly reflect the desert in telecom deals. And according to regulatory filings, he has been named in two arbitration cases and one lawsuit brought by customers of Salomon Smith Barney, who claim breach of fiduciary duty or misrepresentation in his stock picks.
Mr. Grubman's reputation has also been tarnished inside Salomon Smith Barney, where the sales force used to treat him with deference. In the old days, on the morning call to brokers, listeners would hang on the analyst's every utterance, according to several witnesses. He would speak expansively about his favorite companies, taking 20 minutes to get through all his points. 
Today, brokers say, Mr. Grubman is more often than not cut short by others on the call. One longtime salesman at the firm said recently: "Jack Grubman? His name is mud around here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Benjamin Grubman was perpetually bullish on telecommunications. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1); In 1996, Jack Grubman called McLeodUSA of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, "one of the truly great business models." (Mark Tade/Gazette Commercial Photography); As Mr. Grubman's following grew, so did his income. He and his wife, Luann, paid $6.2 million in cash for this town house on the Upper East Side in 1999. (David Paler for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Optimistic or Opportunistic?Jack Benjamin Grubman, telecommunications analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, heralded the virtues of McLeodUSA as its stock rose and fell. Mr. Grubman often issued optimistic reports and buy ratings as his firm was handling a purchase, stock offering or bond issue for the company. JUNE 10, '96McLeodUSA goes public, raising $240 million. Indicates a buy rating from Mr. Grubman SEPT. 20, '96The company buys Telecom USA Publishing for $74 million in cash. NOV. 15, '96The company sells stock worth $146 million through Salomon. JULY 15, '97McLeod issues $225 million of debt. SEPT. 24, '97McLeod pays $420 million for Consolidated Communications. MARCH 10, '98The company issues $500 million in debt. AUG. 21, '98The company acquires QST Communications. OCT. 22, '98Another bond offering raises $300 million. NOV. 19, '98The company acquires Dakota Telecommunications for $70 million. JAN. 29, '99The company buys Talking Directories. FEB. 11, '99The company raises an additional $500 million in debt. MARCH 31, '99The company acquires Ovation Communications for $141 million in cash and $83 million in debt. MAY 12, '99The company issues $500 million in stock. AUG. 30, '99Forstmann Little invests $1 billion in the company. FEB. 8, '00Mary E. McLeod, wife of the chairman sells $50 million in company stock through Salomon. APRIL 3, '00The company buys Splitrock Services for $2.1 billion. OCT. 3, '00Acquisition of CapRock Communications costs $535 million. JAN. 4, '01Another bond offering raises $750 million. NOV. 2, '01Mr. Grubman downgrades stock to neutral for the first time in five years. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BONDS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%); LAWYERS (65%); ETHICS (63%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ETHICS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: CCGI HOLDING CORP (92%); PSINET INC (91%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); RHYTHMS NETCONNECTIONS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON SMITH BARNEY; MCLEODUSA INC 

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GRUBMAN, JACK BENJAMIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (75%) IOWA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



691 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Some Restaurants Thrive in Slowdown

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE LEDER

 BODY:
AMERICANS' appetite for restaurants that serve sizzling plates of fajitas and shrimp dinners for less than $10 has yet to show any significant signs of waning.
 After a brief decline immediately after Sept. 11, sales at several large casual-dining chains have returned to their previous levels, and investors have bid up the companies' shares. Chains serving low-priced dinners have done particularly well, several analysts said, because they offer an inexpensive minibreak. 
 "Most people don't consider eating out a luxury, so even with the slowdown in the economy, you haven't seen a big decline in casual dining," said Dennis I. Forst, a restaurant industry analyst at McDonald Investments in Cleveland. According to the National Restaurant Association, a trade group, 46 percent of the money Americans spend on food is for meals outside of their homes. 
On average, the casual-dining companies, which offer table service and full bars, have posted earnings growth of 15 percent annually. Yet most trade at 15 to 18 times earnings, roughly half the multiple for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, said Kevin R. O'Brien, manager of the Neuberger Berman Genesis fund. The portfolio owns shares of a half-dozen restaurant companies, including Brinker International, which is based in Dallas and is at the top of many analysts' lists. 
Brinker owns and franchises more than 1,100 restaurants, including Chili's and Romano's Macaroni Grill. A steady earnings performer, Brinker closed at $27.58 on Friday, compared with $25.50 on Sept. 10, just before the terrorist attacks.
Other favorites of analysts include two smaller chains, P. F. Chang's China Bistro, based in Phoenix, and the Cheesecake Factory, based in Calabasas Hills, Calif. Many say these companies are reasonably priced and offer good growth potential. On Friday, P. F. Chang's closed at $43.89 and the Cheesecake Factory closed at $31.89, both well above their post-Sept. 11 lows.
Analysts and money managers have mixed views on the prospects for two of the largest casual restaurant companies, Darden Restaurants, based in Orlando, Fla., which operates more than 1,100 Olive Garden and Red Lobster restaurants, and Applebee's International of Overland Park, Kan., which owns or franchises nearly 1,400 Applebee's restaurants. Sales at both companies have been growing.
Their stocks have climbed steadily in recent weeks. On Friday, Darden closed at $30.75, compared with $26.85 on Sept. 10, and Applebee's closed at $33.20, versus $30.04.
BUT some analysts think the stocks may now be too expensive. Paul L. Westra, a restaurant analyst at Robertson Stephens, is concerned that Darden shares have reached his target price of $30.
"Darden's done really well, but the valuation is now a little rich," Mr. Westra said. Still, advertising campaigns, like those promoting 30 shrimp for $9.99 at Red Lobster, have drawn people into the restaurants. "Their tool chest is perfect for the current environment," he said.
Executives at several restaurant companies acknowledge that they face some risks. Business would not be helped by a bioterrorism incident -- even a false alarm -- aimed at a restaurant. Several executives said they had increased spot inspections of restaurants and outside suppliers.
If the economy continues to weaken and unemployment keeps rising, even $6 cheeseburgers may become difficult to sell. 
"With the decline in the economy, some people may fall out of the bottom," said Charles M. Sonsteby, Brinker's chief financial officer. He added that the company had noticed customers "trading down" to Chili's, Brinker's least expensive restaurants, from others of its chains like Romano's Macaroni Grill and On the Border. He has also noticed a shift toward pastas, from more expensive beef and chicken dinners. Nevertheless, Mr. Sonsteby said he did not expect that to hurt profit margins because the costs of food, utilities and labor have been falling.
Most analysts and money managers say the economy would have to become significantly worse for people to stop eating out.
"If you go out to the malls, you're still going to have a relative challenge in trying to get a table at one of these restaurants, particularly on a Friday or Saturday night," said Mr. O'Brien of Neuberger Berman's Genesis fund. "But if you go out to most of the major retailers, nobody's there."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Feeding Frenzy"An investment of $500 among five casual-dining chains would have fared far better over the last two years than an investment in the broader market. Graph shows RESTAURANT STOCKS* and S.& P. 500 INDEX from January 2000. *Return on equal investments in Applebee's International, Brinker International, Cheesecake Factory, Darden Restaurants and P. F. Chang's China Bistro (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) RESTAURANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BRINKER INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (86%); APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (86%); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC (85%); P F CHANG'S CHINA BISTRO INC (85%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (55%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: EAT (NYSE) (92%); DRI (NYSE) (86%); CAKE (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (86%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (86%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (85%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (85%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



692 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Bullish, and Patient, on Energy Stocks

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
DESPITE last week's plunge in the price of crude oil and in shares of big oil companies, some Wall Street analysts remain upbeat about the long-term prospects for energy stocks. 
 "These very dramatic downturns are great buying opportunities," said Tina Vital, an oil and gas analyst at Standard & Poor's, who recommends a broad group of integrated oil companies, including Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco, Royal Dutch/Shell, BP and TotalFinaElf. "They have excellent management, a top dividend yield and are a safe haven for investors," she said, provided that investors are patient and can bear short-term swings. 
 Last week's price declines were set off by Russian oil companies' refusal to accept demands by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries for big production cuts. They were a reminder that the sector is extremely volatile. "Oil could go to $10 a barrel short term," she said, but there is no certainty of that. The oil producers could reach an agreement by January, sending prices upward. Over the long term, she expects to see production cuts. 
Demand for energy has grown only 0.5 percent this year, and prices have been declining for some time for both crude oil and gasoline -- as drivers have seen at the gas pump. West Texas intermediate crude closed Friday at $18.03 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 58 cents from its Thursday close, the lowest since June 1999. But an economic recovery, expected by late 2002, could cause demand to pick up, analysts say. 
As oil prices have dropped, so have the prices of most oil stocks, but not as much as the overall market since the beginning of 2000. Over that period, the S.& P. energy index has lost 8 percent, while the S.& P. 500-stock index is down 23 percent.
A report issued last week by the Energy Department said that while the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks had intensified the country's economic slowdown, "they are not expected to result in any long-term volatility in energy markets." The report estimated that commercial energy demand would rise 1.7 percent a year through 2020, instead of the 1.2 percent predicted only a year ago. Its predictions assume increased use of computers and office equipment, and slower increases in fuel efficiency for cars and trucks.
WHILE they warn of the possibility of wild price shifts in the months ahead, other analysts are similarly bullish for the long term. L. Bruce Lanni, senior oil analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons in New York, said that any potential price war was likely to be fairly short-lived, because neither OPEC nor non-OPEC countries could "withstand low oil prices for a prolonged period of time," and prices should rebound sharply as a result, "back up in the lower to mid-$20 range." 
Low prices could be painful for most of the oil companies in the short term, but Mr. Lanni, too, sees value in the stocks.
His top pick is Conoco, now trading at $24.30; his 12-month target is $34. "We remain confident," he said, "that the company's annual oil and gas production should grow by about 4 percent, on average, over the next several years."
Conoco's debt, at 55 percent of capital, is relatively high, but he expects the company's strong cash flow -- it equaled $5.33 a share last year -- to reduce the debt level to 46 percent next year and to 38 percent in 2003. The company's after-tax interest cost is only 3.5 percent, he said.
Mr. Lanni also favors Kerr-McGee, a natural gas exploration and production company, and BP, calling both undervalued. He regards Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell and ChevronTexaco as fully priced, so he is not recommending buying them now. "If you own them, hold them," he said.
William Featherston, executive director and an oil and gas exploration analyst at UBS Warburg, said he felt "near-term caution but medium-term optimism for sustainably higher" natural gas prices. He said he would encourage investors to consider buying shares of exploration and production companies over the next two months. His top picks are Apache, Kerr-McGee and EOG Resources.
Such stocks are highly volatile, he said. They are "trading-oriented vehicles, and short-term volatility in commodity prices generally provides the most attractive entry and exit points," he said. "While natural gas prices declined throughout most of this year, prices rose at a startling pace, from $1.75 per million cubic feet at the end of September to over $3 per million cubic feet within weeks."
He cited three reasons for the price rally: a decline in gas surpluses, predictions of a colder-than-normal winter and what he has called "pathetic third-quarter natural gas production," despite record drilling activity.
The tangled finances of the Enron Corporation were also a factor in the recent price increase for natural gas futures, he said. Enron, which marketed 25 billion cubic feet a day of natural gas, or more than 40 percent of the nation's demand, is under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and announced a $1.2 billion reduction in shareholder equity from deals with partnerships involving its former chief financial officer. It also reported a third-quarter loss and restated earlier earnings. Enron has agreed to be taken over by Dynegy, a smaller rival, for about $9 billion in stock. Dynegy is also assuming about $13 billion in debt.
Anxiety over whether the Enron investigation would disrupt deliveries or have other market repercussions led to an increase in prices. While it is "difficult to quantify the Enron factor," Mr. Featherston said, the short-term effects on natural gas prices seem to be over.
OTHER factors, of course, could also mean a bumpy ride for energy investors over the next several months. The status of the war against terrorism, President Bush's decision to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, thus helping OPEC in reducing excess global capacity, and a United Nations review of the food-for-oil deal with Iraq expected in December could each have a significant impact on battered oil prices.
Nevertheless, Ms. Vital said, for the long term, energy will probably be in short supply, and new sources must be developed. So she also likes the prospects of two drilling companies, Noble Drilling and Nabors Industries. Both took a beating last week, along with the oil companies, so again she sees buying opportunities.
Bern Fleming, portfolio manager of the AXP Utilities Income fund in Minneapolis, who has stakes in Dynegy, Duke Energy and Dominion Resources, said all three had good prospects for growth, thanks to a mix of assets, "management I respect and solid business plans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at an oil well near Lafayette, La. Although oil prices have plunged, analysts say there is still good long-term potential for the stocks of energy companies. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) Chart: "Power Play"Energy stocks have generally outperformed the overall market since the beginning of 2000. Graph shows CONOCO SHARES, S. & P. ENERGY COMPOSITE, and the S.& P. 500 INDEX since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL) 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); TOTAL SA (57%); CHEVRON CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (72%); RDSA (AMS) (72%); RDS.B (NYSE) (72%); RDS.A (NYSE) (72%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); TTA (LSE) (57%); TOT (NYSE) (57%); TOT (BIT) (57%); FP (PAR) (57%); FP (BRU) (57%); CVX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



693 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SAUDI ARABIA; 
Profligate Princes Stir Succession Questions And Threaten Reform

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
Last August, when many Saudis had fled the searing heat, the public telephone company quietly released an unprecedented financial report, and those paying attention believe it revealed an astounding detail about what royal princes can cost the kingdom. 
 The numbers, carried by the leading business daily Al Iqtisad, indicated that from 1998 to 2000, unpaid telephone bills amounted to $880 million. The report did not say who the slackers might be, and one cabinet minister denied it was princes alone. 
 But everyone knows that if an average Saudi does not pay the phone bill, the line is cut off. "What bureaucrat in his right mind is going to risk his job by cutting the phone line of a prince?" said one Saudi journalist. 
Staggering phone bills are one aspect of the murkiness swirling around the ruling dynasty. Crucial issues like where the finances of the family stop and those of the kingdom start, not to mention the question of succession, remain shrouded behind the palace walls. 
But the Sept. 11 attacks have focused new attention on the family, not least because the ideology of Osama bin Laden is rooted in the Arabian peninsula, his hatreds at least partly inspired by close military and other ties between the royals and the United States. Furthermore, tensions between the cost of the family and the needs of the people always rise at a time of sinking oil prices, like those seen in the last week.
This much seems clear: Crown Prince Abdullah, the country's effective ruler, has been trying to rein in profligate princes. But information about this campaign is hard to come by, as are firm clues in the sweepstakes over the royal succession and generational change. Saudi analysts say that the contest shapes family actions like none other, stirring factional rivalries that probably have forced Abdullah to tone down his drive for austerity. 
The one given in the kingdom is that just three men make the most important decisions: King Fahd, Crown Prince Abdullah and Prince Sultan, the defense minister. 
They may consult other princes, but even the most senior commoners are not always privy to their thinking; cabinet ministers have been known to learn about their budgets only when the Royal Court releases the figures. So the workings of the royal family emerge through a combination of rumor, opaque press releases and unguarded statements from princes. 
"Court gossip is the coin of the realm, and 98 percent of it is wrong," said Prof. F. Gregory Gause III, a Saudi expert at the University of Vermont. 
Crown Prince Abdullah started to manage the day-to-day running of the country in 1996, when King Fahd suffered a debilitating stroke. The monarch, who celebrates 20 years on the throne this month, also apparently has Alzheimer's disease. Saudi watchers thought he could no longer stand until he was seen out of his wheelchair at a national soccer championship last spring. 
"He was vertical!" said one Western diplomat.
Diplomats who have seen him with official delegations report that the king has moments of lucidity followed by periods when he does not even recognize family members. "His mind is there, but it comes in and out," one diplomat noted. 
Before taking control, Prince Abdullah was viewed as an unlikely innovator. His main job since 1963 had been commander of the National Guard, a bastion of conservative tribal traditions, and he spent little time outside the kingdom. 
But he surprised many by being candid about the kingdom's economic hurdles, by speaking out about expanding the role of women and by criticizing the legendary sluggishness of the bureaucracy. Most important, he offered measures to curb royal privileges, announcing in 2000 the creation of a family council to manage its affairs and to soothe public opinion by separating the family finances from that of the government. 
Saudi Arabia earned $80 billion in oil revenue last year, but analysts say that the royal family finances its special projects through roughly another 20 percent of oil sales that stay off the books. 
Many Saudis grumble that the royal tribe, with an estimated 7,000 princes, has grown too large for the country to sustain the opulent family welfare system begun decades ago by the founder, King Abdel Aziz al-Saud. Prince Abdullah seemed to agree. 
He put royal family members on notice that they should pay their electricity and phone bills as well as buy their once-gratis tickets on Saudia, the state-run airline. Indeed, the telephone company reported a huge leap in phone bills paid starting in 2000. 
Prince Abdullah also interfered with land grants. Once modest parcels granted by the Royal Court for princely palaces, they have mushroomed into a multibillion-dollar real estate industry that generates most of the royal wealth. 
"Almost every land deal goes back to one of them," said a Saudi businessman. (Given the power of the family, no one inside the kingdom wants to discuss the topic openly.) 
Before major construction projects like airports, for example, the princes in the know will get a grant for the airport land and then sell the land back to the government. It is all perfectly legal. 
But Prince Abdullah took the unusual step of trying to stop the most flagrant abuses after an important prince was granted a large chunk of prime real estate near downtown Jidda. 
There have also been no major military contracts -- an important source of commissions -- for five years. 
Royal watchers believe that Abdullah has retreated somewhat, after an outcry from princes. "He does not tolerate many of the excesses that are widespread, but he is not stupid, so he has to accept a lot more than a dictator," said Joseph A. Kechichian, author of the book "Succession in Saudi Arabia." 
At 78, the crown prince probably does not have long to institute change after King Fahd dies. Having no full brothers, Abdullah needs the support of as many important princes as possible. 
Some believe he has not moved to have the ailing king abdicate out of respect for an elder. Others think that King Fahd's full brothers and sons, who hold powerful positions, have blocked any such move. 
Royal succession works down through the sons of King Abdel Aziz, of whom 24 survive. Not all are considered monarch material. Should Prince Abdullah become king, he will be under intense pressure to name Prince Sultan as crown prince. Sultan, defense minister for almost 40 years, also carries the title of second deputy prime minister. 
Sultan is a member of an influential subgroup known as the Sudeiri 7, all brothers from the same mother. King Fahd is a Sudeiri, as is Prince Nayef, the interior minister, and Prince Salman, the governor of Riyadh. 
There are also dozens of Sudeiri grandsons, including Prince Bandar, ambassador to Washington and the defense minister's son. 
A royal decree promulgated in 1992 stipulates that the king should chose the "most upright" of the sons or grandsons of King Abdel Aziz as crown prince. Some wonder whether Prince Abdullah might try to skip to the grandsons. But given the remaining number of eligible sons -- the youngest was born in 1947 -- that is considered unlikely. 
Even if Sultan becomes crown prince, given that he is around 77, an intense fight is likely, indeed probably under way, for the No. 3 spot. 
Saudis joke among themselves that the tug of war resembles an American-style campaign as princes seek to shore up their public standing.
Prince Abdullah shattered royal precedent by showing up unannounced in a shopping mall to chat with ordinary Saudis. He has also sought to distance himself from the Washington ties cultivated by the Sudeiris.
Although Prince Salman, who is around 60, is the capital's governor, he takes foreign trips like one this summer to visit a mosque in Portugal, showing that he has the credentials to act on a world stage. 
Prince Sultan, long a public fan of the United States through the defense ministry's close ties and arms purchases, has taken his cue from public anger over American support for Israel and started making statements critical of Washington. 
The 60-year alliance between the Sauds and the United States was based on the basic understanding that in exchange for access to oil -- with one-quarter of the world's supply under Saudi Arabia's control -- the United States would protect the royal family. 
This protection is especially critical in moments of crisis -- as in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait and made feints toward the kingdom -- and the Sauds painstakingly build a policy consensus within their unwieldly family. And no consensus will be more perilous than passing the throne to a new generation, a decision expected within a decade. 
"The big mess is when you have to go to the next generation, the grandsons, because there is no model, no system, no template for transferring down a generation," said Professor Gause, the Saudi expert.
"Nobody knows how they will do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some Saudi princes attending a cultural festival in 1999. Many Saudis grumble that the country can no longer sustain the royal welfare system. (SIPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); FAMILY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); HIJACKING (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); SWEEPSTAKES (69%); STROKES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%); SOCCER (50%) HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FINANCES; ROYAL FAMILY 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (89%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (79%) SAUDI ARABIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



694 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1856 words

HEADLINE: Clash Over Legacy Fuels Computer Merger Battle 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The computer industry's biggest merger, championed by executives involved as giving them the tools to master the challenges of the future, has suddenly found itself held captive by two concepts from the past: family and legacy.
 The Hewlett-Packard Company's $23 billion bid for the Compaq Computer Corporation has been troubled since it was announced on Sept. 4, when skeptical investors immediately protested by selling shares in both companies. 
 Now the deal faces a challenge from within. On Friday, in the latest sign of turmoil, Walter B. Hewlett, the oldest son of the co-founder William Hewlett and a sitting member of the Hewlett-Packard board, declared his intention in a government filing to encourage other shareholders to oppose the deal. He also filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a 69-page analysis, prepared by his financial advisers, detailing why the proposed merger with Compaq would harm Hewlett-Packard investors. 
"This signals and confirms that Walter thinks this is a terrible deal for shareholders," Stephen C. Neal, a partner at Cooley Godward, a law firm representing Mr. Hewlett, said in an interview on Friday. "And he is determined to pursue all available options."
That Hewlett-Packard is the stage for such a battle is fitting. The company is regarded as the birthplace of Silicon Valley and a wellspring of its legends, founded in 1938 in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage with $500 and an entrepreneurial dream. Yet the fight over Hewlett-Packard's future also shows how much Silicon Valley's fortunes have changed, as companies scramble to insure their survival in the industry's worst recession ever. 
The confrontation pits dissident family members led by Mr. Hewlett, 57, and David W. Packard, 61, against the company's management, led by Carleton S. Fiorina, the 47-year-old chief executive, who was recruited from Lucent Technologies two years ago. The Hewlett-Packard board picked Ms. Fiorina as a forceful, charismatic outsider with a mandate to set new directions and reinvigorate an inbred corporate culture. As the head of the largest company ever run by a woman, she has become a business celebrity.
The economic falloff since Sept. 11 accelerated the yearlong slide in the technology business, hurting the prospects and share prices of both companies. In the last two weeks, Mr. Hewlett has been joined by other heirs of the co-founders in publicly opposing the deal.
Both sides say there is nothing personal in the dispute -- but there most assuredly is. Mr. Hewlett's lawyer insists his client is not seeking to oust Ms. Fiorina and her management team. "That's not Walter's concern at all," Mr. Neal said. "His concern is with the Compaq deal."
Yet others close to Mr. Hewlett say his reservations about Ms. Fiorina's leadership have been growing for some time. Those qualms, they say, were heightened by the precipitous retreat in the value of Hewlett-Packard shares, from nearly $65 each in July 2000 to $21.50 last Friday. 
Mr. Hewlett and other family members are major shareholders, and the family charitable foundations -- the main interest of the founders' children -- are the largest overall holders of Hewlett-Packard stock.
Mr. Hewlett, a colleague says, has come to view Ms. Fiorina as a "professional manager, not someone really committed to H.P." Mr. Hewlett, this person added, cares deeply about his father's legacy.
Mr. Hewlett, a board member since 1987, approved the hiring of Ms. Fiorina and initially went along with the Compaq merger plan. But he has come to regard the deal as a grave mistake that could imperil the company his father spent his life building. "When Walter gets mad, he can be really stubborn," the person close to him said. "I don't see him backing down now."
For her part, Ms. Fiorina views the Compaq deal as a decisive step needed to secure Hewlett-Packard's future. Her vision is that by combining with Compaq, Hewlett-Packard can become more like I.B.M. -- a full-service computer company offering hardware, software and services to corporate customers, and a thriving survivor in difficult times.
"We don't have the luxury of an incremental approach," Ms. Fiorina told industry analysts last week. "We need to take a bold step to address these challenges now."
Ms. Fiorina has pinned her reputation to the Compaq deal, and her job may well depend on its success. "She's got to win or she's out," observed Charles R. Wolf, an industry analyst at Needham & Company, a Wall Street firm.
Hewlett-Packard management and most board members view the resistance of Mr. Hewlett and Mr. Packard as a well-intentioned but misguided effort to preserve the past.
Mr. Hewlett is a consulting professor of music at Stanford University, an intellectual with advanced degrees in music, engineering and operations research from Stanford. He is the author of a software program, MuseData, that represents musical scores in symbols. He missed a portion of the July board meeting to consider the Compaq deal because he was performing with an orchestra at Bohemian Grove, the exclusive all-male gathering. Mr. Neal said the performance was a longstanding commitment, known to the company board well in advance.
Mr. Packard is a philanthropist and a former classics professor who also has an engineering degree. He founded Ibycus, a company that developed computer systems that store and retrieve data in several languages including Latin, Greek, Coptic and Hebrew.
Mr. Packard, according to one Hewlett-Packard board member, is a "brilliant classics scholar" while Mr. Hewlett, he said, is "a wonderful dilettante." But, the board member added, "both of them are essentially oblivious to business."
Yet both men have said in statements that they are publicly breaking with the Hewlett-Packard management, as they never have in the past, because they believe the Compaq deal is a mistake -- that it is likely to hurt shareholders, but could also destroy the corporate culture their fathers nurtured for years.
Hewlett-Packard has been known for the egalitarian, engineering culture of its founders, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard. The style was so open and informal that a cheeky, 12-year-old Steven P. Jobs once called Bill Hewlett directly, chatted about an electronics gadget he was building and asked Mr. Hewlett for parts. Mr. Hewlett gave him the parts and a summer job at Hewlett-Packard. Later, Mr. Jobs and Stephen Wozniak started Apple Computer in a Silicon Valley garage. To this day, Mr. Jobs speaks of his vision of Apple as "really building a company that would last and was important and stood for something, like H.P." 
Silicon Valley is sometimes portrayed as a place mainly populated by itinerant opportunists, with pricey strip malls and sports cars but no sense of the past. But the Valley, in fact, has a fairly rich history, and Hewlett-Packard is its wellspring -- a legacy of "Bill and Dave" and a corporate culture of doing everything possible to hold onto its work force regardless of swings in the business cycle.
In his statement opposing the merger, Mr. Packard declared, "For some time, I have been skeptical about management's confidence that it can aggressively reinvent H.P. culture overnight -- a culture that developed over many years and was thoroughly tested under all kinds of business conditions."
He bridled at the rationale that consolidation of overlapping operations would include at least 15,000 layoffs. "I am perfectly aware that H.P. has never guaranteed absolute tenure status to its employees," Mr. Packard wrote, "but I also know that Bill and Dave never developed a premeditated business strategy that treated H.P. employees as expendable."
"For over 50 years," he continued, "one of H.P.'s fundamental corporate objectives has been to provide long-term employment for its people."
Mr. Hewlett, Mr. Packard and the family foundations that have opposed the deal account for about 7 percent of the shares of Hewlett-Packard. But the largest single shareholder, the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, with a 10 percent stake in the company, is still studying the deal. The chairman of the foundation is Susan Packard Orr, a sister of Mr. Packard and a former Hewlett-Packard board member. If the foundation she oversees votes against the deal, it will be in deep trouble, analysts say. 
In a speech a few years ago, Ms. Packard Orr quoted her father as explaining, "Hewlett-Packard does not exist to make a profit, it exists to make a contribution."
But the company and its founders were able to support a large work force, enrich shareholders and endow major foundations because Hewlett-Packard was consistently profitable.
Mr. Hewlett, in particular, has focused squarely on shareholder value in his opposition to the deal. It is as a shareholder -- not as a family member preserving a legacy -- that he must make his claim in a proxy fight.
Walter Hewlett "can't just say, 'Dad would not do it,' " said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. "He has to make the case that Dad would not do it because the deal will not maximize shareholder value."
While Mr. Hewlett's filing did not indicate whether he would wage a full-scale proxy fight, soliciting shareholder votes to scuttle the deal, Hewlett-Packard is certainly preparing for it. The company announced last week that it had hired a second proxy solicitation firm, Innisfree, to assist its longstanding firm, Georgeson Shareholder Communications.
The lengthy analysis prepared for Mr. Hewlett was "very influential" in persuading him to oppose the deal, said his lawyer, Mr. Neal. "The conclusion that asset values would decline hit Walter like a blow to the stomach." 
Its findings, in sum, are that Compaq would bring mostly a struggling personal computer business and a collection of other equipment and service businesses with low profit margins. The combination, the study says, would reduce the profile of Hewlett-Packard's one stellar business -- computer printers and supplies -- thus undermining shareholder value.
The advisory firm also said the risks and disruption from trying to put two large companies together with very different corporate cultures, especially in the fast-moving computer industry, were enormous. "We don't believe there has ever been a single large computer merger that has succeeded," said Tully M. Friedman, a partner in the advisory firm Friedman Fleischer & Lowe.
For the same reason, some senior Hewlett-Packard executives were skeptical at first. "My reaction was exactly the same as Wall Street's when the idea was first presented to me -- big technology mergers don't work," said Robert Wayman, the chief financial officer.
But as Mr. Wayman examined the deal, seeing how much the two companies shared similar businesses and strategies, he concluded that the merger could be a winner -- including a projection that the combined company could achieve $2.5 billion a year in savings.
"The more I looked at the deal, the better it looked," Mr. Wayman said.
Hewlett-Packard management is betting that investors, especially the undecided Packard foundation, will come to the same conclusion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard, shown in Los Angeles on Nov. 7, has been fighting to persuade shareholders to support her plan for a merger with the Compaq Computer Corporation. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); FAMILY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (64%); COOLEY LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%); ALU (PAR) (64%); ALU (NYSE) (64%); ALU (BIT) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; FIORINA, CARLETON S; HEWLETT, WALTER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



695 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Welcoming A Return To Risk

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG'S mayoral victory showed that the city is willing to take risks. No one is in love with the idea that a billionaire bought the election. But perhaps it took a billionaire to buy City Hall out of the status quo. That independence, however come by, might work to the advantage of New York architecture.
 Since Mr. Bloomberg financed his own campaign, he didn't have to take donations from real estate developers. He shouldn't have to ease the way for them to put up junk. Nor should he have to go along with the junk pretensions of the developers' architects and their professional apologists. Public taste has been cultivated to expect more from architecture than mere "appropriateness." Mediocrity is not the people's choice. It's not elitist to make discriminations. The designer of genuine vision and integrity cannot be dismissed or marginalized as "avant-garde," "weird," "fashionable," "big ego," "difficult" or "architect of the day." 
 If the mayor-elect buys into this rancid way of thinking, it will be because he wants to, not because he must. Let's hope he doesn't want to. Now, more than ever, the city wants change. Mr. Bloomberg has an opportunity to achieve it by building on the city's progressive tradition. Architecture is an integral part of that. 
It's also promising, at least on a symbolic level, that Mr. Bloomberg is from the information industry. He's in the consciousness business, and consciousness is the business of all great cities. No building should be taller than the distance a voice can carry from the street, the Greeks said, which came to mind on Sept. 11 as I looked out the window of my apartment on the 44th floor of a high-rise in Lower Manhattan. In New York, however, public consciousness has not kept pace with the city's economic position in the world or with the technological and intellectual resources at its disposal. Our retrograde architecture is a glaring sign of that discrepancy.
New York architecture lost touch with reality in the mid 70's, when the fiscal crisis cast the city's future in doubt. In response to the mood of uncertainty, some architects and planners sought reassurance in theme park re-creations of more robust times. By the early 80's, the city witnessed the invasion of the paperweights: unconvincing remakes of Art Deco skyscrapers, designed to evoke the late 20's, as if the Depression itself could be bypassed this time around. It was a wrong turn. At a time when the infrastructure of the "informational city" was being laid down around the world, New York mistook the image of its future in a rear-view mirror.
These were lost years for the city, because they were transformative years for the world. Especially in the 12 years since the Berlin wall came down, New York has largely ignored the opportunity to reappraise its place in a rapidly evolving global structure. Even now, two months after the World Trade Center attack, decision makers are looking toward shopworn, parochial concepts to address challenges of planetary, millennial scope. Does anyone seriously think that the cultural, intellectual and philosophical issues raised by the attack lie within the competence of private developers and corporate architecture firms? Yet that insult to the intelligence may very well lie in store for New York.
"It is with a great sense of loss that we confront the opportunities ahead," proclaimed the draft of a statement prepared by the NYCRebuild Infrastructure Task Force, an ad hoc group initially formed by the New York City Partnership/Chamber of Commerce, the Real Estate Board of New York and the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects. It would take Jules Feiffer or a mime of genius to visually represent this sentence. I imagine a chorus of professional mourners, cloaked from head to toe as if for a performance by Martha Graham dancers, alternately wailing their grief and rubbing their hands in greedy expectation. Aiee! Aiee! Aiee! Rub rub rub rub rub.
True, the document, though widely circulated, was only a draft. It never appeared on the group's Web site. Also true, the task force has morphed into a less blatant form of ambulance chasing than it at first appeared. Still, someone wrote that sentence. Someone considered it an "appropriate" thought to put down on paper. Someone couldn't even get to the end of the sentence before grabbing onto the ambulance bumper. So long as the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan is driven mainly by market values, we should not expect the level of thinking to rise much higher.
In recent years, there has been some improvement in New York's architectural picture. New additions like the Rose Center for Earth and Space, the Austrian Cultural Institute and the LVMH Tower, and those under way like the American Museum of Folk Art, the Museum of Modern Art's ventures in midtown Manhattan and Queens, and the planned New York Times headquarters have refrained from scenographic reproductions of the past. With the exception of Raimund Abraham's design of the Austrian Cultural Institute, none of these projects take notable risks. But they have stirred memories of the city's progressive tradition and gained for it a public support that had languished.
Even more venturesome designs have appeared this year by Rem Koolhaas, Toyo Ito, Frank Gehry, Diller and Scofidio, Norman Foster, Peter Eisenman, Richard Meier and Jean Nouvel. Unfortunately, few will be built. But it will take more than a handful of buildings by famous architects to bring New York up to speed. Historical awareness, global consciousness, less tolerance for mediocrity, more tolerance for difference: these are some of the qualities that will have to be drawn upon. In New York they exist in greater abundance than anywhere on earth. But they have been denied a significant place in public service.
One quality stands out above the others: the willingness to take risks. Nobody does risk better than New York. It is the central feature of both modern culture and the capitalist system, which is symbolically based in Lower Manhattan. In the mayor's race two weeks ago, we learned how big a factor risk is in politics, too. And wouldn't it be a good thing if architecture were encouraged to reinforce this connection between power and imagination? Where is our urban mythology of risk?
Just a year ago, a news conference was held to announce Rudolph W. Giuliani's selection of the Guggenheim Museum's proposal to develop a city property on the East River at the foot of Wall Street. It was an oddly moving event. The mayor's public and private lives were then in such turmoil that it was scarcely possible to distinguish between them. Diagrams of his prostate gland appeared in the news. He was in headline-making divorce proceedings with his wife, Donna Hanover, who was appearing in "The Vagina Monologues." As if this were a horror movie version of his life, the mayor's fiercely armored persona had turned inside out.
At the news conference, the mayor stood at the podium beside Frank Gehry, architect of the Guggenheim's proposed museum in Lower Manhattan. The two were backed by a half-circle of museum and city officials. Jean Nathan, Mr. Giuliani's companion, stood off to one side. Mr. Gehry talked about the personal meaning of the project; about how, when he was growing up in Toronto, his father would tell him stories about New York, where he'd lived before emigrating to Canada. Later, he told a reporter that he hadn't planned to talk about his father, but when he got to the podium he spotted his son, Alejandro, standing at the back of the room. For a second, he saw a resemblance between his father and his son that he had never noticed before. Gehry's remarks were somewhat fumbling, but his point was unmistakable. New York is deeply embedded in the DNA of everyone who believes that modern democracy can't exist without great cities.
The mayor's remarks were mostly limited to the project's economic benefits. Not for the first time, I noted Mr. Giuliani's apparent indifference to architecture. But at one point, he departed from the script to acknowledge its "cultural and, if I may say, spiritual values." He stumbled on the first syllable of the word "spiritual," with the result that it came out sounding heartfelt, not the political boilerplate one expects on such occasions.
For that instant, there seemed to be a life connection between the two figures standing beside each other at the podium. Here was an artist who'd risen to international fame by projecting the inner life into the public sphere. Next to him was a politician who'd built a successful career out of being an emotional stranger to himself. The reporter wanted to shout out: "Hang onto that moment, mister! Redemption is calling!"
But the moment came so late in the game. We already knew by then what the mayor's architectural legacy was most likely going to be: bunkers, bollards, barricades and the restricted access they signified. Lower Manhattan since Sept. 11, in fact, has been an apotheosis of this legacy, an extreme monument to the rule of boundaries. And it could well be a portent of anti-terrorist measures to come.
The architectural expression of risk never stood much chance in Mr. Giuliani's New York. The goal of normalcy was pursued with far too much prosecutorial zeal. At the end, Mr. Giuliani has earned our gratitude for bringing order and confidence at a time of unprecedented crisis. Still, the damage inflicted on civil discourse has been graver than most people care to admit.
Mayor to advocates of community parks: Haven't they heard Marxism is over? You can listen to that sort of thing only so long before you start building walls inside your head. Until one day you just forget to breathe.
Another moment will stay with me a while. There's a route I sometimes take to get from home to the Lexington Avenue subway. It passes between the back of City Hall and the back of the old Tweed Courthouse, whose restoration is almost complete. In recent years, the gates to this pathway have often been closed. Hazardous building construction is the reason usually given, though I've sometimes given into the pathetic fallacy of seeing the gates as clues to the mayor's state of mind.
One afternoon last year, a week or so after the mayor pulled out of the senate race, the gates were open, and as I walked past City Hall I suddenly realized that I was breathing. I felt as free as the birds in City Hall Park. I thought, truly, I am not afraid to think.
It was a startling sensation, yet a familiar one. This was the New York atmosphere I used to know. The air in which it's possible to be yourself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Venturesome recent projects for New York: a competition entry for the Con Edison site on the East Side, above (OMA/KPF/DBB/Toyo Ito), by Kohn Pedersen Fox, Rem Koolhaas, Davis Brody Bond and Toyo Ito; Raimund Abraham's Austrian Cultural Institute, top right (Tobias Klutke); a model by Gehry Partners for the Astor Place Hotel. (Gehry Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HIJACKING (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); TERRORISM (62%) ARCHITECTURE; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



696 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
A Rush on Rent-a-Planes

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE ZOEPF 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
THE first time Millie Hernandez-Becker flew, as a 10-year-old on a family trip to Puerto Rico, she was awed by the experience.
 "It was on Pan Am, one of the first 747's, and we all dressed up like we were going to church," Ms. Hernandez-Becker said. "It made a great impression on me. Working for an airline seemed like the most glamorous thing in the world." 
 Although she lost her husband in a plane crash, and despite the use of hijacked planes in the terror attacks, the aviation industry has remained Ms. Hernandez-Becker's chosen career. As president and chief executive officer of Westchester Air in White Plains, she recently received the Business Woman of the Year award for the Northeast from the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce for her leadership in the charter airline industry. Since joining Westchester Air in 1986, Ms. Hernandez-Becker has been instrumental in building the business into a major local charter company. Westchester Air has 22 employees, 5 airplanes and regularly flies all over North America. Major clients include Phillips-Van Heusen, Playtex, Tommy Hilfiger and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Since Sept. 11, Westchester Air has seen its business go up by 40 percent, Ms. Hernandez-Becker said, due mainly, she believes, to increased security concerns. "As much as you hate to have it happen that way, Sept. 11 has made us more of a viable alternative for people," she said. "People know me, and they know I know who my pilots are. I know who's maintaining the planes, and who has access to them. All these factors suddenly become enormously important to people."
Before Sept. 11, the company flew an average of 70 to 80 hours a month. During October, Westchester Air logged 130 hours in the air, and has had flights almost every day. Westchester Air now expects to double its fleet by the end of January to meet the growing demand, and is planning to hire additional pilots and mechanics within the next few weeks, Ms. Hernandez-Becker said.
Barbara Beyer, president of the aviation consulting firm AVMARK, Inc., said interest in charter air travel was on the rise well before Sept. 11. "Increased congestion at airports, and increased concern for security have driven tremendous growth in charter air over the last couple of years," said Ms. Beyer. "Sept. 11 has really pushed it over the top."
Ms. Hernandez-Becker sees her role as providing "a service to our country by helping people get back to the business of doing business."
Raised on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants, Ms. Hernandez-Becker got her first aviation job in 1981. Then a 22-year-old first-grade teacher in the New York City public school system, she took a summer job with New York Air as a reservations agent at La Guardia Airport. 
Speaking from her office in Hangar M at Westchester County Airport, framed pictures of her 2-year-old son on a shelf behind her, Ms. Hernandez-Becker remembers her New York Air days fondly. "I just took a chance, and I loved it," Ms. Hernandez-Becker said. "It's the most magnetic industry. I'm a New York girl, born and bred, and here I was, meeting people from Ohio, California, Texas. It was very exciting." 
When the end of the summer came, Ms. Hernandez-Becker decided to ask the school where she taught for a leave of absence while she continued her training at New York Air. She has never looked back. Now, after more than 20 years in the field, she has held almost every job the airline business has to offer. From that first summer job as a reservations agent, Ms. Hernandez-Becker worked her way up to become a ticket agent, a flight attendant and finally a manager responsible for all ticketing, ground operations and baggage handling. She was recruited to join Westchester Air in 1985, by its founder, David M. Becker. Based at Westchester County Airport, the charter company began in 1983 as a small shuttle service flying only between White Plains and Nantucket. 
Mr. Becker was "one of the happiest people I ever knew," she said. They were married in 1990, and managed Westchester Air together. Mr. Becker was a pilot, and in 1994 he died in a plane crash, leaving Westchester Air to his wife. Ms. Hernandez-Becker recalled the period that followed as the hardest of her life. Many in the industry wondered if she would give up running the company, butshe did not feel that quitting was an option.
"We were a mom-and-pop business," she said. "We had no children, but Westchester Air was our baby. And I wanted to take care of our baby, and make it grow. The day after the funeral, when I had to come in to work and sit in his chair, was the hardest thing I ever had to do. But I think David would be very proud of where we are today."
Ms. Hernandez-Becker remarried four years ago, and she and her husband, Thomas A. Bush, a television executive, have a 2-year-old son, John Charles.
The 1990's were a period of great growth for the charter airline industry. Many American corporations were downsizing or streamlining their operations and no longer maintained their own corporate jets. Charter air services filled the breach, providing an affordable alternative to the commercial airlines for companies or individuals who needed more flexibility than the major airlines could provide. "We have flown helicopters, and we have flown a 757 to London," Ms. Hernandez-Becker said. "We run the gamut."
"The 90's were our toddler years," Ms. Hernandez-Becker said. "Because of the economic boom, an industry that was mainly a lot of small operators began to get high visibility. The advent of fractional ownership -- taking the time-share concept and applying it to jets -- was a pivotal point in our industry." 
Ms. Hernandez-Becker learned of her award by the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in August, and said that she feels very proud to have been so honored by an organization that has done so much to help Hispanic-run businesses, and to raise the buying power of the Hispanic market. 
"Ms. Hernandez-Becker is a real pioneer, the only Latina woman to hold that position in her field," said Ramon Rodriguez, a spokesman for the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. "She is an example of the kind of work ethic that we want to believe we can share with all of our youth today, so that they can pursue whatever dreams they have." 
Ms. Hernandez-Becker said she learned her determination from her parents. "My parents have such a work ethic that it would rival the Puritans. We all worked -- I worked my way through school. They gave us private education, and my father worked 14 hours a day to put three daughters through Catholic school."
When Ms. Hernandez-Becker was a child, her parents ran a small chain of bodegas in Washington Heights. In 1965, her father sold his bodegas, and bought a medallion taxi. Within a few years, he owned three medallion taxis. "My parents are my greatest inspiration, both personally and professionally," Ms. Hernandez-Becker said. "After all, I'm an air taxi operator. That's what I do. We run limos in the sky."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the planes, a King Air, in the Westchester Air fleet leaves from Westchester County Airport. Millie Hernandez-Becker, chief executive officer of the charter airline company, where she has 22 employees and 5 airplanes. She joined the company in 1986. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RENTING AND LEASING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); AVMARK INC (63%); PVH CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%) WESTCHESTER AIR (CO) 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); PVH (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (63%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) HERNANDEZ-BECKER, MILLIE; ZOEPF, KATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



697 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Cornfields 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In Maureen Dowd's Nov. 11 column, "Doubt of a Shadow," Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg quipped that any business that moved from New York City "might as well be in Iowa in the cornfields." Though he was being sarcastic, he is exactly right. 
 Iowa was not left behind in the technological revolution of the 1990's. Our Internet servers yield the same information crop of the 21st century. Our minds are as fertile as our soil. 
 This year, the New York-based company Earthweb opened the headquarters of its information technology job site, dice.com, not on Park Avenue, but just outside Des Moines. Earthweb is only one example of a high-tech business embracing Iowa's fields of opportunity, from fresh air to quality schools. Being rural is no longer a liability; it's charming.

NATHAN WINEGAR
Maquoketa, Iowa, Nov. 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) WINEGAR, NATHAN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) IOWA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



698 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2218 words

HEADLINE: So, Friend, It's Time for That Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
IN recent weeks, a steady parade of executives from industries like airlines and insurance companies, hotels and pharmaceutical companies, has trooped to Washington for handouts. Some have walked away with billions in aid. But those pleas pale when compared with the all-out lobbying push now under way -- a fight for broad and deep corporate tax cuts that are being measured in the hundreds of billions of dollars.
 Lining up in the corridors of the Capitol and the White House are the chief executives of some of the biggest corporations: Philip M. Condit of Boeing, Rick Wagoner of General Motors, Charles O. Holliday Jr. of DuPont, Glen A. Barton of Caterpillar, William T. Esrey of Sprint and John T. Dillon of International Paper, among others. 
 Their message is simple: We need tax cuts. They are intent on securing as much as $200 billion in tax relief over three years as part of a package to help the economy recover from recession and terrorism. As Congress tries to fashion an economic stimulus package, corporate lobbyists are swinging into high gear. 
"It's sort of a free-for-all," said James Albertine, president of the American League of Lobbyists. "It could be a long dry spell before anything like this comes around again. What is in play is a $100 billion tax bill, and the last time I looked, that was real money. Given the budget situation, when are you going to see another major tax bill go through Congress? It's like squirrels running around finding acorns and putting them in the ground for winter."
Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, an advocacy group that is critical of tax breaks, said he had not seen anything like it since 1981, when Ronald Reagan became president. "Basically they want to take us back to the 1980's, when half of the companies in the country were not paying any taxes," he said.
While many of the tax cuts in question are similar to ones that big business has long sought in Washington, the terrorist attacks have given the proposals new life. Many of these proposals were set aside after the passage last spring of President Bush's $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut, which was geared toward individuals. 
At that time, Mr. Bush told corporate lobbyists to wait their turn. Now, the lobbyists say, their time has come and they are not being shy. While they may not get all of what they are asking for, it is one of the most aggressive efforts in over a decade and one with the highest chances of success.
One proposal could provide instant tax-rebate checks to some of the biggest companies: $1.4 billion to I.B.M., $1 billion to Ford Motor, $833 million to General Motors and $671 million to General Electric. Another proposal would immediately cut by $1 billion the taxes of Wall Street firms with foreign operations. Still others would cut corporate taxes through faster depreciation schedules and more liberal rules on the use of tax losses.
A BUSINESS lobbying group, the Business Roundtable, has helped to arrange White House meetings for chief executives. Other executives have met with leading members of Congress from both parties. To their delight, business leaders say, they have been given red-carpet treatment by both the administration and Congressional Republicans. Even Democratic leaders, while less enthusiastic, have responded to some of their pleas.
"We've met with the White House, the secretaries of Treasury and Commerce and the House and Senate tax-writing leadership," said John J. Castellani, head of the Business Roundtable, which is promoting a reduction in overall corporate tax rates and in the payroll tax. "We describe to them our outlook on the economy and what is happening in our individual businesses."
At the same time, a coalition of big financial services companies is lobbying for industry-specific breaks. The chief executives and former chief executives of some of these companies -- including Sanford I. Weill of Citigroup, Philip J. Purcell of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, John F. Welch Jr. of General Electric, David H. Komansky of Merrill Lynch, Hugh L. McColl of Bank of America and Kenneth I. Chenault of American Express -- jointly signed a letter to Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, seeking support for a proposal to make permanent a temporary tax break on foreign profits for financial services companies.
The United States Chamber of Commerce, meanwhile, has lined up 1,100 partners, most of them other business trade groups and local chambers of commerce, to write to Congress and meet influential representatives and senators.
Corporate lobbyists argue that many of these tax cuts are needed to help improve their cash flow during an economic downturn and enable them to invest in their businesses and save jobs. It is unclear just how much of what they are seeking will ultimately be enacted into law. But the current betting is that much of it will be. The provisions likely to be successful include faster write-offs on new capital investments, more liberal use of tax losses and some changes in the alternative minimum tax, which requires that all corporations pay at least some taxes to the government each year.
Of course, not everyone is applauding these lobbying efforts. Critics, including Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who is now an executive at Citigroup, contend that the sweeping tax cuts sought by business would not provide an immediate economic kick and could wipe away any fiscal discipline in Washington. Even Mr. O'Neill first derided them as "show business."
Critics generally say that business tax cuts will do little to spur consumer demand and that there is no assurance that companies will use this fresh money in economically productive ways. Moreover, they say additional capital investment could only add more drag to an economy suffering from overcapacity.
Still, the success of the business lobby has been remarkable so far. After the terrorist attacks, the president and Congressional leaders quickly agreed to the broad outlines of a one-year economic stimulus plan of $50 billion to $75 billion to help those hurt most by the attacks and the economic downturn. In principle, it was to be a stimulus package with heavy emphasis on economic recovery and on increasing consumer confidence.
Since then, the plan has turned into a tax-cutting vehicle. The stimulus package passed by the House consists largely of tax cuts, with more than 70 percent of them going to corporations.
Vice President Dick Cheney, speaking last week at a United States Chamber of Commerce event in Washington, articulated business's message. "Tax relief is the way to go," Mr. Cheney said to an enthusiastic audience. It is "absolutely essential," he added, that tax cuts become part of the economic stimulus package as soon as possible.
Specifically, the House's version, which was passed on Oct. 24, contains the core of what business wants: elimination of the alternative minimum tax; the ability to offset current taxable income with losses going back five years, instead of the current two; faster depreciation schedules; and a continuation of the tax break on foreign profits of financial services firms.
The one-year cost of this package is estimated at $100 billion, and some Washington research groups put the bill at $212 billion over three years. For individuals, the House's version provides for a reduction in capital gains tax rates and an acceleration of the income-tax reductions enacted in June for middle-income people.
By contrast, Senate Democrats have geared their $73 billion stimulus package more heavily toward expanding unemployment and health insurance benefits and providing tax rebates for moderate- and low-income people.
But that version, too, contains about $20 billion in business tax cuts, mainly for faster depreciation schedules and some tax breaks for financial services firms.
SINCE Senate Democrats lacked enough votes for their bill, negotiations are under way to blend the House's version with some of what the Senate Democrats have proposed. Business lobbyists are working to make sure that much of the House version prevails.
"We are not engaging in special-favor lobbying," said Bruce Josten, an executive vice president at the United States Chamber of Commerce, which has spent $6.8 million on lobbying from January to June of this year, on top of $17 million last year.
"There's a huge difference between the two bills," he added. "The Democratic version is more the tail wagging the dog. It's clearly to soften the blow of unemployment. There's nothing wrong with that. But it seems the economy is sagging fast, and my point is that we remain in a negative corporate earnings environment."
To promote its view, the chamber is joining with a tax-relief coalition that was formed last year to support the Bush administration's earlier tax cuts and is now promoting the House bill. Mr. Josten says his group is receiving strategic help from Kenneth J. Kies, Washington's pre-eminent tax lobbyist, who is also representing General Motors, General Electric, I.B.M., Schering-Plough and the American Council of Life Insurers in this battle.
Mr. Kies is one of the heads of the 650-person Washington tax office of PriceWaterhouse Coopers, a former chief of staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation and a Republican fund-raiser. He declined to be interviewed for this article, citing a critical editorial about his lobbying activities published on Nov. 13 by The Washington Post as the reason.
But some of his clients are talking. William H. Noack, a director in the Washington lobbying office of General Motors, said his company was backing the elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax and is seeking a rebate of alternative minimum taxes already paid. That could provide an immediate check of around $800 million for G.M., which last year paid taxes at a 1.5 percent rate.
Mr. Noack said his company supported the measure because "it would return money to companies, to G.M., which we would then use to invest in the business." Specifically, he said the money would be directed to the automaker's $6.6 billion research and development budget. "It's a way to get money into plants and products," he said. In the first six months of this year, General Motors spent $2 million on Washington lobbying.
Many corporate lobbyists say that this unexpected second chance at tax cuts may be the last one for a while. For that reason, they are adopting a now-or-never approach.
What is particularly striking to some is that tax cuts on this scale are even being contemplated.
"If we go back to before Sept. 11, you had the Democrats talking about wanting to reverse some of the Bush tax cuts," said Jeffery Eisenach, president of the Progress and Freedom Foundation, a Washington research group. "What you are seeing is a complete about-face on all fronts in terms of what is good economic policy. Now the Democrats are talking about some tax cuts, and the Bush administration is arguing for even bigger ones."
I.B.M. is one of the biggest potential beneficiaries; it is lobbying hard for the elimination of the alternative minimum tax. Last year, I.B.M. paid taxes at a rate of 10.8 percent of its $2.9 billion in pretax earnings in the United States. Had the alternative minimum tax not been in effect, I.B.M.'s tax rate would have been 7.6 percent, according to Citizens for Tax Justice, the tax policy advocacy and research group. If the alternative minimum tax is repealed, I.B.M. could get a $1.4 billion tax rebate check.
"When people start looking at economic stimulus, they look at the alternative minimum tax," said Timothy Sheehy, a spokesman for I.B.M. "It was a natural thing to look at." Of the rebate, he added: "It's a good way to stimulate the economy."
GENERAL ELECTRIC, which paid taxes last year at a rate of 8 percent of its pretax American profits of $9.7 billion, is not lobbying for the repeal of the alternative minimum tax. Instead, it is focusing on provisions that would allow financial services companies, like its GE Capital subsidiary, to retain tax breaks on money earned from offshore operations.
When Gary Sheffer, a General Electric spokesman, was asked why the company was not lobbying for the repeal of the alternative minimum tax, which could give the company an immediate $671 million, Mr. Sheffer said, "On a net basis, it's not a significant issue for our company."
Still, car makers and other capital-intensive companies are pursuing the elimination of the alternative minimum tax because it requires such highly cyclical companies to pay taxes even in years of losses or poor earnings.
Stuart Schorr, public affairs manager for DaimlerChrysler, said its top lobbying goal was the repeal of the alternative minimum tax, a move that could give the company an immediate $600 million rebate. "That's money that will go to our bottom line and will help us invest in new products," Mr. Schorr said. "It will keep companies healthy and investing; it will keep employees working. That's part of the economic challenge of today."
At Ford, which could get a $1 billion rebate if the alternative minimum tax is repealed, Ellen Dickson, a spokeswoman, said: "We believe the country needs an economic stimulus package, and the package should do things that could increase consumer confidence. We want people to buy cars." '

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about lobbying for corporate tax cuts in Washington misstated the relationship between Kenneth J. Kies, a Washington lobbyist, and a tax-relief coalition put together by the United States Chamber of Commerce. While Mr. Kies and the coalition are both lobbying for Congressional enactment of such tax cuts, he is not providing strategic help to it. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lobbyists like Kenneth J. Kies of PricewaterhouseCoopers are arguing for corporate tax breaks as part of economic stimulus legislation. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. 13) Drawing (Christophe Vorlet)(pg. 1) Chart: "Corporate Breaks"Corporations would be the biggest beneficiaries of a bill passed by the House to stimulate economic activity. PERCENTAGE SHARE OF COSTS: Corporate and business tax cuts2002 (Cost of $102.9 bil.): 68.6%Over 10 years (Cost of $167.3 bil.): 42.5% PERCENTAGE SHARE OF COSTS: Tax cuts primarily for low- and moderate income taxpayers2002 (Cost of $102.9 bil.): 14.5Over 10 years (Cost of $167.3 bil.): 43.2 PERCENTAGE SHARE OF COSTS: Spending and tax provisions for unemployed workers2002 (Cost of $102.9 bil.): 13.3Over 10 years (Cost of $167.3 bil.): 8.2 PERCENTAGE SHARE OF COSTS: Extensions of expiring tax provisions2002 (Cost of $102.9 bil.): 3.2Over 10 years (Cost of $167.3 bil.): 4.0 PERCENTAGE SHARE OF COSTS: Tax cuts primarily for upper income taxpayers2002 (Cost of $102.9 bil.): 0.4Over 10 years (Cost of $167.3 bil.): 2.0 (Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); TRENDS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (57%); BOEING CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RICK WAGONER (55%); CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



699 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE STUDENTS; 
Eager for Foreign Students, Universities Persuade Senator to Drop Plan to Limit Visas

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
An effort to impose a federal moratorium on student visas in the wake of September's terrorist attacks has foundered after an intense lobbying campaign by university officials, who feared the pause would deal a crippling blow to advanced research programs and to the bottom lines of colleges and universities. 
 In the days after the attack, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, proposed a six-month moratorium on the issuance of such visas as part of the general effort to tighten the nation's security. University officials who argued against the visa restrictions invoked the lofty values of international education: spreading democracy, promoting knowledge and forging ties with future leaders abroad. 
 But the clash illustrated a more prosaic, pressing side to their concern: the growing financial and intellectual dependence of universities on students from overseas, particularly for graduate programs in the sciences, engineering and math. 
A report released this week by the Institute of International Education found that 547,667 foreign students attended American colleges and universities in the academic year ending in June 2001, a 6.4 percent jump over the previous year and the biggest single-year increase in two decades. Nearly 11 percent come from China, followed by India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Canada. While Middle Eastern states, particularly those on the State Department's list of nations that sponsor terrorism, are not among the top sources of foreign students, Senator Feinstein raised concerns in hearings about some 16,000 students from states that sponsor terrorism who have studied in the United States over the last decade. 
An analysis by the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities shows that although foreign students accounted for 3.4 percent of total enrollment in colleges and universities in 2000, they paid an estimated 7.9 percent of tuition and fees American universities received that year. 
International students and their families pump $11 billion a year into the American economy for tuition and fees, housing, living expenses and consumer goods. International education is considered a form of trade, and shows up as one of the largest service-industry exports, said Victor C. Johnson, public policy director of the Association of International Educators. 
The largest number of foreign students, 74,281, is in California, where the Institute of International Education estimates they spent nearly $1.6 billion in the last academic year. New York is second, with 58,286 foreign students spending $1.3 billion. 
Ineligible for the most common forms of financial aid, like Pell grants, foreign undergraduates tend to pay full freight at a time when 84 percent of Americans attending private universities receive financial aid of some sort. At state institutions, foreigners are charged the highest rates of tuition, corresponding to those for out-of-state residents.
At the University of Nebraska, foreigners account for 21 percent of graduate students. Merlin P. Lawson, who is both dean of graduate studies and dean of international affairs, said that a six-month moratorium on student visas "would have been devastating, initially." Because future applications also depend on alumni recommendations, the long-term impact would have been severe as well, he said, echoing the reaction at many universities.
At the Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, Randall Hansis, the dean of academic studies, said foreign students were "great on work-study." 
"Talk about a work ethic," Dean Hansis said. "It's sometimes embarrassing to see the American students next to them."
With American students ranking poorly over all in international science and math competitions, universities said they would suffer if they could not turn to international students to fill out such courses. 
"We have tremendous difficulty in getting American citizens to apply for, enroll and be qualified in many of our engineering and science areas," said Mark Kamlet, provost at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, one of the nation's premier research institutions. 
At Carnegie Mellon, 47 percent of the doctoral degrees issued in 1999 were awarded to students from other nations. At the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark, the figure was 80 percent. At the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, foreign students earned 73 percent of the doctorates. At Rockefeller University in New York, 61 percent of the doctorates awarded in 1999 went to students from abroad. 
From research universities to small colleges, institutions also court overseas students to burnish their international credentials. Many parents, aware that their children will have to function in a global economy, seek out universities that expose students to other cultures. 
"Every university is looking for students who have to pay the maximum there is to pay," said Jurg Gerber, director of the office of international programs at Sam Houston State University in Huntsville, Tex. But Mr. Gerber said he believed the primary motivation for recruiting overseas students was not financial. "There's more of a concern with internationalizing the educational program," he said.
Mr. Johnson agreed. "The first opportunity many students have to have interaction with foreigners is when they enroll at Montana State, say, and meet them there," he said.
In organizing the campaign against the visa moratorium, the American Council on Education, which represents the presidents of universities and colleges, warned members that any pause in visas "would wreak havoc on graduate schools, which rely heavily on international students and scholars to assist with teaching and research." 
The letter, signed by a broad range of groups representing public and private institutions, urged university presidents to press Ms. Feinstein directly to drop her proposal. David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, arranged for officials from top universities, including California State, the University of California, Stanford and Georgetown, to meet separately with the senator and with her staff.
An aide said that Ms. Feinstein saw the pause as a way of giving the government time to get an electronic tracking system for foreign students up and running, and that she was not completely surprised by the opposition. 
"Obviously, international education is a very big business," said the aide. "Many people who wrote said, 'International education means this much to our university.' " 
In the meetings, academics and their lobbyists also suggested that singling out foreign students would embarrass Senator Feinstein and prove of little usefulness over time, since they account for only 2 percent of all visa holders. They argued that six months would be insufficient to get the tracking system running, Dr. Ward recalled. 
The aide to Ms. Feinstein noted that despite dropping the moratorium proposal, the senator, who is chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Technology and Terrorism, had introduced a broader bill to tighten immigration policies and to force government agencies to share information on suspected criminals and terrorists overseas.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Foreign Students"The percentage of international students at American colleges and universities has been rising. Graph showing the increase in international students at American colleges and universities. (Source: Institute of International Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (97%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (96%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); LOBBYING (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); AIRLINES (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); VISAS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN STUDENTS; TERRORISM; TUITION; FINANCES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; MATHEMATICS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (91%) ;INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (89%) FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



700 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Looks for Change in Sudan 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: KAUDA, Sudan, Nov. 16 

 BODY:
Nobody ran, as they usually do, when an airplane swept in low over the Nuba Mountains in Sudan the other day. For a change, it was food aid and not government bombs showering down on the people of Nuba, one of the most remote and wretched areas of a vast country at war with itself for 18 years.
 In the first sustained aid effort in a decade to reach these mountains, planes allowed in by Sudan's government ferried food to about 150,000 people caught here in determined rebellion against the rulers of the north, and the capital, Khartoum. 
 Corn, lentils and salt, in 55-pound sacks, are plummeting down several times each day from the cargo holds of C-130 supply planes. In allowing these shipments to people it has repeatedly bombed, the Sudanese government is seeking to present a more moderate face to the United States. 
Just three years ago, Khartoum was on the receiving end of American missile attacks, a response to the bombings of American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998 for which Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda were blamed.
Writing Sudan off as a terrorist menace that played host to Mr. bin Laden until he was expelled under American pressure in 1996, the Clinton administration slapped sanctions on the country and sought to isolate it.
Interest in Sudan revived this year in part because the country is involved with two of the Bush administration's most important constituencies: oil and religion.
Oil began flowing in 1998, much to the ire of American Christians who saw the revenue as enriching the Muslim government, enabling it to buy arms and continue killing Christians in the country's south. The civil war and war-related famine have claimed an estimated two million lives since the early 1980's.
Religious leaders in the United States and other critics of the Khartoum government have pressed the White House to work for an end to the war, some of them pushing for the southern rebels to be supplied with weapons to counter government attacks.
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, Sudan has sought mightily to change its image as a rogue state. The government has turned over the names of suspected bin Laden allies to Washington and granted the Pentagon permission to send military flights over Sudan's air space.
While the White House has welcomed those moves, President Bush recently extended sanctions imposed in 1997 to encourage the country to sever its links to terrorists and to end human rights abuses -- including the enslavement of Christians in southern Sudan, which has drawn wide criticism, particularly on Capitol Hill. 
For the Bush administration, the test of whether Sudan has really changed its ways will begin here. The White House's newly appointed special envoy for Sudan, John C. Danforth, was permitted this week to visit the rebel-held areas, an about-face for a government that has repeatedly objected to past American delegations in the south.
Still, the Sudanese government sent mixed signals. Several days before Mr. Danforth landed at the airport here, relief workers reported shelling that was believed to have come from a government army garrison.
Some American officials viewed the attacks as an attempt to scare off Mr. Danforth, and there were recommendations that the trip be scrapped. When Mr. Danforth raised the issue of the shelling with Sudanese leaders in Khartoum, they denied involvement.
Also, the government has permitted the relief flights to the Nuba Mountains for only a month -- fearful, it says, that a longer program would be used to carry arms to the southern rebels.
After watching bags of food tumble from the sky this week, the American entourage moved through the southern towns of Rumbek, Wancuei and Turali, all controlled by the rebels of the Sudanese People's Liberation Army.
In Rumbek and elsewhere, Mr. Danforth encountered fierce criticism of the Sudanese government. He heard Christians complain that they were persecuted by the Islamic north. "We don't want to be Islamics," said Gabriel Kuc Abiei, the headmaster of a school. "We want to exist as ourselves."
In Wancuei, residents showed Mr. Danforth bombed-out buildings that they said had been leveled by government troops. "Unless you help us, you will not find us here for long," said Peter Fan Nyal, leaning on a staff in the shade under a tree.
In Turali, a woman stopped in the center of a crowded market to recount for Mr. Danforth how she had been abducted by government-backed militiamen, who she said raped her and forced her to work for no pay. "I escaped but my children are still there," said Nyandt Deng Del.
As he moved through the mountains this week, Mr. Danforth, who has said he seeks to end the war, not apportion blame for its many atrocities, expressed surprise at this region's extreme poverty and reports of disease.
Mr. Danforth, an Episcopalian minister, repeatedly asked people about their religious background and their freedom to pray without interference. "We know that there will be no peace in this country or any country if people feel they are being oppressed, mistreated or prevented from practicing their religion," he said.
Mr. Danforth said he arrived with no detailed peace plan, but he called for an end to the bombing of civilians, a halt in abductions and slavery and an agreement to allow immunizations to go forward.
He also called for a permanent cease-fire in the Nuba Mountains.
The Sudanese government responded coolly to the proposals, American officials said. Some of the rebel leaders pleaded with Mr. Danforth for American military support. Others argued for a divided Sudan, with the northerners segregated from those in the south.
"Separate us, please," insisted Lewis Ane Kuendit, a teacher. "We are different people. There is no other way to bring peace."
Concluding his visit, Mr. Danforth acknowledged that conditions were grimmer and the prospects for peace less likely than he had imagined. "Am I pessimistic?" he said. "I wouldn't bet much on this. They've been at it for a long time and there's a great deal of mistrust between the parties. 
But, on the other hand, what is this fighting accomplishing? It may be that people will say, 'Enough is enough.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Villagers in Wancuei in southern Sudan listening to American officials on a tour of the country that included rebel-held towns. The villagers told the delegation that they needed help.; The American envoy, John C. Danforth, in Wancuei village jumping over a slain cow -- a Sudanese ritual to welcome honored guests. (Photographs by Marc Lacey/The New York Times) Map of Sudan highlighting Kauda: Kauda, in Sudan's Nuba Mountains, is finally receiving food aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FAMINE (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%) LACEY, MARC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; DANFORTH, JOHN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); KENYA (79%) SUDAN; KAUDA (SUDAN)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001 



701 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Budget-Cut Victims 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Losing Control" (editorial, Nov. 13):
 New York City's recovery is going to be complicated by the promise of state and city budget cuts so deep that they will affect every New Yorker but also fall disproportionately on children, who use public services like schools, day care centers, parks, playgrounds and libraries at a higher rate than other population groups. 
 New Yorkers don't yet fully appreciate the reductions in quality of life that will occur in at least the short term. To date, the building and recovery discussions have focused almost exclusively on the physical rebuilding of the World Trade Center site and the bold efforts needed to retain businesses and create jobs. Our leaders would do well to remember that a strong local economy depends on families who are willing to live, work and raise their children here.

GAIL B. NAYOWITH
Executive Director
Citizens' Committee for Children
New York, Nov. 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); FAMILY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); JOB CREATION (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR CHILDREN (56%)

PERSON: NAYOWITH, GAIL B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



702 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneurs' Pride 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Small Businesses Slow to Grasp Government's Helping Hand" (news article, Nov. 13): 
 The act of becoming an entrepreneur is an act of exerting independence -- psychologically as well as economically. When one takes that momentous step, in a sense one says, "I will accept the risks, challenges, downsides and frustrations to be my own person." It's most often not just business; it's a mission. 
 So to many entrepreneurs, the prospect of asking for government aid, after having achieved goals and overcome obstacles, can be perceived less as an opportunity than as an admission of defeat, whether economically wise or not.

ARLEN R. LESSIN
New York, Nov. 13, 2001

The writer is a professor at the Alan P. Kirby Center for Free Enterprise and Entrepreneurship, Wilkes University.
But on weekends, he took on a different job: "He had this special thing, on weekends, when there would be a bunch of boys sleeping over," said his brother, Buddy Smith. "It might be 12 or 15 hungry young men from the swim team. Karl would make these breakfast menus and type them up, and pass them out the night before. Around election time, I remember, he had a dish on there called the W. In the morning, he'd get up early and make everyone what they wanted."

DOUGLAS B. GARDNER
Cards Full of Mad Love
When Joseph Gardner took his young son, Douglas B. Gardner, to watch his first Knicks game, Douglas said he wanted to play basketball in Madison Square Garden. His father told him he would have to own the team to do that.
So Douglas Gardner, who grew up to be a good athlete, playing basketball on outdoor courts across the city, became a businessman. He worked for Lehman Brothers, his father's real estate business and finally, joined a college classmate at Cantor Fitzgerald, where he became executive managing director.
Despite his long hours at work, Mr. Gardner, 39, had the time to be the core of many groups of friends. He watched out for his younger sister, Danielle, who he even invited to Haverford College weekends while she was in high school. And he would not miss an important event for his children, Michael, 5, and Julia, 2 1/2. He taught Michael how to ride a two-wheel bike this summer; on Sept. 10, he was at the orientation for his children at nursery school.
For his wife, Jennifer, he marked every important date with cards -- often five or six for each occasion. The cards came with long personal notes and always included, "I love you madly!!!"

JAMES DOUGLAS HALVORSON
Meticulous in Work and Play
As a managing director at Marsh & McLennan, the insurance brokerage company where he worked for 30 years, James Douglas Halvorson was meticulous in structuring complex deals for construction projects in Pakistan, Indonesia and other third world countries. He was similarly methodical in his pleasures.
When he decided to run in the New York City Marathon about 10 years ago, for example, he cut back on the good meals and wines that he loved. "He was very meticulous about keeping to his training schedule," said his son, Douglas James Halvorson. "He was totally focused on the job at hand. It was the only marathon he ever did, and he was very proud of doing it."
Douglas James Halvorson said his father, an avid Giants fan, had season tickets near the 50-yard line, and had a system for attending games, sometimes with his wife, Maureen, and often with his son. He would arrive by 11:30 a.m., park right by the Stadium Club entrance and eat lunch there at a table just to the left of the bar -- usually a turkey sandwich, "lite mayo on whole wheat toast," his son said.
As for the game, much as he liked the action, Mr. Halvorson, 56, would usually leave at the end of the third quarter. "He wanted to beat the rush," his son said. "He had it all rigged."

PETER A. VEGA
Always Ready to Help
Regan Grice-Vega was pregnant and was on the way to the doctor for a checkup with her husband, Peter Vega, when they spotted a car stalled on the side of the road. In it was a woman who had been rushing to the hospital to see her husband, who had had a heart attack. Mr. Vega pushed her car to a safe spot and then drove her to the hospital.
"We were late for our appointment, as usual, but that is the kind of person Peter was," Mrs. Grice-Vega said. "If he was cleaning out our gutter, he would clean the neighbor's, too."
Mr. Vega, 36, a firefighter who was a member of Ladder Company 118 in Brooklyn Heights, called his wife just before he left for the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. They had been married five years. She was a fervent Knicks fan, and he proposed to her at Madison Square Garden with a message on the big screen at half-time.
On Nov. 10, she returned to the Garden for the first time since Sept. 11, for a Knicks game against Golden State. Her father-in-law got her two seats on the floor, and she took her twin brother. "When I went with Peter, we were always up," Mrs. Grice-Vega said. "My father-in-law was on a mission to make sure I had a good night."
"It was bittersweet," she added. "It was fun -- but hard."

DOUGLAS G. KARPILOFF
Security and Sweetness
After the World Trade Center was bombed in 1993, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey made Douglas G. Karpiloff the director of security and life safety for the center. He installed an array of protective systems, including huge concrete planters around the towers, a strict set of building passes and an identification and tracking system for vehicles entering the basement. He was also called in to consult about security in Denver before Timothy McVeigh's trial for the Oklahoma City bombing and on how to protect the White House and other federal buildings. Last year, his industry trade group named him security director of the year.
"He was always trying to think out of the box," said Alan Reiss, the former director of the Port Authority's World Trade Department. "Doug set up all kinds of procedures that became the new norm for signature office buildings."
As he increased security, Mr. Karpiloff, 53, was concerned that the tenants he was trying to protect still be treated as people. That meant getting security guards to say good morning and putting out candy near the guard desks at Halloween. "Even if you were turned away, he wanted it to be a positive experience," Mr. Reiss said. "He came to me with all of these ideas, like, 'I'm going to spend $2,000 on candy.' All of these little things made a dramatic difference."
After Silverstein Properties took over operation of the towers in July, Mr. Karpiloff had remained for a few months as a member of the transition team. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transcription error, a letter yesterday about entrepreneurs misspelled part of the name of a center at Wilkes University, where the letter writer is a professor. It is the Allan P. Kirby Center for Free Enterprise and Entrepreneurship (not Alan). 
A biographical sketch on Sunday about Salvatore Gitto, a World Trade Center victim who was a risk insurance manager and liked to fly planes, misidentified his employer. It was Marsh & McLennan, not Aon Insurance. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathy Mazza's family attended her memorial Mass yesterday at Maria Regina Roman Catholic Church in Seaford, N.Y. Ms. Mazza was a captain with the Port Authority Police. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B10); Pictures of the 14 firefighters from Engine Company 4 and Ladder Company 15 who died on Sept. 11 are on display in a shrine outside the firehouse on South Street in Manhattan. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BASKETBALL (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SWIMMING (68%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (66%); TRENDS (66%); REAL ESTATE (65%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (50%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (50%); MHM (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%)

PERSON: LESSIN, ARLEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



703 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Fiber, fiber everywhere.Some call it excess capacity, but others say it is greatly needed inventory.

BYLINE:  By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
COMMON sense dictates that if something is 95 percent empty, then just 5 percent of its capacity is being used.
 But according to the new math used by many telecommunications companies, key links in their fiber optic networks can be operating at or near capacity even if, collectively, the nation's fiber networks are 95 percent empty. Judging from the bankruptcies of carriers like 360 Networks and PSINet, and the stock prices of big survivors like Level 3 Communications and Global Crossing, the financial world is not too impressed with the new math. To Wall Street, a glut by any other name is still a glut. 
 The carriers' argument, which has been bouncing around the troubled telecommunications industry for most of this year, is that a distinction must be drawn between the total fiber put in the ground and the fiber that is currently equipped to transmit voice, video and data. 
The large majority of fiber installed during the huge building spree of the late 1990's is not yet connected to the optical and electronic equipment that is needed to transmit information over that fiber. As the industry sees it, the millions of miles of idle fiber they own should be seen more as a strategic inventory, rather than as excess capacity. 
"Overbuilding for a couple of years is not the same as a glut," said Richard Mack, an analyst at KMI, a market research firm in Providence, R.I. 
As long as they were lining up rights of way and digging trenches, the carriers say, it made sense to put all that extra fiber in the ground in expectation of future network growth. The investment to lay hundreds of fibers is not much greater than the cost of laying a single strand. By contrast, actually "lighting" a fiber to carry information requires the installation of switching and signaling equipment that costs 8 to 10 times as much as the fiber. 
The carriers say that because they defer the big investments to light up the fiber as long as possible, the actual supply of bandwidth is much more in balance with demand than what many investors believe. 
"Our utilization rate is running between 60 percent and 80 percent of available bandwidth," said Dan Scheinbein, vice president for network architecture and development at AT&T, one of the carriers with routes included in the survey. 
He says the company keeps adding new carrying capacity so that AT&T can add new customers without loading the network beyond the 80 percent utilization level that provides a buffer against overloads during traffic surges. "We don't want to run too hot," Mr. Scheinbein said. 
The carriers and fiber suppliers argue that demand for new bandwidth is still growing strongly, with middle-of-the-road projections of 70 percent annual growth through 2005. So they say they will need to start laying still more long-distance fiber within 18 months.
Despite these glass-is-way-more-than-half-full assessments, control of some fiber networks has been sold -- or snapped up in bankruptcy -- at a fraction of its market value two years ago. Companies that lost out were start-ups like GST Telecommunications that borrowed heavily to build their networks only to find they were unable to attract customers fast enough to begin paying down those debts.
Now that the weakest players have retreated or disappeared altogether, the carriers say the industry is returning to a more stable pattern in which declining prices for network use will be in response to falling costs -- not price wars. Still, there is no sign in the current economic climate of pent-up demand that would make it worthwhile for operators to speed up spending on to light up more of the installed fiber.
Moreover, the production of new glass fiber for long-haul routes has slowed to a crawl. The market for fiber used in in short-distance links within metropolitan areas is growing -- but at much too slow a rate to compensate for the drop-off in the long-haul market. Corning, the fiber industry leader, has shut down its plants until the end of the year. And much of the equipment being used to light additional existing fibers has been coming out of inventories, forcing components vendors like JDS Uniphase and Nortel to lay off thousands of production workers.
The outlook might be easier to forecast if the fiber networks truly resembled the two older networks to which they are often compared: highways and railroads.
The highway metaphor is popular because the crucial missing links are within the metropolitan networks that connect businesses and homes to the high-speed long-distance fiber. These metropolitan networks are often seen as the communications equivalent of congested highway on-ramps and off-ramps.
But the comparison quickly breaks down. While any car can use any highway on-ramp, there is a wide variety of equipment used in metropolitan networks, installed and operated by a diverse group of companies. The industry has yet to come up with standards making it easy to create unified networks from the competing technologies.
In short, there is no easy way to predict how quickly the metropolitan bottlenecks can be eliminated and how rapidly that might lead to a surge in demand for today's unused long-haul fiber. If highway ramps are the popular analogy for metropolitan networks, the long-distance communications network is also often compared with the intercity railroad system. Superficially, the telecommunications industry's story of many rivals borrowing heavily and outspending one another to create far more capacity than the market could support does seem to trace the pattern of the railroad barons of the late 19th century. 
Here too, though, the comparison misses the fundamental novelty of the newer network. Once the tracks were laid, railroad operators increased the capacity of their lines by introducing higher-speed trains, better signals and other innovations. 
In addition, while railroad tracks changed little in the decades after they were put down, many communications engineers predict that new types of fiber now being developed will be so much more efficient than earlier types that much of today's unlighted fiber will become obsolete before it is ever used.
If that happens, carriers will be saddled with worthless assets. That would settle the "glut" debate once and for all.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); FIBER OPTICS (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS 

COMPANY: LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (54%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



704 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
For a Trio at the State Fair, No Grand Nights for Singing

BYLINE:  By RICHARD EDER

 BODY:
GREAT AMERICAN PLAIN
By Gary Sernovitz
228 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $23.
Precariously unbalanced between comedy and desolation, Gary Sernovitz's first novel sets three misguided spirits groping toward one another and missing. Their misdirections are distinct and individual, but they reflect a wider decay and displacement.
 The scene is the annual state fair in an upper Midwest state, unnamed but clearly modeled on the author's native Wisconsin. Its advertised image is "red-barn, verdant, lakes and livestock and bright circley suns." In fact, though, the fairground is "set in concrete and overpasses and the blotchy siding of a downshifting suburb. . . . Country nostalgia was canned, pickled and sold." 
 America's reality -- economic consolidation and job downsizing, agricultural consolidation and the demise of family farms -- makes obsolete America's lagging self-image. Millions of individual self-images, accordingly, are left orphaned. Such is the theme of "Great American Plain," elaborated with a mix of flair and strain, fledgling freshness and unfledged awkwardness. Two of the orphaned are brothers, Ed and Barry Steinke. With respective manic zeal and disbelieving torpor, they operate one of the stands at the fair. The third is Leila Genet, uprooted and shaky, who drifts into a brief, botched encounter with Ed and Barry.
The opening scene is quite wonderful. Ed, in an era when the kind of solid lifelong job held by his father is no longer available, has thrown himself into selling. Not just ordinary flogging, as folksily practiced by the neighboring knife salesman, but a whole theology of "Perfect Execution" picked up from a book. Appropriately grand, and absurd among the conveniently small-ticket items displayed all around, is what he is trying to sell: a giant Brackett 180-X organ.
"Hundreds of pounds of top American engineering and musicianship," he boasts to a woman who pauses to look at the Korean-made behemoth. Noting her flinch, he hastens to reverse: "At the same time that it is big, ma'am, it's also compact. Really small, for all it can do."
His increasingly hopeless efforts to make a sale (he draws encouragement when one small nose-picker halts excavations to listen to his spiel) only heat up his fiery, furious faith in Perfect Execution.
Recipient of his rants and fury is Barry, hired to demonstrate the organ but preferring to stare at the young women passing. Barry is a victim of another American success illusion. He had started a high school rock band but, able to recognize failure (unlike Ed), closed it down. Less manic than his brother, he is seemingly more open to reality. This, however, takes the form of serial affairs (another illusion) until he meets the glance of Leila passing by and believes himself to be in love.
Leila, though, is skittish, having had various unpleasant incidents with assorted male stereotypes. She flees but returns eventually. There takes place a remarkably original, remarkably well-sensed progression in which all three (Ed joins them) drink beer and helped by it advance tentatively out of sales mania, seducer's apathy and victim fear, respectively, to resurrect briefly their alienated selves. The moment gives way to arbitrary melodrama.
There is a startling contrast of strengths and weaknesses in Mr. Sernovitz's novel. Some of the set pieces are skillful. Besides Ed's comical efforts at selling his organ and the scene just mentioned, there are two extended passages, one dealing with his descent from grandiosity to work out his disastrous accounts at the end of the day, the other with Barry's resigned efforts to make a go of his band. The author knows how things work, and don't work, and recounts the knowledge impressively.
Other scenes are unconvincing. For example an account of a vague pass made by one of Leila's professors and her panicky reaction. On the other hand there is a dolefully comic portrait of a stolid, brutish early lover who believes that courtship consists mainly of asking questions. Leila reacts with decent gumption, but for much of the time she is too exaggeratedly fragile to be believable.
None of the three main characters seem to have much existence of their own. The author configures them, sometimes very well and at other times not so well, but among their performances they tend to sag. They represent what Mr. Sernovitz has to say about the ersatz qualities in a largely postagricultural Midwest (a factory farm is a factory, not a farm). And he can be provocative, amusing and sometimes moving.
There is the number he does on cream puffs, the fair's gastronomic specialty. "To the foreigner, to the traitorous, the puffs weren't much to speak of; the coat of powdered sugar poorly disguised the bread's kinship to a burger bun; the filling, a cup of whipped cream, tasted like the clouds, which meant like not much at all."
But: "You had to have a cream puff, like you had to visit the poultry building, because even if you were an accountant or a mechanic or a housewife -- especially if you were one of those -- you were still part of the land that fed the cows that provided the milk that made the cream that filled the puffs that made you fat that made you dead and part of the land. We are all, we are all, we are all farmers, farmers who have lost our way."
And in a scene whose nostalgia nevertheless fixes the author's theme, Leila slips from panic and briefly touches ground. Peter, her grandfather, who brought her up, made her learn all the parts of a cow's anatomy and kept yellowed photographs of his own grandfather, who was the last in the family to work on the land. She visits the fair's cattle enclosure and finds a girl grooming her prize cow.
"Leila felt, That girl is me. She was Leila if Max Luden hadn't lost the farm and Peter Luden hadn't lost his wife and her parents hadn't lost their lives. She was Leila who never woke to that is what I am. She was Leila who would cry when her pet failed for its trophy. She was Leila who would cry not for her own sake but for the cow's."

GRAPHIC: Photo Gary Sernovitz (Richard Greenberg/Henry Holt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); WOMEN (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); FAMILY FARMS (69%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (69%); ORPHANS (68%); RELIGION (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); POP & ROCK (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



705 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Themes of Gloom and Doom Fill Japanese Bookstores

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
There is noshortage of bad news in Japan these days yet another recession, continued political fumbling and even mad cow disease. But if books are a window into a society, you would think Japan was on the verge of collapse.
 "The Day the Yen Disappears," "2003: Japan's National Bankruptcy" and "The Depression of 2002" are just a few of the alarmist titles tantalizing readers at the corner bookstore. Their shrill tone and easy comparisons to the Weimar Republic and soup kitchens of the 1930's suggest that the end is near for the world's second-largest economy. Or does it? 
 For sure, writers have plenty of gloomy material to work with. The economy has slumped into its fourth recession in a decade, with almost every indicator pointing south except for debt levels, consumer anxiety and, sadly, suicide rates. Japan's leadership is in a tug of war about what to do, with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi urging reform and conservative backbenchers sticking to the status quo. While they grope for answers to Japan's mounting economic problems, the country has been stricken by a series of random calamities, including several grizzly murders and the sinking of a school ship near Hawaii.
Add it up, and you can see why authors like Takashi Asai are predicting the end of Japan as we know it. Mr. Asai, a 47-year-old photographer turned writer, has finished three volumes of a five-part series predicting the bankrupting of Japan in two years. His books liberally liken modern-day Japan to Germany after World War I, which was engulfed by hyperinflation and eventually succumbed to fascism. While not predicting a similar fate here, Mr. Asai says Japan is doomed because few people understand the scale of the catastrophe that awaits the country.
"Japanese society has a horrible cancer, but people think it is just a cold, so they continue taking small doses of medicine and wonder why it still hurts," Mr. Asai said.
Despite his audacious titles, Mr. Asai's three books, all released in the last year, have sold 190,000 copies so far, with one's being reprinted 38 times. Books on economics, alarmist or otherwise, consistently place among the 10 best sellers, according to the Research Institute for Publishers, even though industrywide sales have fallen for four consecutive years. Readers are hungry for information that explains all the dire newspaper headlines they read, said Fumiko Takahashi, a researcher at the institute.
In fact, Japan has a tradition of fatalism that started, at least in modern times, about three decades ago. Sakyo Komatsu ignited the trend in 1973 with his best-selling science fiction work, "Japan Sinks," the story of a huge earthquake that split the country in two and sank it.
The book, which was translated into English and reissued after the Kobe earthquake in 1995, inspired a mini-industry called nihon chinbotsu ron, or the study of Japan sinking.
The books and bad news make their way into the mainstream, including normally sober Sunday morning talk shows.
Politicians use the unending litany of bad news to push their agenda for change. "Japanese have a tradition of being motivated by disaster more than by optimism," said Gerald Curtis, visiting professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. 
Using impending doom to jump-start political debate, however, is backfiring, Mr. Curtis and others said. Having been told for years their country is doomed, the Japanese are becoming immune to these fears.
"Something has happened to the Japanese psyche; it's like everyone is sedated," said Tetsuya Kataoka, senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
The warnings in the latest round of ominous books are truer now than ever before. Most analysts in Japan acknowledge that the economy is having its most radical makeover since World War II, a process that is far from complete. "Japan today faces a 'decade of confusion' following its 'lost decade," in the 1990's, writes Atsushi Yamada, a journalist at Asahi Shimbun and a co-author of "Japan's Defeat Again." "The past decade was a period of sorting out the problems facing the nation. Perhaps we will need another decade to break down the old systems and build new ones."
With predictions like this, the steady drumbeat of bad news and the publishing industry that markets it are unlikely to fade soon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The growing list of downbeat books in Japan include "All Your Assets Will Turn to Trash" by Seiki Matsumoto. (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times) Chart: "Growing Despair"The suicide rate in Japan among males rose during the 1990's to a higher point than it was in the post-WWII era. Number of suicides committed in Japan per 100,000 people Graph showing the suicide rate of males and females in Japan. (Source: National Mental Health Research Center Japan ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); WRITERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TRENDS (87%); LITERATURE (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); CANCER (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (73%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (73%); SUICIDE (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); WORLD WAR I (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); EARTHQUAKES (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



706 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life in E-Commerce; 
Online Travel Is Active Despite Economy and Terror

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Internet companies that sell airplane tickets? In this economy? It might seem to be a business trapped in a vortex of negative trends.
 But here is a surprise: Despite the Internet malaise, economic slowdown and fears of terrorism and airline crashes, online travel companies are doing rather well. 
 The big public ones -- Travelocity, Expedia and Priceline -- had operating profits in the third quarter and expect the same this quarter, too. Sales are down, of course, from what had been expected before Sept. 11. But the online companies seem to have gained a bigger slice of the smaller travel pie. That is good news for those companies and their investors, as Thanksgiving opens what could be the most uncertain holiday travel season in memory. 
Online travel, in fact, has been bucking the trend all year, growing much faster than have other forms of electronic commerce as customers are lured by the convenience and, often, the lower prices offered by the travel Web sites. Airlines and other travel-oriented companies have encouraged this shift, because selling online is cheaper for them than is using traditional travel agents or telephone reservation centers. 
If anything, the travel turmoil since Sept. 11 has actually accelerated the transition. Airlines are no longer merely eager to cut costs -- they are desperate to do so. And consumers see the Web as the best way to find the deep discounts that tour and travel companies are offering to lure travelers back. 
"Travel was the bright spot on the Internet before," said Rick Braddock, chief executive of Priceline. "And guess what? It's still the bright spot on the Internet." 
Even the crash of American Airlines Flight 587 last Monday seemed to slow online bookings for only about a day. ComScore Networks, a company that monitors the Web activity of 1.5 million home and small-business Internet users worldwide, said that purchases at travel sites fell 29 percent last Tuesday, the day after the crash, compared with a week earlier. But by Thursday, bookings were actually 5 percent above the previous week's level. 
"As the evidence has mounted that Monday's crash was not a terrorist attack but rather a mechanical accident, travelers' confidence has returned and they have resumed booking air travel," said Gian Fulgoni, the ComScore chief executive. 
The travel impact of Sept. 11 does linger. ComScore's data showed a 48 percent decline in online airline bookings the week after the Sept. 11 attack. And volume has only slowly climbed back. In the week ended Nov. 11, online travel purchases reached $399 million -- still about 7 percent below their level in the week ended Sept. 9. Over all, the airline industry is operating at only about 70 percent of its normal volume, and hotel revenue is about 80 percent of pre-Sept. 11 levels. 
Travelocity says its revenue is 70 percent to 80 percent of what it had previously expected for October and November. But cruise and vacation package sales are doing even better than expected before the terrorist attacks because of the heavily reduced prices now being offered by travel companies. 
At Expedia, sales are 80 percent to 85 percent of pre-Sept. 11 levels. Expedia's revenue of $80 million in the third quarter was less than the $90 million it had been expecting, even though it was up 90 percent from a year earlier. This quarter, the company expects sales of $65 million, up 47 percent from last year's fourth quarter. 
Orbitz, a new online travel agent backed by a group of big airlines, is doing even better. While its sales fell 30 percent right after Sept. 11, its sales now are above the previous levels. 
Orbitz, even more than other sites, is focused on offering low prices -- in part because it has access to airline sales that other travel agents do not. That puts Orbitz in an especially opportune position for the current market. 
"After Sept. 11, people are hungry for a deal," said Jeffrey Katz, the Orbitz chief executive. "And they see the Internet as the way to get it." 
Priceline -- the name-your-own-price travel site aimed at people so hungry for bargains that they will let the site pick their travel times, airline and routes -- so far is doing better than it had expected for the fourth quarter. Normally, the holiday travel season is a slow one for Priceline because the airlines have fewer unsold seats to sell at discounts. This year, of course, there are more seats, but with airlines running their own big sales, there is less room for Priceline to offer deeper discounts. Priceline and other online travel companies are having particular success selling hotel rooms, for which travelers have a harder time finding discounts on their own.
"There is a fire-sale mentality that has permeated the industry," said Mr. Braddock of Priceline. 
To be sure, not every online travel company is prospering. 
Take BizTravel.com, a five-year-old site that closed its doors on Sept. 25. Hal Rosenbluth, chief executive of Rosenbluth International, the big travel company that owned the majority stake in BizTravel, said that though the site had been struggling, it might have managed to stay in business if not for the events of Sept. 11. 
"Our niche was to provide higher service for the business travel market," Mr. Rosenbluth said. "Unfortunately that was the wrong niche for the year 2001." Business travel has fallen off more sharply than has leisure travel. 
But Mr. Rosenbluth said that the Internet was helping Rosenbluth International lower costs in its traditional business of booking travel for big companies. Now 18 percent of its reservations are handled through online sites it runs for corporations, up three times from a year ago. 
Even the online travel companies that are doing relatively well have moved quickly to cut their costs since Sept. 11. 
Orbitz has laid off 17 people, about 10 percent of its staff. USA Networks, which is buying control of Expedia from Microsoft, has delayed its plan to start a travel channel on cable television by at least three months. 
Travelocity plans to close a call center with 300 employees by the end of the year. That is a risky move. While sales are lower, all the uncertainty over schedule changes and airport delays mean that the company lately has been taking far more customer calls than usual. Indeed, it had to contact 70,000 people, sending e-mail messages or placing phone calls to alert them of schedule changes the last two months. 
Most of the companies are curtailing their marketing spending as well. 
"I'm not sure, no matter how much we advertised, that we could motivate people who have decided not to travel," said Terry Jones, chief executive of Travelocity. 
Another issue for the online travel agents is that the airlines, which have been cutting commissions the last year, are cutting them more. Continental Airlines, for example, recently said it would eliminate commissions altogether for tickets sold online, matching an earlier move by Northwest Airlines. But both airlines have cut deals with several of the biggest online travel agents, in which they still pay some sort of commission and also receive marketing support, like the ability to send e-mail promotions to the sites' clients. 
"We want more bang for our buck," said Jim Young, vice president for distribution strategy at Continental. 
For the online travel companies, even the worst news can have a silver lining. In the days immediately after Sept. 11, and to a much lesser degree after the crash last week, traffic on their sites surged -- not necessarily with buyers, but with people looking for information on what had happened and how it would affect travel plans. 
Of course, the more comfortable people become with doing anything online, the more likely they are to try booking online when they choose to resume traveling.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the thriving online travel business misstated the title of Jim Young, an executive at Continental Airlines, who commented on his company's Internet strategy. He is managing director for distribution planning, not vice president for distribution strategy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Internet travel companies are thriving as more consumers book plane tickets online. Airlines are encouraging the trend, which cuts costs. Delta Air Lines customers at La Guardia Airport can use self-service kiosks to buy tickets or print out tickets ordered online. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Jeffrey Katz, the chief executive of Orbitz, an online travel agent that is backed by a group of large airlines, waits for a flight at La Guardia Airport. Orbitz focuses on offering low prices to consumers. (Angel Franco for The New York Times)(pg. C7) Chart: "Return Business"Online ticket sales plunged in the wake of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, but they have revived in recent weeks. Graph showing the online ticket sales.(Source: PhoCusWright)(pg. C7) Chart: "Low Fliers"The stock prices of companies that sell airline tickets online are down from their 12-month peaks. Graph showing the stock price of Expedia.Graph showing the stock price of Travelcity.Graph showing the stock price of Priceline. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); HIJACKING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); THANKSGIVING (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



707 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary 

BYLINE:  By Enid Nemy

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
At a recent performance of "The Full Monty," I was seated behind a tall man who kept shifting his head from left to right, which resulted in my shifting my head as well. I know this must have irritated the woman behind me. After intermission, my foot grazed something on the floor under the man's seat. It was his wallet.
 After checking his name on the driver's license, I tapped his shoulder. "Harry," I said, "I'll give you something you really want if you'll agree to stop shifting your head." Looking back, he exclaimed, "You have my wallet!" 
 I handed it over and told the woman in back of me she could watch the second act without shifting. He kept still for the rest of the performance. It was a good deal for all of us. Floyd Landis

Dear Diary:
A large woman boarded a bus in Brooklyn and approached where I was seated, the middle of a three-seater with empty seats on either side. She gestured grandly, looked at me and said, "Make yourself smaller!" Ruth Biller
Scene: Midtown Manhattan spa.
Time: The Monday after the New York City Marathon.
Players: Jane Sullivan Beiles and a marathoner limping out of the massage room.
Ms. Beiles: "Did you run the marathon yesterday?"
Runner: "Yes, my first time, and I've got black and blue toenails to prove it!"
Ms. Beiles, a former marathon runner and a fashion industry veteran: "Don't worry. New York schedules the race perfectly so that your nails will grow back just in time for open-toe shoe season next spring."

Dear Diary:
I was walking on Broadway in SoHo recently, trying to buy something, anything, to help New York City's economy. At Alice Underground, I noticed a Persian lamb jacket with a smooth fur collar. Suddenly I was transported to the 1950's, my mother wearing her Persian lamb coat, high heels clicking as she held my hand and we breezed into the Bird Cage restaurant at Lord & Taylor. I had found my purchase -- until I reminded myself that I do not wear fur. I looked at the label, Faux Fur -- a good sign.
Just to make sure, I said to the oh-so-cool cashier, "It's not real fur, is it?" She put down her magazine, stared at me and said: "Listen, honey, the lamb is fake but the collar is bunny. So get over it." I did. Stephanie Brody-Lederman

Dear Diary:
On a clear, sunny day last fall, my wife, Susan, took our stepgranddaughter, Samantha, then 6, on a short hike near our home in Portland, Me. At the end, on the highest point of land in Casco Bay, Susan turned Sam around to face the view of Portland (population 65,000). "Wow!" Sam said, impressed. "Is that New York City?" Bob Nielsen
While visiting relatives in a suburb near Los Angeles, Phyllis Myslik wore a shawl to a neighbor's party. One woman to whom she had been introduced mentioned that she selected the wardrobes for a popular sitcom. As Ms. Myslik chatted with a young man -- who, incidentally, told her that he could neither read music nor play an instrument but that he chose the background music for major motion pictures someone brushed by her and her shawl slipped off one shoulder. The wardrobe woman rushed up. "I just love the way you're wearing your shawl -- it's so New York!" she exclaimed.
MY SPELLING WEAK (An ode to my sun)
Monday's homework makes no cents to me.
I don't knead to practice -- it's plane to see!
Why right words for times when I'm sew smart?
Hay I already no those words by hart!
On Tuesday knights, it's even worse,
I hate writing sentences -- I yell and curse.
And just when I think I'm finally done,
My mother tells me I left out won!
On Wednesdays, I'm knot quite so mad
Dictated sentences aren't that bad
But why dew eye have to copy them at home?
I'd really rather billed a geodesic dome.
On Thursday knights I study a bit,
Then stomp my feat and throw a fit,
Brush my hare and climb the stares,
Get into bed and say my prayers.
Now I lay me down to sleep.
I prey the Lord my sole two keep
If I should dye before I wake
I pray the Lord my test to take! Leslie E. Packer
Driving in New York, Stella Filippelli has noticed that bumper messages on vehicles usually say "Yes" on the left and "No" on the right to remind drivers to pass on the left. But over the years she has jotted down a few other bumper messages, among them:
Go/No
El paso/El crasho
Grateful/Dead
Good move/Bad Move 
Hot/Cold
Try/Bye 

Dear Diary
My wife, Leah, and I boarded the downtown No. 5 express subway train at Grand Central, as did a group of men wearing navy blue uniforms that bore the insignia of the Chicago Fire Department. Their destination was all too apparent and so was their unfamiliarity with the New York transit system. They asked repeatedly if it was the correct train, and everyone reassured them that it was. One firefighter apologized to my wife for the inquiries, explaining that the group was concerned about getting lost. "With that uniform, you'll never be lost in New York," my wife said. He beamed. Noel M. Edelson

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); RUNNING (70%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (68%); ATHLETES (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



708 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Laid Low by Last Recession, California Is Ready for Next 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Nov. 18 

 BODY:
When she was called in one day last month and laid off from her $10-an-hour job as a housekeeper at the Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Otilia Toledo said she was hurt and anxious. But she was not desperate.
 She is struggling to find work at a time when the tourism-dependent economy here has taken a body blow, but she still has her second job, cleaning houses, which is tiding her over. 
 Jay Cahan's situation is not as critical. He is a commercial real estate broker in the dot-com-driven economy of San Francisco, which means that his business has been battered as badly as the overall Internet economy. His income this year will be roughly half what it was in 2000 -- but the drop is from a spectacular level, he said from Arizona, where he was taking a long-planned vacation. 
What these experiences illustrate is the unaccustomed position California finds itself in. The state has grown used to alarming economic news, having been in a recession a decade ago that was deeper, longer and more vicious than that of the rest of the country, in large part because of the many military base closings and the loss of a quarter-million aerospace jobs.
What is unfamiliar today -- as grim as some of the economic news has been lately -- is the guarded optimism of many experts, who say that this time the state may come through the tough times in much better shape than other regions.
The difference now, say these experts, boils down to this: Californians knew a decade ago that the loss of all the aerospace jobs and cuts in other industries would be permanent. The state government responded with long-term reductions in services and fundamental changes in the way it paid for certain programs.
Now, most economists agree that the worst problems are generally contained in the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas, and even those are regarded as temporary. The underlying economy is described as a healthy, job-creating machine, and the economists say it will kick back into gear sometime next year.
As a result, California's condition these days can be summed up as a set of bad-news-good-news equations. The state government, for instance, is expected to suffer a $12.4 billion loss in tax revenues over the next two fiscal years, the legislative analysts' office says. Much of that will be a product of plummeting capital gains tax revenues from dot-com stock options. 
Gov. Gray Davis has already ordered an immediate $2.2 billion cut in spending, which his Republican opponents in next year's governor's race have criticized as late and inadequate.
Even so, Kathleen Connell, the state controller, who has spent months brooding publicly over the state's fiscal problems, said in an interview that she believed the state would get by with some quick reductions in anticipation of a rebound soon.
"There's no one who disagrees with what we're saying, that it's going to be a brief, V-shaped recession that is now at its worst," Ms. Connell said. "We will lead the rest of the nation out of the recession, I believe, and that's the first time we will be able to do that."
Tony Cardenas, chairman of the budget committee in the State Assembly, said that finding the needed budget cuts would be a bitter and potentially divisive exercise, particularly because education and many social programs were likely to be cut deeply. 
But the problems will probably be short-term, Mr. Cardenas said, which means they will not require the kind of cuts that wrenched the state government in the last recession.
"The saving grace now, the reason we should not be alarmed, is that we should rebound by midyear next year," Mr. Cardenas said. "This is tough, but it's not like the 90's."
Still, in a recent survey by the Public Policy Institute of California, concerns over the economy had replaced the energy crisis as the most important issue facing the state.
Silicon Valley has been in a tailspin since early this year, when the bottom dropped out of the dot-com economy. Job losses and steep decreases in incomes have hit local governments hard.
Mary Bradley, the finance director of Sunnyvale, in the heart of the valley, said the city's sales tax revenues plunged by 25 percent in the second quarter of this year, and she is expecting a slightly larger decline for the third quarter. But she said she believed the economic decline had leveled off.
"The good news is, while there is a recession, we're not in a free fall," Ms. Bradley said. "It's clear where the problems are, and we don't expect any layoffs or service reductions."
At the state level the problems could be more severe. The governor has ordered 15 percent cuts by nearly every state agency next year to get the $80 billion budget under control. Most forecasters are expecting that overall economic growth next year will be lethargic, but most of the solutions being discussed are short-term.
"It's funny now," said Ted Gibson, the chief economist for the state's Department of Finance. "I don't want to sound flippant, but we're not New York. Despite the situation in the high-tech industries, which is pretty serious, we're doing reasonably well, and should do better next year."
Stephen Levy, the director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy, also said he would not understate the job losses, but that overall the outlook was moderately positive because of the expectation of a quick upswing.
"It's important to keep in mind that we don't think this is permanent, the way it was in the early 90's," Mr. Levy said. "We will come back sooner than the other states, and stronger."
For instance, while 415,000 people lost their jobs nationwide in October, just 4,300 of those were in California, Mr. Gibson said.
In Los Angeles, more than 2,000 members of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees union have lost their jobs, and another 2,000 or so have had their hours reduced. Many of them work at the airport kitchens where in-flight meals are prepared. 
Hotel occupancy rates decreased sharply in Los Angeles in October, to 58.3 percent from 78.1 percent a year earlier.
When the union set up a resource center last month where laid-off workers could get information and free food, it was overwhelmed. But Steve Trossman, a spokesman for the state's largest union, the Service Employees International, which represents custodial workers and the like, said the overall problems were modest.
"We're not seeing heavy problems," Mr. Trossman said. "The big job cuts have been focused in those smaller areas, like hotels and tourism."
One factor making the problems more complex for local governments is the squeeze they are experiencing from both the cost and revenue sides. They are being forced to spend more on security because of the terrorism crisis, and energy costs have shot up this year, but they are also seeing reductions in sales tax revenues.
That has made the cities particularly anxious about the Christmas season, which is the pivot on which economic forecasts will turn.
"Every city is on pins and needles for what is really the Super Bowl of the sales tax season," said David A. Jones, a legislative coordinator for the California League of Cities. 
"So far," Mr. Jones added, "the economists say it won't be too bad. We're hoping so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mar Preston distributing food to laid-off workers in Santa Monica, Calif. Only 4,300 of the 415,000 layoffs nationwide in October were in California. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); MILITARY BASES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TRENDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); CLOSINGS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



709 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: A Workhorse of the Skies, Perhaps With a Deadly Defect 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD and AL BAKER 

 BODY:
One of an unglamorous fleet, the plane that crashed last Monday morning in Queens was an efficient, anonymous workhorse whose marketers nicknamed the model "The Regional Profit Machine." The ill-fated Airbus A300 was wider than many planes, carried lots of people on the short, packed flights from New York to Miami and the Caribbean, and cost less than other planes to operate.
 Over its 13 years, it logged 37,550 flight hours, making it a middle-aged plane, and accumulated a seemingly unremarkable assortment of entries in computer databases detailing its various aches and ills. 
 But now, the plane, known only by its registration number, N14053, will have its biography recorded for all time. The lasting effects of every mile it flew will be assessed, and every routine maintenance job performed on it will be analyzed. But perhaps most significantly, intense scrutiny will be given to one of the very features that was a part of its economic appeal: its use of carbon fiber-reinforced plastics. 
The reason for the scrutiny is painfully straightforward. The plane's tail, made almost entirely of the high-grade material, known in the industry as composite, came off during the doomed flight that left all 260 on board and 5 others on the ground dead. Whether the loss of the tail caused the crash of American Airlines Flight 587 or was an intermediate factor is at the moment unclear, but that it could tear off the way it did is disturbing enough.
As in most accidents, the implications of finding a flaw in the carbon fiber would hardly be limited to explaining one crash. There are hundreds of planes of this model flying around the world, and thousands of its vintage and later that make use of composites, which have greater strength and durability than the metals that have been traditionally used.
N14053, then, is opening up a new world to investigators.
For example, Thomas Haeuter, a National Transportation Safety Board investigator who has "kicked the tin" on a score of plane crashes, is now looking at the possibility that the composite used in the tail had a hidden flaw or was somehow repeatedly flexed in a way that damaged it, a phenomenon known as fatigue. But this time, it is not tin he is kicking. "I'm not sure exactly what fatigue looks like in a composite structure," he said Thursday.
The tail fin tore in places that investigators said were about two and a half inches thick, and consisted of layers a few thousandths of an inch thick. If a problem in this material is found to be the probable cause of the crash -- a determination is months away -- it would be the first crash of a commercial airliner attributed to the failure of a piece of composite, crash investigators say.
In that case, N14053 would raise important consequences for its sibling A300's and little-brother A310's, as well as for many Boeing models, especially the 777. It could be, for composites, a seminal event, similar to the 1988 failure of the metal rivets on a Boeing 737 flown by Aloha Air, which spawned a whole new form of inspections for airlines because of the threat of metal fatigue. Now, all planes must be routinely examined in depth for metal fatigue, a procedure that adds significant costs and limits the economic lifetime of airliners.
In May 2000 Airbus advised the airlines that fly its A319, A320 and A321 models to perform a onetime inspection of their vertical tails to look for signs of the skin coming apart from the skeleton, but the recommendation did not extend to the A300.
There are a number of explanations that might account for the tail's coming off the airliner. One is a condition called flutter, in which the passing air whipsaws a part back and forth and weakens it. This can happen over months or mere minutes.
Another may be pilot reaction to the mild turbulence that the plane encountered. For instance, if the pilots, in trying to keep control of the plane, instead subjected it to severe jerks, the tail might have been put under considerable stress.
But the Airbus, like all big jets, is designed to handle what the Federal Aviation Administration calls "loads likely to be encountered in service." There is not supposed to be any rudder movement a pilot can command that will rip off the tail. And more so than Boeing planes, the Airbus is supposed to protect pilots from their own mistakes, with automatic systems that limit how the plane can be maneuvered.
In the hunt for answers, N14053 will have a post-mortem like few others, its destruction giving it more attention than it ever had in its workaday life as an industry beast. The results will shed light on one disaster and be used to prevent future ones.
The Airbus 300 base model was the first airplane that Airbus, a French conglomerate, built in the early 1970's. The company became very successful in challenging Boeing, having come out with something to get the European manufacturers into the commercial jet business.
"Their story is similar to the Japanese automakers in competing with the U.S. auto industry," said Thomas E. Burke, director at Avmark, an aviation consulting agency in Arlington, Va. "They came in late and said, 'Ooh, we're not stuck with all the garbage.' They could do it with new equipment."
N14053, in fact, was the exemplar of a series that in the 1980's had three things that Airbus hoped airlines would find irresistible: more comfort because it was wider, lower cost, and compatibility, meaning pilots trained to fly one could fly other models in the manufacturer's line with minimal extra training.
And as Airbus began to challenge Boeing more aggressively with its second generation of the A300 series, like the one that crashed Monday, they began to make extensive use of new composites. The lightweight material, which made for lighter planes and lower fuel costs, attracted American Airlines executives because it allowed jets to carry passengers and cargo less expensively.
Airbus first used composites on nonstructural plane parts, such as doors or panels, and then later in the plane's skeleton, where it would carry significant loads. Airbus made its first A300 tail fins of composites in 1985.
The carbon-and-plastic composites used by aircraft manufacturers tend to be extremely strong and resistant to cracking, and were strenuously tested, said Dr. Robert T. Bocchieri, a senior engineer at Applied Research Associates, an engineering firm in Sunnyvale, Calif., and an expert in assessing failures of composite materials.
Cracks that develop in metals or plastics as they age tend to be stopped in these materials by the embedded fibers, he said. Also, "aircraft makers have tended to be extremely conservative in their use of composites," he said.
And the materials, when proposed for airliners, were "put through massive numbers of cycles of full-scale testing," he said. "They had to simulate the entire life history of the aircraft."
Boeing also now makes extensive use of composites, and its proposed Sonic Cruiser would carry the trend even further. Some aviation experts say that Airbus has been more aggressive than Boeing in employing composite materials, but Boeing officials deny that.
Back in 1987, when Airbus was leading the way with composites, American ordered 35 A300's, and sent them out on popular routes between New York and Miami to the Caribbean, Boston and New York to London, and Miami to Central and South America -- the short, fat runs, as they are known among industry insiders.
American Airlines purchased N14053 because it was determined to be a good fit for its trips to the Caribbean. Passengers on those flights often check in with lots of luggage, and the A300 has large bays and cargo holds for their belongings.
"I can tell you that one of the reasons we bought it was because it was a very good candidate for flying from J.F.K. into the Caribbean," said John L. Hotard, an American Airlines spokesman.
It turns out, though, that N14053 needed a repair to its composite tail fin even before it was delivered by the factory in Toulouse, France, on July 12, 1988. The layers of the tail fin had begun to come apart from within one spot, where the tail connects to the plane's fuselage. It was repaired by adding extra layers of composite and binding the area with rivets.
When the manufacturer delivered the plane, it said no further inspections of the part were required. The good news was that the defect, called delaminating, was discovered. But the problem showed that composite can suffer from flaws in its fabrication. That part of the tail that was fixed appeared to be intact when the tail was examined after the crash.
Now, investigators are looking at the other points where the tail connected to the fuselage to determine if flaws similar to the first one had developed. The question is whether the composite fin was designed or built with a flaw that developed into a weakness, was damaged over time, or somehow encountered forces greater than it was designed to handle and ripped away from the plane's spine on a routine climb.
For much of its flying life, American reported various problems with N14053 to the F.A.A., but these were typically minor things -- like broken aisle floor lights, and a warning of low fluid levels in the hydraulic systems that was apparently the result of a problem with a sensor.
There were also incidents of smoke and odors in the plane, which forced the plane to land, that were traced to problems with the equipment that provided air to the cabin. The problems were repaired, records indicate.
But perhaps its most interesting in-flight experience happened in 1994, when it had a jarring encounter with turbulence. In the air near Puerto Rico, the plane shook so violently that 47 passengers were injured.
Planes are built to handle extraordinary encounters with turbulence; even turbulence strong enough to kill people on board is often not enough to approach damaging the airframe. But it is also possible for turbulence to do damage to a plane, and some safety experts wonder if damage went undetected.
American conducted a visual inspection of the plane immediately after the 1994 incident and found no structural damage. But another question for experts is whether the inspection could have missed any damage that might have showed up under more intense inspection.
When Flight 587 rolled down runway 31L at Kennedy International Airport last Monday shortly after 9 a.m., it weighed 350,000 pounds, including 63,000 pounds of fuel, passengers and cargo. Inside it was roomy enough, with its decks removed, to drive an 18-wheel truck into it.
On the ground, Abraham Farber, 40, a finance manager, was driving west to work along Beach Channel Drive in the Rockaways. Suddenly, in the open sky over the tops of houses, he saw what looked like "a jet engine plop out of the sky."
"I looked up and I saw the first engine come down, followed by another within two seconds after that," said Mr. Farber, who told his story to the police and the F.A.A. "Moments later I saw a fireball erupt from the area of impact several blocks in. It was so surreal."
He and another man got out of their cars. Shards of aluminum and other debris started raining down. N14053 had come apart in midair.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Investigators have been looking at whether a composite material used in the tail fin of American Airlines Flight 587 played a role in its crash. (National Transportation Safety Board)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRBUS A300 AIRPLANE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DOMINICAN-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (84%) AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; BAKER, AL; HEUTER, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



710 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
For the Jobless, The Waiting Stretches On

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
THOUSANDS are out of work in and around New York City. About 79,000 jobs disappeared from the city in October alone in the aftermath of Sept. 11, and the economy was weakening long before then. Matters talked to scores of people at the city's first Twin Towers Job Expo on Oct. 17 and reached some of them again over the weekend to see how they were doing. Most are still unemployed. They don't like to complain. As one said, "I am alive and healthy."
 But they worry, and their worries are New York's: 
 Sabina Rendall of East Flatbush, Brooklyn. A single mother, 44, laid off in March from the accounting department of Radisson Hotels.
"I went to two job fairs; no one ever called me back. I go looking for a job every day. I make it like a 9-to-5 schedule.
"My unemployment ran out in September. I've never been without a job this long. My parents live downstairs; they can help awhile, but how much can they help? I have a daughter; she just turned 12. When school started, I bought her two pants and two shirts because I couldn't afford more.
"Pretty soon they are going to cut out everything -- the phone, Con Ed, gas. I don't know. I'm just waiting for a miracle."
Louise Marino, 55, of Rego Park, Queens. Laid off in June from the accounting department of Edison Schools.
"In the last 10 days I've been getting a lot of calls. Maybe I have something pending now, I hope. 
"It's the economy. Michael, my son, is also unemployed. He worked in a clerical capacity for Reuters. He will be graduated from college in June. He's been trying to look for a job, and there's nothing out there.
"I have only eight weeks of unemployment left -- $405 a week. I buy things in bulk. We used to have more steak, chicken, fish. Now it's kind of like macaroni and lots of hamburger. My friend takes me to Costco. I get three dozen eggs for $2.29. I don't buy name-brand items. I cut coupons. 
"I'll tell you, when you can save $6 cutting coupons, that's a lot of money. And we put all our loose change in a bottle. It adds up. We saved $500 last year. People say $500 is not a lot of money, but oh yes it is."
James Sestito, 31, a marketing director from Neptune City, N.J., laid off on Sept. 26 by a company that organizes business conferences. 
"I've handed or sent out 170 resumes altogether, but I've gotten only three serious calls. A lot are looking to fill sales positions. That's not what I do.
"I met with a couple of headhunters, I answer ads in the papers, but so far, no luck. My wife's a receptionist in a law office. We met in high school. She's taken a second job at night at a local supermarket. I'm doing odd jobs; I have some savings and family. Hopefully it won't be much longer."
Sari Gadlin of the Upper West Side, a meeting planner laid off in April from a nonprofit association.
"People are not wanting to get on planes and travel; companies are not wanting to pay for their people go to meetings and schmooze at lunches.
"My roommate is a facialist. No business. Do you need to get a facial? She came back from a visit to Charlotte, said, 'I'm going back.' She said they are not hit. I think a lot of it is New York. It's obviously nationwide, but especially in New York.
"If you would have told me at 37 I would be unemployed -- with 12 years' experience, and I'm good at what I do, I have good references -- if I got myself stuck in that mode, I'd be in trouble. But I get up early, I go to the gym, my apartment has never been cleaner. I have no husband, no children; it was always my career. I was where I wanted to be. This is devastating."
Steven Steinhart, 33, a lawyer from Highland Park, N.J., whose firm on Church Street downtown was displaced by the Sept. 11 attack. He begins a new job today.
"I am very fortunate. I saw a job listing in The Law Journal, I thought it was a good fit and was fortunate enough to be hired.
"I am grateful, to my wife and to God, that the whole situation is over."
Cristina Giovine, 26, of Toms River, N.J., a marketing specialist unemployed since March, when YOUpowered.com, an Internet startup, folded. She gave up her Manhattan sublet to move back home. 
"I am looking continuously. The world seems to have gone crazy. A friend works for a pharmaceutical company. My resume was submitted a couple of weeks ago. I might substitute teach, something to get out of bed for in the morning, which, at this stage of the game, is a good thing to do, to feel like you're part of society.
"I think New York will be up after the new year. New York has no use for me now, but I'm coming back." 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Metro Matters column on Monday, about unemployed New Yorkers who discussed their job searches, misstated the month that one of them, Sari Gadlin, was laid off from a nonprofit association. It was September, not April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); TERRORISM (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); AIRLINES (68%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



711 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Top Democrats Politick Through Rural Mexico 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: PUEBLA, Mexico, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Thousands of miles away from their own constituents, the two top Democrats from the United States took a morning ride today through a rural stretch of central Mexico that had all the trappings of a campaign.
 Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader from South Dakota, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the minority leader from Missouri, visited villages in Puebla State that are connected to the United States by the blood and money of immigrants. They stopped at an elementary school where teachers complained about soaring dropout rates as children move with their families to the United States. They toured a women's cooperative that produces canned kumquats and peach wine, led mostly by wives left behind by their husbands. They gushed over the work of local artisans and tasted homemade candies. 
 Although they never asked for votes here, Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt made a series of stunning promises.
"We want to ensure that that those people who have come from Puebla to the Northeast and want to stay in the United States as citizens can do so," Mr. Daschle said, to loud applause from the crowd. 
Mr. Gephardt offered economic assistance to help develop more jobs for Mexicans who resist the lure of the United States and stay in their homeland.
"The United States and Mexico are best friends," he said, "and we always will be."
The visit to Puebla by Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt came at the end of an official visit, which the legislators said was intended to re-energize talks between the United States and Mexico on immigration reform. Talks between high-level members of the Mexican government and the Bush administration are scheduled to begin again on Tuesday for the first time since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
President Vicente Fox of Mexico, advocating the freer flow of goods and people across the 2,000-mile border, had pushed the United States to adopt a series of immigration changes by the end of this year, including the legalization of about three million undocumented Mexicans working in the United States and the expansion of guest-worker programs. President Bush had promised to work toward that goal. But then the terrorist assaults on New York and Washington threw the talks into uncertainty.
Mr. Bush has said that he remains committed to negotiations with Mexico and Congress on changing immigration rules. However, Republicans are divided over the principal initiatives, especially programs that would legalize undocumented immigrants. 
Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt's appearance in Mexico over the weekend seemed intended to demonstrate the Democrats' support for Mexico's proposals. Some political analysts pointed out that the visit was part of an effort by the Democrats to build support among the growing population of Latino voters in the United States.
"We wanted to make as strong a statement as we could that our mutual agenda has not been lost in the aftermath of the disaster of Sept. 11," Mr. Daschle said. "Our agenda regarding our mutual relationship is every bit as important, and our commitment every bit as strong."
Mr. Gephardt and Mr. Daschle said they came to Puebla, which has a population of about six million, to get a first-hand lesson on immigration. Even though it is a state with a large number of foreign-owned assembly plants, close to one million people from Puebla, called Poblanos, have abandoned Mexico since the 1970's and settled in a stretch from New York to Virginia. About 300,000 Poblanos live in the New York metropolitan area. The immigrants, who typically earn more in an hour than workers in Mexico earn in a day, send an estimated $800 million a year back to the state.
"We are not trying to inadvertently encourage more people to migrate by talking about a regularization," Mr. Daschle said. "That is why we are also talking about ways to create jobs here. People want to stay home. They want to stay united with their families."
Although they were touring farming villages in Puebla, there were moments when the legislators could not have felt closer to home among families whose struggles after the terrorist assaults echo the turmoil and defiance felt north of the border.
The politicians were followed by crowds waving star-spangled banners. Men wearing Yankees caps and jerseys played baseball in dirt lots under brilliant skies. Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt fielded questions about unemployment in the United States.
At the end of their visit, they met with four families whose relatives were killed in the attacks on the World Trade Center. Mr. Daschle said he was unable to answer one mother who asked him whether "any piece of her son would ever be recovered."
Listening in, Mr. Gephardt said, "I was moved to tears."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Richard A. Gephardt, left, Linda Daschle and Senator Tom Daschle, with schoolchildren in Puebla State yesterday. (Henry Romero/Reuters) Map of Mexico highlighting Puebla: Puebla State has a population of about six million people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); REFUGEES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); TRENDS (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%) THOMPSON, GINGER; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) MEXICO; PUEBLA (MEX)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



712 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Envoys Discuss Peace For Russia and Chechnya
Top envoys from the Kremlin and the Chechen rebel government met publicly in Moscow to discuss peace for the first time since war erupted 27 months ago between Russia and Chechnya, a separatist province. Both officials, Akhmed Zakayev, the deputy prime minister of Chechnya, and Viktor G. Kazantsev, above, a representative of President Vladimir V. Putin, were reported to have said that the talks were productive and that they would continue. A10

Sharon Won't Budge on Talks
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, concerned about possible new pressure by the Bush administration to accelerate steps toward peace negotiations, rejected the idea of easing a requirement that seven days of quiet must precede other formal steps endorsed by both sides. News media have reported that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will request that Mr. Sharon drop the condition in a speech scheduled for today. A10

Priorities in Kosovo
Ibrahim Rugova, whose party easily won elections in Kosovo and is expected to become its president, announced that his first priority would be to seek the independence of the province, which is still technically part of Serbia. A3

Eighty Serbs, under heavy NATO protection, have returned to their village in Kosovo, which they fled in the summer of 1999. But the homecoming has not been an easy one. A3

Colombian Criticized on Rights
Supporters of a specialized human rights unit within the national attorney general's office have begun to criticize the new attorney general, Luis Camilo Osorio, an ally of President Andres Pastrana, who they fear may stall investigations against right-wing paramilitary groups. A9

Top Democrats Visit Mexico
Senator Tom Daschle and Representative Richard A. Gephardt took a tour of central Mexico at the end of an official visit that the two legislators said was intended to re-energize talks between the United States and Mexico on sweeping immigration reform. High level talks are scheduled to begin again on Tuesday for the first time since Sept. 11. A12

NATIONAL A14-16

In California, Optimism Is the New State of Mind
Talk of an economic rebound is growing in California. The state, well accustomed to alarming economic events, finds itself experiencing something unfamiliar: guarded optimism. As grim as some of the economic news has been lately, many experts say that this time the state may come through the tough times in much better shape than other regions. A14

Oil Companies to Merge
The Phillips Petroleum Company and Conoco Inc. agreed to merge, creating a company with a market value of $35 billion. It would be the nation's largest gasoline retailer and would combine brands like Conoco, Phillips 66, Union 76 and Circle K. A1

ARTS E1-8

Sizing Up Harry Potter
The critics may view "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" as a mediocre movie, but the children see it differently. The film, released on Friday, enjoyed the biggest three-day opening weekend in film history, taking in $93.5 million. E1

EDUCATION

Challenge Enlivens SAT Debate
The effort by the president of the University of California to sideline the main SAT exam has given an extraordinary lift to critics who have long considered the test an inappropriate and unfair measure of high school students. The president, Dr. Richard C. Atkinson, has said his system and others should replace the main SAT exam, which was designed to measure reasoning ability, with other exams intended to gauge whether students have mastered the primary subjects that they are supposed to be learning in school. A14

NEW YORK/REGION F1-8

Students Across America Seek Pen Pals in New York
Schools throughout the city have been deluged with requests for pen pals since the World Trade Center attacks, including many from children whose backgrounds and routines could not be more different than those of their addressees. Many reached out to random city schools that they found on the Internet. Others put no specific address on their letters and let the postal service determine their destination. Some schools quietly put the letters aside, fearing they would be reminders of Sept. 11. But many schools have responded, and pen pal letters, which had become something of a lost art, are experiencing a renaissance. F1

Neediest Cases F2

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Dazzling Meteor Shower
Meteors lit up the night sky in what many astronomers are already calling the most impressive Leonid shower in more than three decades. The meteors, which are pieces of the comet Tempel-Tuttle, are drawn into the Earth's atmosphere every year in mid-November and burn up as streaks of light. Bob Berman, an astronomer in Woodstock, N.Y., said it was "like someone drilled a hole in the heavens and sparks leaked from that spot in all directions." F3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Jets Shut Out Dolphins
New York beat Miami, 24-0, to vault into first place of the American Football Conference East. D1

OBITUARIES F7

Tommy Flanagan
The pianist who, with a classic trio, set a high standard for elegance in mainstream postwar jazz was a distinguished accompanist before coming into his own as a leader late in his career. He was 71. F7

Satguru Subramuniyaswami
A native Californian who sought spiritual meaning in India as a young man and became the leader of Sri Lankan Hindus, he was 74. F7

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Book Sales Tumble
Major publishers say sales are down by as much as 15 percent from last year's lackluster levels. Most remarkably, publishers say that sales of the best-selling novels, even by blockbuster authors, are off by 25 percent to 40 percent from the level of last year's best sellers. "I have never seen anything like it, truly," said Carolyn Reidy of Simon & Schuster. C1

Travel Web Sites Buck Trend
Online travel companies are doing rather well despite the Internet malaise, economic slowdown and fears of terrorism and airline crashes. C1

Gore Strategist to Join SBC
William M. Daley, the campaign manager for Al Gore's presidential bid, has decided to move from a New York investment firm to what was once the enemy's territory, Texas, to become president of SBC Communications, the giant regional Bell company based in San Antonio. The move is set to be announced today. C2

Bank in Talks for Enron Unit
A large German bank, Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale of Dusseldorf, is in talks to buy Wessex Water from the Enron Corporation, people close to the discussions said. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The specter of nuclear terror; about time for campaign reform; Steven R. Weisman on ideologies in modern Afghanistan.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E4
Weather F8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); LAWYERS (63%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (73%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); TOM DASCHLE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOSOVO (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



713 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
The Vanishing Act

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
The U.S. unemployment rate rose sharply in October, to 5.4 percent, the biggest jump in five years.
 In New York, which is suffering the effects of a terrorist attack in the midst of an economic downturn, some 80,000 jobs were lost in October, a stunning decline in a month that can usually be counted upon for job growth. 
 Worse is to come. We will soon be hearing about the terrible difficulties jobless men and women will encounter when, after tumbling out of the labor market, they look around for a helping hand that is not there. 
Seldom in the last half-century has the U.S. been so poorly prepared to assist individuals and families struggling with the effects of a recession. Example: the unemployment insurance system, which was established to ease the pain of temporary joblessness, covers less than 40 percent of the people who are out of work. Example: the food stamp program, which was supposed to slam the door on hunger in the world's greatest nation (and which once served 90 percent of eligible families), now serves just 60 percent of the poverty-stricken folks who qualify for help.
And then there's welfare. In the summer of 1996 Bill Clinton signed the so-called reform bill ending "welfare as we know it." Among other things, it imposed a five-year lifetime limit on welfare assistance to needy families.
The potentially tragic consequences of that legislation were concealed for a while by the extraordinary economic boom in the last half of the decade. But Daniel Patrick Moynihan and others had warned all along of the dire implications of ending the guarantee of federal help to the nation's poorest families. Marian Wright Edelman of the Children's Defense Fund noted that supporters of the welfare bill assumed there would be "no recession in the next decade, which is unprecedented."
Now, with the good times behind us, we are about to see what happens when you remove the safety net that was designed to protect families doing an economic high-wire act. For an awful lot of distressed families, the end of welfare is coinciding with an economic recession exacerbated by acts of terror. 
In an appearance at the National Press Club in Washington last week, Deepak Bhargava, director of a coalition of groups known as the National Campaign for Jobs and Income Support, said, "We now have a welfare system in which time limits will be hitting in a majority of states at precisely the time when the labor markets are the weakest and when families are in the most trouble."
More than 120,000 families have already lost their benefits or had them reduced because of time limits on welfare. The lifetime limits kick in at different times in different states. Between now and next July we'll see welfare benefits exhausted for large numbers of families in at least 26 states.
Mr. Bhargava, whose coalition was formed by more than 1,000 organizations fighting on behalf of poor and working families in 40 states, said that by early next year the U.S. will be faced with huge numbers of families in desperate trouble because their welfare benefits have been cut off and there is no work for them.
Government officials who expect poor and working families to sort of roll over and quietly accept their dismal economic fate may get surprised this time around. There is a growing sense of militancy among struggling families in the United States. Pushing people to their limits will produce that.
Groups representing poor and working families are better organized and can be expected to make a lot more noise than they made in the mid-90's when welfare reform became a mantra. The federal welfare law has to be re-authorized next year and a big fight over its most onerous elements is all but guaranteed. Policy makers can also expect long and sometimes bitter fights at both the federal and state level over proposals to increase the minimum wage, to establish "living wages," to expand health insurance coverage, and to extend unemployment benefits to low-wage, part-time, temporary and other workers who don't presently qualify for them.
The cynicism that resulted in millionaire senators cheering the passage of welfare reform is now being confronted by the cold reality of a take-no-prisoners recession that threatens to leave millions of American families jobless, and all but helpless as well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (75%); CHILDREN (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); FOOD STAMPS (68%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (56%)

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



714 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: The I.M.F. Cites Terrorism And Issues Bleak Forecasts 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Finance ministers and central bankers from around the world ended three days of meetings today with their plans to improve world output battered by the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States.
 The meetings yielded some solid results, with the world's top economies promising to cut interest rates further if they had to in order to revive flagging growth. 
 "It's a different world after Sept. 11," India's finance minister, Yashwant Sinha, the departing chairman of the World Bank's policy-setting development committee, said at the closing news briefing. 
"It's a more integrated world with a greater awareness that we must be able to stand together, developed as well as developing countries, because alienation, poverty, degradation, violence, anger, impatience anywhere is a threat to peace and prosperity."
The International Monetary Fund issued bleak forecasts, painting a grim picture with growth slowing in almost every part of the globe. But the fund insisted that the picture would improve by next year.
Despite the show of unity by the wealthier countries promising to keep the world economy afloat and not be beaten by terrorism, disputes were evident in many items on the weekend's agenda.
The fund declared the United States economy to be in a "mild recession," but the United States said the forecast was too pessimistic. Europe's two largest economies, Germany and France, also insisted they would outperform the fund's guess. One Canadian official said the fund's forecasts should be "taken with a grain of salt." 
The fund now expects economic growth of just 2.4 percent this year and next, a level most private economists view as indicative of a global recession.
The Group of 20, the world's richest countries and leading emerging economies, and the fund promised to make every effort to squelch terrorist financing. But the weekend failed to produce what many had hoped for on that score -- that the fund would take a leading role in that effort.
Argentina, the country in most dire need in the wake of Sept. 11, left without the international endorsements it sought before starting a program on Monday to handle its debt.
Much time was spent over the weekend talking about the plight of the world's poorest people, and all agreed that something should be done to reduce poverty. But the rich nations bickered over exactly how to help. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill pressed his idea that rich countries should give poor countries grants rather than loans. Calling his idea "honest," he reiterated the view that loading already heavily indebted countries with more debt was counterproductive.
But Clare Short, Britain's development minister, dismissed the proposal as "a crazy idea." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TERRORISM (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%) OTTAWA (ONTARIO)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



715 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: LOWER MANHATTAN; 
For Downtown, Vacant Offices And Lost Vigor

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The renaissance that began in Lower Manhattan in the late 1990's is now in reverse. Six office towers totaling 13.45 million square feet were destroyed in the World Trade Center attack on Sept. 11, yet the buildings that remain have not filled up with tenants. In fact, there is a lot more empty office space downtown today than before the attack.
 As a result, restaurants, retailers and small businesses are complaining that the office workers who once clogged the winding streets have disappeared. And some residents near the trade center are fleeing their apartments rather than face being reminded of the thousands of people who lost their lives in the still-smoldering rubble. 
 According to Newmark & Company, there is 13.2 million square feet of vacant office space available in Lower Manhattan, up 49 percent, or 4.3 million square feet, since the firm surveyed the market on Sept. 10. In an illustration of both a flagging economy and concerns about life in Lower Manhattan, nearly half the available space came from corporate tenants that no longer need it because of layoffs or relocation to Midtown, Brooklyn or the suburbs. 
"It turned out that an awful lot of companies had excess inventory," said Jonathan Litt, senior real estate analyst for Salomon Smith Barney. "There's not a huge incentive to operate in Lower Manhattan today, because the transportation network is not operating. Five years from now when there's a redevelopment plan in place, it will continue to be a viable and vibrant business center."
No one is predicting the demise of New York as the international financial capital. Still, the trade center attack is accelerating the dispersal of financial institutions from Lower Manhattan to Midtown and Jersey City. But Mr. Litt said that as long as the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the Depository Trust, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank and Salomon Smith Barney stayed downtown, Lower Manhattan should retain its central role.
"It is very hard to unwind brain-trust markets like New York for the financial industry or San Francisco for the technology industry and move them to another city," Mr. Litt said. "There's just too much talent located in those markets." 
But the ranks are thinning and some analysts, urban planners and developers say that Mr. Litt is being overly optimistic, adding that it may take 10 years for Lower Manhattan to recover fully.
It is not just that a former trade center tenant like Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield decided to move its operations and 1,900 employees to Brooklyn and Midtown. Lehman Brothers, whose tower at the nearby World Financial Center suffered some structural damage, decided to move most of its operations to a new skyscraper nearing completion in Midtown, at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street. It is leaving behind about 1.8 million square feet of vacant office space downtown that will be available in about 14 months when the damage to the tower is repaired.
American Express, which had about 1 million square feet in the same building at the World Financial Center, is negotiating to move its headquarters to 787 Seventh Avenue at 52nd Street, and has leased additional office space in New Jersey.
Merrill Lynch has begun moving 6,000 employees back into the World Financial Center from temporary office space. But the investment bank, which is in the midst of another round of layoffs, is also putting a 400,000-square-foot block of vacant space there on the market, according to Richard Silverman, a spokesman for the company.
Goldman Sachs & Company, which has had a voracious appetite for downtown real estate in recent years, is quietly subleasing all of its space at 1 Liberty Plaza, the tower on the east side of the World Trade Center site, to other companies.
Randy Bradley, executive vice president of Gruntal & Company, said the retail investment broker planned to move back to 1 Liberty Plaza. But because of layoffs, Gruntal will only be using about 60,000 square feet of its space and subleasing the remaining 130,000.
"We're going back into an environment where it's more difficult to get around," Mr. Bradley said. "And then there's this devastation next door. I'm hoping it'll be a whole different ballgame once it becomes a construction site."
It is against this grim backdrop that Gov. George E. Pataki is putting together the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to funnel federal and state money into the revitalization of Lower Manhattan, not just the trade center site. 
The city's Independent Budget Office estimates that city revenues will fall short by $925 million this year and as much as $1.8 billion next year, due in large part to layoffs in the securities industry, a drop in Wall Street profits and the loss of tax revenue from downtown buildings.
It remains unclear, however, how much federal money will flow into New York. The White House and Congress have moved to give New York only $9.2 billion of a promised $20 billion in aid. An attempt to get another $9.73 billion in aid failed in a House committee on Wednesday. And the governor's lavish $54 billion aid request last month stalled amid criticism in Washington.
But the problems downtown faces today are also shaping the debate over what Lower Manhattan should look like in the future.
In the days after the attack, many developers and city officials had argued with patriotic fervor that if six big office towers had been destroyed, then six new buildings should be built immediately, with government subsidies to stimulate construction. 
But it soon became apparent that there was little demand for new office space. In the short term at least, real estate brokers said, any corporations that want to expand or move downtown, where rents are lower than in Midtown, can lease vacant space in existing buildings.
Some analysts and state officials now contend that it is more important to fix longstanding problems in Lower Manhattan, and to make the area more attractive to tourists and residential and commercial tenants.
"This is probably the fifth major crisis of confidence in downtown since 1959," said Robert D. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a private planning organization. "The solution has always been to subsidize some more office space. We don't deal with the fundamental problems in the neighborhood: you can't get there from here. The residential population in and around downtown is still only a fraction of what it should be, and it needs amenities like culture, arts, restaurants and retailing."
Mr. Yaro and others have proposed subway and rail improvements linking Lower Manhattan to Midtown and Westchester to the north, and to Brooklyn and Long Island to the east. He and a coalition of 80 civic groups have also called for a comprehensive plan that would reflect a more diverse economy and include residential development, cultural institutions and shopping, as well as office space and a substantial memorial park dedicated to the victims of the terror attack.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said the Pataki administration was focused on the long-term needs of Lower Manhattan, in particular, transportation. He said he favored building a terminal that would link a rebuilt PATH station at the trade center site with existing subway lines to the east. The state is also considering ways to better connect Battery Park City and the World Financial Center to the rest of Lower Manhattan by burying a stretch of West Street, which separates the enclave from the World Trade Center.
"It's important to focus on what's going to be helpful in the long term to revitalize Lower Manhattan, making it a place where people want to live, work and visit during the day and at night," Mr. Gargano said. "It's about transportation, transportation, transportation. When the market comes back, we're hoping that private developers will put up new buildings."
Mr. Gargano said he has also encouraged Larry Silverstein, the developer of 7 World Trade Center, to use the insurance money he expects to get to rebuild his tower, which was destroyed in the Sept. 11 attack. As for the trade center site itself, Mr. Gargano said it would take perhaps a year to clear the land. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey owns the site and would plan for its redevelopment, "but we do not have to follow the same design as in the past," Mr. Gargano said.
In the meantime, downtown tenants and landlords said that it remained difficult to move around the district because of the loss of a PATH rail terminal and three subway stations at or near the trade center. Many downtown workers and residents near the trade center also complained that the smoky, acrid air near the trade center site was an unwelcome reminder of the attack.
They said that too little had been done to assure companies that the problems would be fixed soon and to stave off another round of defections.
"Businesses are making their decisions right now as to what they're doing going forward," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership. "They want to have some certainty that downtown will return to normalcy and the level of amenities we had before the attack."
Ms. Wylde also worried that many of the transportation proposals by the Regional Plan Association and others were too expensive and grandiose and would be a distraction from getting the downtown PATH and subway stations reopened.
"The focus of public investment should be on infrastructure and making downtown more attractive for private investment," Ms. Wylde said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); RETAILERS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (70%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; BANKS AND BANKING; RESTAURANTS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BANKS AND BANKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



716 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/INTERNET; 
More Americans Online

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
The number of Americans logging on to the Internet reached a new high in October, with 115.2 million people going online at least once during the month, according to data from the measurement company Nielsen/NetRatings.
 The figure represents a 4 percent increase over the number of Internet users in September, and a 15 percent increase over October 2000. 
Nielsen/NetRatings estimates that 176.5 million people in the United States, or 62 percent of the population, have Internet access either at home or at work -- indicating that not everyone with Internet access logs on each month. 
 Sean Kaldor, vice president of analytical services for Nielsen/NetRatings, said the number of people going online decreased in September compared with August, probably because of back-to-school distractions. This year, that trend was even more pronounced, he said. 
 Even though news Web sites had an increase in traffic on Sept. 11 and for several weeks afterward, overall Internet use dropped. "Everyone ran to news sites but stayed away from everything else," Mr. Kaldor said. "Had we seen a decrease further for October, it would have been bad for e-tailers."
 Typically, Mr. Kaldor said, the strongest growth in Internet use happens in the fourth quarter. If that pattern continues, e-tailers will at least have a large number of virtual window-shoppers. Converting them to buyers, of course, is another matter. SUSAN STELLIN

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart:Number of Internet users (Millions)Graph showing the number of internet users. People with Internet access (As a percent of total population)Graph showing the number of people with internet access. Average time spent online (Hours a month)Graph showing the number of hours people spend online.(Source: Nielsen/NetRatings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RETAILERS (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NETRATINGS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



717 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Sales Outlook Roils Book Business 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
When the profitable life of a new hardcover book comes to an end, its publisher usually consigns it to an inconspicuous office building on Fifth Avenue near 26th Street in Manhattan that is the graveyard of unsold books. It is the headquarters for several companies that sell publishers' leftover copies back to bookstores for an undignified afterlife in the deeply discounted remainder bin.
 Bad news for publishers is good news at 230 Fifth Avenue, and this holiday season the graveyard may be the happiest place in the book business. 
 "We expect to nearly double our sales this year," said Paul L. Small, director of the New York office of the American Book Company, one of the remainder dealers. 
With terrorism, war and the threat of recession dominating consumers' attention this fall, the major publishers are having decreases in their sales of as much as 15 percent from last year's lackluster levels, according to executives at several big publishers and distributors. 
Most remarkably, publishers say that sales of the best-selling novels, even by blockbuster authors, are off by 25 percent to 40 percent from the level of last year's best sellers. "I have never seen anything like it, truly," said Carolyn Reidy, president of adult publishing at the Simon & Schuster division of Viacom. "I have seen softness in the market for books, but always the bigger books still sold -- that is why the falloff in name fiction is so horrifying."
Publishers prefer to attribute the drop to temporary effects of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 rather than to the economic slump. It is an article of faith in the industry that the sales of books are resilient during hard times as an inexpensive source of hours of entertainment. But as the downturn deepens, some publishers have started tightening their belts -- taking steps including sporadic layoffs, canceling sales conferences, reducing the size of print runs and telling editors to watch their expense-account lunches.
Some executives are talking about the inevitability of cutbacks in the number of new books published each year, a step that has sometimes alarmed authors and others mindful of books' central role in cultural and intellectual life. Five years ago, in an earlier downturn, industry cutbacks set off a public debate about the health of the book business, but since then publishers' output has steadily grown back.
Lorraine Shanley, principal in the industry consulting company Market Partners, said: "Either you have to cut back the number of books or you have to cut back the overall amount of the advances. You kind of choose your poison. You have to make accommodations if you want to have a healthy business."
The next two months will be pivotal to the book business because the holiday season usually accounts for more than a quarter of bookstores' annual sales, and lost opportunities to create publicity for a book at the time of its publication are seldom recovered. 
The industry's troubles began around this time last year. First, the once-soaring sales at online bookstores began to flatten, ending a source of new growth in book sales. Then, amid reports of a coming slowdown in the economy, the three largest bookstore chains -- Barnes & Noble, Borders and Books-A-Million -- all reported disappointing sales that barely rose over 1999 levels, excluding sales at new stores. Hopeful publishing and bookstore executives attributed the low volume to people's preoccupation with the electoral stalemate, which they said kept readers glued to television news and authors off the airwaves. 
Now, the public is more distracted and the condition of the economy is worse. This month, publishers received more gloomy tidings as Barnes & Noble, the largest chain, reported a decline in its October sales at many stores and scaled back its forecast for the holidays. The company reduced its sales projections at stores open more than a year from a previously expected increase of more than 4 percent to less than 2 percent above the already disappointing sales in 2000. (Barnes & Noble's stock fell 35 percent the next day, but mainly because of an unrelated accounting mix-up.)
In an interview, Leonard Riggio, chairman of Barnes & Noble, said he still expected bookstores to outperform other retailers. "The fourth quarter won't be what we like," he said, "and it may not be what the publishers would like, but I think we are going to do better than most."
The slowdown in book sales poses particular challenges for Amazon.com. The company has pledged in the fourth quarter to meet at least its own definition of an operating profit for the first time.
Amazon is unlikely to benefit from consumers' shopping online out of fear of terrorism at the mall, said Faye Landes, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. In a survey of 700 households, only 14 percent said they planned to do more shopping online this year than last, while 21 percent said they planned to do less, she said.
Still, Lyn Blake, a vice president at Amazon.com, seemed sanguine. "We feel like it is shaping up about as we expected," Ms. Blake said. Earlier this year, the company acknowledged that growth in online book sales had diminished.
Some publishers say they hope that shoppers will play catch-up. Rick Richter, president of the sales division of Simon & Schuster, said: "What we think is that people are going to wake up on Dec. 15 and freak out because they don't have a present for Aunt Millie, and it is going to be bedlam."
Susie Russenberger, executive vice president for books at Ingram, the largest book distributor, said she saw some signs of recovery and expected November and December to improve from last year.
Jane Friedman, chief executive of HarperCollins, said she also saw a few hopeful signs early this month after disappointments in September and October. After Sept. 11, she said, sales of HarperCollins' commercial novels -- for example, "The Forgotten," by Faye Kellerman and "Paradise Lost," by J. A. Jance -- plummeted.
"Popular fiction that was selling stopped dead in its tracks," Ms. Friedman added, "and they never came back to the level we had hoped."
For now, HarperCollins is adjusting to the downturn. "We are looking at every way we can to reduce excess costs," Ms. Friedman said, "We have no plans for any massive layoffs in any way, shape or form. But if somebody is not doing his or her job, this would be the ideal time to say goodbye."
Don Weisberg, chief operating officer of Random House in North America, the largest publisher and a division of Bertelsmann, said he foresaw 6 to 18 months of tough times ahead. "Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs in the last couple of months, all potential book buyers," he said. 
Publishers are already bracing for heavy returns of unsold books from bookstores. Executives made printing and distribution plans before Sept. 11, banking on scheduled media appearances and usual sales patterns. Then sales sank. "How could returns not be worse for the next year?" Mr. Weisberg said.
All of which is music to the ears of Mr. Small, the remainder dealer. "I expect there will be a lot of books to be had next spring," he said, sitting besides copies of newly remaindered books by the best-selling authors Robert B. Parker and Danielle Steel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul L. Small, director of the New York office of American Book, a remainder dealer, among his prospects. A soft industry is good news for him. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); HIJACKING (74%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HOLIDAY TRADE; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (90%); VIACOM INC (54%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



718 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
At Comdex, a Ticketmeister With Bluster

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
"So how many tickets do I have left?" 
 Fredric D. Rosen grilled his staff in a makeshift office above the convention center here where the world's biggest annual technology trade show, Comdex, was about to get under way. An aide's answer was not satisfactory. "What does 'a couple of rows' mean?" Mr. Rosen snapped. "I need precise numbers." 
 It was four hours before Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, was to make a speech on Sunday to kick off the conference's five-day run, and Mr. Rosen, the chairman and chief executive of the trade show's operator, the Key3Media Group, was doling out last-minute tickets for the speech to his biggest exhibitors.
"This is an important client," he gasped, his hands on his forehead as a handful of staff members looked on. "Are the seats any good? Where is U-211? I don't see it on the map. What? You put them in the balcony?"
A few minutes later, having tracked down better tickets, he dashed onto the conference floor, hand-delivering a new set of tickets to his important client: the New York Stock Exchange. "I didn't like the seats you got," he began as he arrived at the stock exchange's exhibit booth. 
For Mr. Rosen, the blustery entrepreneur who joined the Ticketmaster Corporation when it was a humble start-up and turned it into a multibillion-dollar behemoth in the 1980's and 1990's, running Key3Media is turning out to be a tough second act. 
Trying to charm clients with tickets -- a reliable trick he learned at Ticketmaster -- was one of his few opportunities to assuage exhibitors at Comdex, where attendance was only about 115,000, almost half of last year's total. The technology industry recession, combined with the reluctance of many people to fly these days, has made this a bad time to be in the technology trade show business. 
"The world's a different place than it was a year ago," Mr. Rosen readily acknowledged as he toured the conference floor, secured this year by metal detectors and bomb-sniffing dogs. "But I think it's important that we go back to normal, and this is an important part of doing that."
While Mr. Rosen, 58, says he relishes being an underdog, he did not bargain for such a daunting assignment when he signed up last year to take the reins of Key3Media. He surely did not need the money, having personally taken away tens of millions of dollars when he sold Ticketmaster to USA Networks in 1998. 
But Mr. Rosen, a former corporate lawyer, was seeking a challenge. He did not work for almost two years after selling Ticketmaster, then flirted with an offer to run the Columbia House mail-order music business before going with Key3Media, the world's only pure trade show company. Besides Comdex, Key3Media operates information-technology exhibitions that include JavaOne, Seybold Seminars and Net World+Interop.
Running Key3Media would have been a challenge even before the attacks of Sept. 11. The company's main trade shows are virtually all related to technology, and some of its clients are not just disappearing from the shows -- they are disappearing entirely.
"They were saying Comdex is dead as a computer show -- that's old news," he said. "It struck me that Comdex should reflect how technology evolves."
So Mr. Rosen went on a recruiting binge, signing up all sorts of new exhibitors, some of which are only tangentially related to the world of information technology. There was Mercedes-Benz, which had a huge booth displaying its latest cars filled with high-tech gizmos. He persuaded American Express to create a pavilion to demonstrate the "smart card" technology on its Blue credit cards. And he roped in the New York Stock Exchange, whose prominent booth demonstrated the technology that powers the exchange. 
But for all Mr. Rosen cares, Comdex could be a show for widgets. The appeal for him is marketing live events. "Don't ask me technology questions," he said. "I don't know what half these people do."
But he cares about them, and they seem to care about him. As he walked the show floor, exhibitors constantly approached him to wish him well. One, Erni Wade, a senior manger at National Semiconductor, rushed Mr. Rosen with a big hug and a kiss. With no prompting, she posed for a photographer, exclaiming, "See client love Fred."
Someone who has watched Mr. Rosen for years is John Pritzker, an investor in Key3Media who is the son of the late Chicago financier Jay Pritzker. The elder Mr. Pritzker helped bankroll Mr. Rosen when he remade Ticketmaster. Speaking of the trade show business, John Pritzker said: "This industry is fairly similar to the stadium business. At the risk of offending people, it's an old-boy network."
And Mr. Rosen is trying to become an old boy. His strategy for Key3Media is similar to his strategy at Ticketmaster. Just as he created long-term deals with stadiums and arenas around the country to deal exclusively with Ticketmaster, he is trying to create long-term deals with exhibitors and exhibition halls to sign up with Key3Media.
With some of the strongest trade show brands, Key3Media may be best poised to keep a healthy number of exhibitors during the downturn, while smaller trade shows, often owned by trade magazine publishers, lose exhibitors. (At most trade shows, the exhibitors are the main clients -- they pay for their booth space.)
And as in his days at Ticketmaster, he is not afraid to be a hard negotiator. He has already wriggled Key3Media out of a hotel contract, clinching a deal on better terms with the MGM Grand. 
Mr. Rosen played hardball back in his Ticketmaster days when he successfully defended a Justice Department lawsuit accusing him of strong-arming bands to sell music tickets through Ticketmaster. He also sued Microsoft for linking its users to pages on Ticketmaster's Web site; the suit was settled after he left Ticketmaster.
At Comdex, passing Monster.com's exhibit booth, which bore the slogan "Never Settle," Mr. Rosen pointed to it and said, "That's my motto."
Although he says he has mellowed in recent years, employees may have a hard time telling. In a running joke with one of his aides during Comdex, he would ask, "Have I fired you yet today?" And during a lull, when an assistant asked him what he wanted to do next, he glibly joked, "Is murder still a felony?"
Mr. Pritzker said his father had always liked Mr. Rosen's mischievous side. He added, "I once said, 'There'll never be a Fred Rosen Beanie Baby,' and that's still true."
But Mr. Rosen says his hardboiled demeanor should not be mistaken for the real thing. "I'm not tough," he said. "I chase inanimate pieces of paper. Tough is guys going to fight in Afghanistan. Tough is going into the World Trade Center when everyone is running out. That's tough. There is nothing tough about what I do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fredric D. Rosen, chairman and chief executive of the Key3Media Group, which runs the Comdex show, got help from Spider-Man in practicing a presentation last week. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DOGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); METAL DETECTORS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMDEX (COMPUTER TRADE SHOW); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); KEY 3 MEDIA GROUP INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: KEY3MEDIA GROUP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%) SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (55%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; ROSEN, FREDERIC D 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



719 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: AUTO RACING; 
Gordon Is Right Guy For the Turns Ahead

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE

DATELINE: HAMPTON, Ga. 

 BODY:
My year at speed, like the gasoline in poor Jerry Nadeau's tank, dwindled away on this lovely southern Sunday as Jeff Gordon took his rightful throne and Bobby Labonte, last year's champion, reached Victory Lane only because the front-runner disregarded the advice you give your children on every road trip -- never pass up a pit stop. 
 Yesterday's Napa 500 at the 1.54-mile Atlanta Motor Speedway was supposed to be the final race of the Winston Cup season, but the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks affected even this beers-and-gears fantasy world. The Sept. 16 race in New Hampshire was postponed until Friday, despite the complaints of race teams that their first holiday of the year would be ruined, in wintry conditions yet. 
 They might as well stay home for Thanksgiving. 
The Winston Cup has the new champion it wanted to steer it through the economic turbulence ahead. Jeff Gordon, the adorable 30-year-old yuppie, finished sixth yesterday, adding enough season points to clinch his fourth title.
Only the icons of the sport, Richard Petty and Dale Earnhardt Sr., who each won seven, earned more titles than Gordon, and it took them more than the nine seasons it took him. 
The traditional red-state, blue-collar fans have tended to discount Gordon as a middle-class, California-born, Indiana-raised wheel brat whose parents changed his oil since he started racing at 4. But those fans are becoming less important as network TV and a new class of sponsors are casting a wider net for more upscale customers. 
The emerging favorite of all seems to be Dale Earnhardt Jr., who is roaring out of his father's shadow with stronger and stronger performances. Junior won the pole position, proof of a fast car, and led the race for 171 of its 305 laps, taking the lead seven different times before dropping to seventh place. It wasn't his day after all. 
It was Labonte's. Labonte, a 37-year-old Texan who drives for the former football coach Joe Gibbs, has had a rough season of wrecks and mechanical difficulties, winning only one race before yesterday. He failed to qualify for this race, starting 39th, with a provisional placement. He set a modern record for coming the longest distance to win. 
And that, he admitted, was a gift. Labonte was running second at the end when Nadeau, who led the race from the 305th through the 324th laps, suddenly began to slow on the final lap. He simply ran out of gas. It happens. Despite the computerized fuel monitors in the pits, crew chiefs are always taking calculated risks about time lost for tire changing and refueling. 
Labonte said that his spotter told him over the radio that it looked as though Nadeau was running on empty. Labonte said to himself, "Yeah, sure, with my luck." 
He was willing, however, to find portents in his change of luck, especially after he learned that Gordon had won the title. He, too, hopes to come back from a bad year as Gordon just did. 
Gordon is beginning to get grudging respect in the garage area. For years, he was considered the extension of the crew chief Ray Evernham, who guided him to his first three titles. Gordon's career sagged when Evernham left the owner Rick Hendrick to own his own team. But this year, the second with the crew chief Robbie Loomis, Gordon bloomed again. 
"Gordon's always had good equipment," Labonte said, "but he knows it and he doesn't take all the credit. But he can take a good car and make it better than a lot of other guys." 
Gordon, in conversation, is more earnest than smooth in giving credit, to the crew chief Loomis's leadership and to the owner Hendrick's resources. He says he is motivated by criticism. It helps him stay level. 
"When stuff goes right, I feel like the master out there," he said. "But I know that when things are not going right, the same guy is driving out there." 
There is no question about Gordon's talent as a driver and his emerging maturity as part of a race team. But one of his greatest strengths at a moment when Nascar is facing budget cuts by sponsors and less leisure-time spending money from fans is his Michael Jordan-esque ability to be chatty without being threatening. A hero who won't scare the horses or pervert the kids. Gordon is polite, sometimes giggly and relentlessly humble. A devout Christian, he rarely flings his religiosity into conversation. 
He says he has no time for real reflection because "we're in demand to keep moving on," although the events of Sept. 11 "put things in perspective that winning championships are not the most important thing." 
He said he was looking forward to the Nascar awards banquet in New York, because they had "planned some neat things" at ground zero to "show our appreciation." 
But first, Thanksgiving in New Hampshire. Wouldn't the new champion like to take the day off? 
"There's a race to be run," he said stoutly, "and fans who deserve to see us."

The Series So Far

This is the 19th article in a series following auto racing. Previous articles were about a dramatic return to Daytona, death on the track, religion under the checkered flag and life in the pits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); THANKSGIVING (75%); TERRORISM (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



720 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Phillips and Conoco to Form U.S. Gasoline Giant 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
The Phillips Petroleum Company and Conoco Inc. agreed yesterday to merge, creating an oil company with a market value of $35 billion. It would be the nation's largest gasoline retailer and would combine pump brands like Conoco, Phillips 66, Union 76 and Circle K.
 The deal is the latest step in the relentless consolidation of the oil and gas industry. For Phillips and Conoco, both proudly independent, the merger comes as an acknowledgment that they can no longer afford to go it alone. Plummeting oil prices have eroded the value of their stocks, making companies like them vulnerable to takeovers. 
 Joining forces as ConocoPhillips, as the company would be called, would allow Conoco and Phillips to preserve a measure of independence and marshal the billions of dollars needed for exploration, production and the latest technology. 
"Everyone is trying to get into higher-risk, higher-reward fields, and both have tilted that way," said Scott Smith, a senior oil analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "Both of them have done fairly well playing niche markets and now can be players of size."
ConocoPhillips would be the nation's third-largest oil and gas company and the world's sixth-largest, based on reserves. But the deal would not make them fully competitive with the so-called oil supermajors, like Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/ Shell and BP.
"Size is a plus, but they won't have the same economies of scale and geographical spread as the three biggest companies have," said Kate Warne, an oil analyst with the brokerage firm Edward Jones. "They still have to define strategies carefully and look for core areas and not spread their resources too thin."
Although the companies described their agreement as a merger of equals, Phillips appears, in some respects, to be the acquirer. Phillips shareholders would get one share of the new company for each Phillips share they hold; they would end up owning 56.6 percent of the combined company. Conoco shareholders, who would get 0.4677 share of the new company for each Conoco share, would own 43.4 percent. The combined company would have $18.6 billion in debt.
Archie W. Dunham, Conoco's chairman and chief executive, would become chairman of ConocoPhillips and would delay his retirement to 2004. James J. Mulva, the Phillips chairman and chief executive, would be president and chief executive officer of the combined company and would become chairman upon Mr. Dunham's retirement. Each company would have eight seats on the new board.
At some merged companies -- like Citigroup, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and DaimlerChrysler -- plans to share authority at the top have faltered. But Matthew Warburton, a senior oil analyst at UBS Warburg, said that such an arrangement at ConocoPhillips would probably work out.
"I think you have two people in Archie and Jim who can work together," Mr. Warburton said. "I don't see strikingly dissimilar cultures, as we had with, say, Exxon and Mobil when they first got together."
The combined company would be based in Houston, Conoco's headquarters, but executives said it would keep a presence in Bartlesville, Okla., where Phillips is based. They refused to say how many of the combined work force of 58,500 employees worldwide would be cut. 
As with previous industry mergers, Conoco and Phillips plan to focus on greater exploration and production. Right now, about 57 percent of the combined company's business would be from exploration and production, Mr. Dunham said. The company would like to increase that proportion to 60 to 70 percent, he added.
The companies have each staked out significant positions in mature but still productive oil and gas basins in places like Alaska, northern Canada and the North Sea. They have also won coveted places in new ventures, including in two international consortiums that have been tapped by Saudi Arabia to develop its huge gas fields. 
Together, the companies will have proven reserves equivalent to 8.7 billion barrels of oil and daily production of 1.7 million barrels. Exxon Mobil, the industry leader, has 21.5 billion barrels of reserves and daily production of 2.6 million barrels.
Like other powerful, newly merged companies, ConocoPhillips would also place a greater emphasis on natural gas. Mr. Dunham said that about 38 percent of the combined company's holdings right now were in natural gas but that the goal was to increase that share to 50 percent.
With the nation's leaders debating how best to reduce reliance on Middle East oil, Mr. Dunham was quick to point out that the combined company would have more than 70 percent of its reserves in North America and the North Sea.
Canada and Alaska offer enormous, undeveloped natural gas reserves, and the Gulf of Mexico holds huge, untapped oil and gas deposits. But analysts said that for the most part, North America and the North Sea were mature basins where oil companies would gradually scale back. 
"Clearly, saying that was the flavor of the times," said Mr. Warburton, the analyst, referring to Mr. Dunham's comments. "But those are the areas that people are looking to diversify away from."
As geology would have it, some of the most promising opportunities for oil and gas companies are in places more volatile than Norway or northern Canada. But Conoco in particular has never been shy about entering tricky regions, be it Russia, Vietnam or Venezuela, and planting its flag. Phillips, for its part, has a sizable stake in the Kashagan oil field in the Caspian region of Kazakhstan.
The merger comes on the heels of acquisitions each company made earlier this year. In the spring, Phillips bought Tosco, the country's largest independent refiner, and Conoco purchased Gulf Canada Resources in July. Conoco was itself spun off by DuPont in 1999.
The companies are hoping to save $750 million annually by combining exploration projects and cutting staff, adding to earnings per share in the first year. 
"For example, if they have two drilling rigs next to one another that are not working at full capacity, they might get rid of one," said Ms. Warne, of Edward Jones. "Companies always save because they will not do as many projects as before. When they put two lists of exploration projects side by side, they will lop off the bottom 10 percent or so, which are good projects but not great."
The deal would require approval by regulators. Since gasoline prices are low and the combined company would have much bigger competitors, analysts expect the government to approve the deal. Mr. Mulva said, "We see no conditions going forth that would change the deal materially."
While analysts generally agreed with that, some thought the companies might have to sell some properties or operations that overlap somewhat in the United States. Several noted that regulators might be likely to scrutinize their operations in the Rocky Mountain region because both companies have many gasoline stations there. 
If either company reneges on the deal, it would be forced to pay a $550 million breakup fee.
Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse First Boston and Salomon Smith Barney acted as financial advisers, and Cravath, Swaine & Moore acted as legal counsel to Conoco. Goldman, Sachs & Company, J. P. Morgan Securities and Merrill Lynch & Company acted as financial advisers and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal counsel to Phillips.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "IN THE WORKS: Abundant Energy"Two oil companies, Conoco and Phillips Petroleum, have agreed to merge in a move that will create a firm valued at about $35 billion. ConocoFOUNDED: 1875HEADQUARTERS: HoustonCHAIRMAN AND C.E.O.: Archie W. DunhamEMPLOYEES: 20,000ANNUALIZED REVENUES: $41 billionASSETS: $27.7 billionMARKET VALUE: $15.2 billion PhillipsFOUNDED: 1917HEADQUARTERS: Bartlesville, Okla.CHAIRMAN AND C.E.O.: James J. MulvaEMPLOYEES: 38,500ANNUALIZED REVENUES: $22.5 billionASSETS: $35.4 billionMARKET VALUE: $19.8 billion(Source: The companies)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); BONDS (69%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (98%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (83%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); EDWARD D JONES & CO LP (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONOCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO 

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (98%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (98%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (98%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (98%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (98%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (98%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: JAMES MULVA (78%) BANERJEE, NEELA; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



721 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Gore Campaign Manager To Be President of SBC
William M. Daley, the campaign manager for Al Gore's unsuccessful presidential bid, has decided to move down to what was once the enemy's territory, Texas, to become president of SBC Communications.
 The appointment to the newly created position places Mr. Daley second in command behind Edward E. Whitacre Jr., SBC's chairman and chief executive. The move is set to be formally announced today. Page C2. 

'Harry Potter' Sets Movie Record
"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" enjoyed the biggest three-day opening weekend in film history, taking in $93.5 million. Parents and children praised the movie, saying it hewed closely to the book. E1.

Escapism and Fantasy Lift Ratings
In what executives at every network described as an astonishing surprise, a two-hour concert by Michael Jackson on CBS attracted more than 26 million viewers on Tuesday. Two nights later, an ABC special devoted to models wearing lingerie from Victoria's Secret also surpassed expectations. Network executives said the success of the two specials advanced a growing conclusion that viewers were hungry for the most basic kind of diversion. C10.

From Ticketmaster to Trade Shows
For Fredric D. Rosen, who joined Ticketmaster when it was a humble start-up and turned it into a multibillion-dollar behemoth, running Key3Media, which operates trade shows, is turning out to be a tough second act. C4.

I.B.M. in Venture With Kroll
I.B.M. plans to announce today that its Global Services arm will jointly market a package of security services with Kroll. C2.

Paying for Content Is a Tough Sell
For Web sites hurt by falling advertising revenue, a second shoe may have dropped: Web users are abandoning sites that ask them to pay for content, a new survey has found. C7.

New Math for Fiber Optic Networks
According to the new math used by many telecommunications companies, crucial links in their fiber optic networks can be operating at or near capacity even if the nation's fiber networks are 95 percent empty. Judging from the bankruptcies of some carriers and the stock prices of others, the financial world is not too impressed with the new math. The carriers' argument is that a distinction must be drawn between the total fiber put in the ground and the fiber that is equipped to transmit voice, video and data. New Economy. C4.

Retailers Stick With Web Gift Lists
The anemic demand for online gift registries has not discouraged retailers, who see online wish lists as a way to get new customers cheaply, reduce return rates and give merchants early notice on product demand. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

German Bank in Talks for Enron Unit
A large German bank, WestLB, is in talks to buy Wessex Water from Enron, people close to the discussions said. C2.

Tales of Gloom and Doom in Japan
If books are a window into a society, readers would think Japan was on the verge of collapse as volumes with titles like "The Day the Yen Disappears" fill bookstores. C10.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,866.99 up 258.99Nasdaq composite -- 1,898.58 up 70.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.58% up 0.54The euro -- $0.8843 down 0.0097The dollar -- 122.82 yen up 2.62 Graph: "TODAY" shows housing construction since April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (72%); FILM HISTORY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (64%); RETAILERS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (86%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%); WESTLB AG (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: AL GORE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



722 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: An Old Politician Moves to the Boardroom 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
William M. Daley, the campaign chairman of Al Gore's unsuccessful presidential bid, has decided to move down to what was once enemy territory, Texas, to become president of SBC Communications.
 The appointment to a newly created position places Mr. Daley second in command behind Edward E. Whitacre Jr., chairman and chief executive of SBC, the giant regional Bell company, based in San Antonio. The move was approved last week by the SBC board and is to be formally announced today. 
 Mr. Daley's selection comes as SBC is fighting on several financial and regulatory fronts to enter new long-distance and high-speed Internet markets and return to a period of greater profitability. 
As many of its customers sought to cope with their own economic troubles by cutting back on telecommunications services, SBC reported last month that its third-quarter profit fell 30 percent and that it would eliminate thousands of jobs. The company also cut back on a $6 billion project, known as Pronto, intended to make fast Web access available to 77 million people by the end of the year. 
Before heading the Gore campaign, Mr. Daley served as secretary of commerce in the Clinton administration. His blood runs thick with politics. His brother Richard M. Daley is the mayor of Chicago, an office held for years by their father, Richard J. Daley, and Mr. Daley himself had earlier this year considered a run for governor of Illinois. 
Since the end of the presidential campaign, though, he has been vice chairman of Evercore Capital Partners, an investment firm in New York. And he said on Friday that he had decided he had no further interest in politics, at least for now.
"Done that, been there," Mr. Daley said in response to a question about why he chose to forsake politics for the corporate world, adding that he had no intention in the next presidential campaign of playing anything like the role he had in the last one. "I'm a member of the team of SBC," he said, "and politics is not something I will be involved in other than as a citizen voting."
Nonetheless, Mr. Daley will not be far from Washington politics and policy circles, and his ties to the Midwest, particularly Illinois, could prove useful in those markets for SBC. As the nation's second-largest regional Bell company after Verizon Communications, SBC provides service to 60 million customers in 13 states. 
Mr. Whitacre, his new boss, said that Mr. Daley would have a broad portfolio, not only of regulatory and policy issues, but also international relations and strategic planning.
"I was looking for an effective leader that understands the intersection of business and policy," Mr. Whitacre said. 
Among the issues Mr. Daley will oversee is the company's efforts to push legislation through Congress that would make it easier for the regional Bells to roll out high-speed Internet service. Mr. Daley and Mr. Whitacre said that the company's push into those markets was vital to increasing profits. 
In Washington, SBC and the other Bell companies are engaged in a fierce political battle with the cable industry over a measure that would deregulate the telephone carriers -- legislation sponsored by Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the committee. 
The legislation stands a strong chance of being passed in the House but has stalled in the Senate, where it is opposed by powerful lawmakers including Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina and head of the Commerce Committee.
Mr. Daley, 53, served as a banker and a law partner in Chicago before joining the federal government in 1993 to oversee President Bill Clinton's campaign for passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement. He was appointed commerce secretary in 1997. Under his leadership, the agency produced a report urging the government to take steps to close the "digital divide" between the technological haves and have-nots. He stepped down in the summer of 2000 to run Mr. Gore's campaign.
He said he met Mr. Whitacre at a dinner about a year and a half ago that was arranged by a mutual friend, and thy had since grown closer.
"We just hit it off," Mr. Whitacre said. "It became clear we share the same values."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Daley, former Gore campaign chairman and secretary of commerce, has decided to give up electoral politics for the present. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); LEGISLATION (60%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) SBC COMMUNICATIONS; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%) LABATON, STEPHEN; DALEY, WILLIAM M; GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



723 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: The Specter of Nuclear Terror 

 BODY:
For most Americans there is no more frightening threat than terrorists with nuclear weapons. Assuming Osama bin Laden does not already have them -- the assumption most experts make -- everything possible must be done to prevent him or other terrorists from obtaining them. 
 The starting point is Russia, where poorly protected nuclear bombs and materials remain vulnerable to theft. It is not enough that President Bush and Vladimir Putin, Russia's president, have agreed to greatly reduce the number of nuclear missiles in each country's arsenal. The two leaders must also do more to safeguard the remaining weapons and any vulnerable nuclear materials in Russia that could be used to make bombs if stolen. 
 Russia insists that it is guarding its weapons carefully. But a Russian general raised concern recently when he revealed that terrorists have twice this year conducted surveillance at a Russian nuclear arms storage facility, presumably with an eye to storming it. Another Russian general created alarm four years ago by asserting that many of Russia's small, portable nuclear bombs could not be accounted for. That was emphatically denied at the time, and was denied again just recently.
An alternative path to nuclear capability is for terrorists to make a weapon themselves. That would be extremely difficult for most terrorist groups -- far harder than making a chemical or biological weapon -- but it can't be ruled out entirely. The primary barrier has always been the difficulty of obtaining or producing the highly enriched uranium or the plutonium that would be needed to make a bomb. Unfortunately, the opportunities for theft have multiplied in recent years as the political and economic disintegration of the former Soviet Union has left many sites only loosely guarded, and their nuclear experts impoverished and vulnerable to bribes. 
With enough plutonium or highly enriched uranium in hand, a terrorist group with three or four specialists in its ranks, a machine shop and sufficient time could probably make a crude nuclear weapon, weighing more than a ton. That, at least, was the alarming verdict of five American nuclear weapons experts who examined the question a few years ago. Even terrorist groups that were short on expertise and had only low-grade radioactive materials from medicine or industry could make a "dirty bomb" in which radioactive materials are placed around conventional explosives, with the goal of contaminating a large area.
With so much nuclear material in the former Soviet Union potentially vulnerable, it would seem imperative to swiftly safeguard the warheads and fissile materials not yet adequately protected. Farsighted cooperative programs begun a decade ago have done much to upgrade security at Russian nuclear facilities and to retain Russian scientists who might be tempted to sell their expertise. But the effort is proceeding at too lackadaisical a pace, and the Bush administration seems inclined to let it creep along. 
A task force led by former Senator Howard Baker and Lloyd Cutler, a former White House counsel, called early this year for a huge increase in financing. Yet Congress has approved less than $200 million for such programs in the 2002 fiscal year, a small fraction of what the panel recommended, and the Bush administration has rebuffed attempts to boost the supplemental terrorism package to provide more. One way or another more money should be found. Even more important, Presidents Bush and Putin need to summon the political will to brush aside all obstacles that have slowed the program. Otherwise, the growing sophistication of terrorist groups will eventually overtake the lagging efforts to keep nuclear weapons out of their reach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (97%); TERRORISM (96%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DIRTY BOMBS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); EXPLOSIVES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (70%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001 



724 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: The Guggenheim's Scaled-Back Ambition; 
A Museum Director's Risk-Taking Approach Gets a New Look in Hard Times

BYLINE:  By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

 BODY:
In a profession known for its caution, Thomas Krens, director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, has always been something of a high roller, a larger-than-life character who rides around on a BMW motorcycle and challenges conventional notions about art, money and museum management.
 Mr. Krens, an imposing 6-foot-5-inch figure with an M.B.A. in management from Yale, does little halfway. He has made exhibitions out of motorcycles and Italian suits and turned them into blockbusters. He gambled on a new museum in a gritty industrial city in Spain and ended up with Guggenheim Bilbao, an architectural wonder from Frank Gehry and a financial success. 
 But now the hard times have come to the Guggenheim Museum on Fifth Avenue, and like the good times before them, they have hit big. Admissions are down by almost 60 percent, revenue is running about half of what it is supposed to be, and as of Friday 80 employees -- roughly one-fifth of the staff -- had been given pink slips in what Mr. Krens described as the initial round of layoffs. 
Besides the staff cuts, which reportedly may reach 40 percent, the museum has scaled back its exhibit schedule, postponing exhibitions by Matthew Barney and Kasimir Malevich. Its SoHo museum on Prince Street will close at the end of the year, and the fate of its $20 million Web site, guggenheim.com, is still unclear.
In the old days Mr. Krens's ambitions were global, and his dreams were of another shimmering palace designed by Mr. Gehry, this one to be on the southern tip of Manhattan. That project is very much up in the air; it may still happen, but for the moment Mr. Krens's sights are set lower. Now his goal is to "go into 2002 with a balanced budget," he said in an interview last week.
This is the new Guggenheim after Sept. 11, crippled, Mr. Krens said, by a devastating drop in out-of-town tourism and a plunge in donors' portfolios. Other New York museums have been hit hard by the same downturn, but the Guggenheim is clearly suffering the most. The question is whether Mr. Krens, 54, is in part to blame for having reached too far too fast.
Ever the showman, Mr. Krens has now cast himself as a model of fiscal responsibility. "I think it is appropriate for an institute to re-examine its core mission," he said. "This is an opportunity for us to do that, triggered, perhaps, by Sept. 11.
"I think the things we are doing are extremely prudent," he added.
His critics say Mr. Krens's born-again prudence comes a little late. For years, many of his peers in the Manhattan museum world have contended that the Guggenheim operation was a house of cards, a global empire with colonies in Venice, Bilbao, Berlin and most recently Las Vegas that is fatally addicted to new streams of revenue to cover old debts and risky gambles.
Now bets are being called in. "When you are in a good economy, you can play on the edge," said a finance expert at another museum. "But when it goes sour, there is a danger of being caught out."
Some of the Guggenheim's latest ventures have proved particularly vulnerable. Its two new minimuseums in Las Vegas, one of them shared with the State Hermitage Museum in Russia, opened on the weekend in October when the war began in Afghanistan. Mr. Krens said attendance in the first month was 3,000, about 40 percent of expectations. The second venture, an ambitious for-profit Web site, guggenheim.com that went up last month, has barely taken flight and is still awaiting a second infusion of venture capital. 
Mr. Krens described himself as cautiously optimistic about the future of the dot-com, which is financed by private investors with the Guggenheim Foundation as a majority stockholder. In 2000 it paid the Guggenheim a substantial amount of the $5.9 million increase from 1999 in royalties and other fees received by the museum, said Laurie Beckelman, deputy director for special projects at the Guggenheim. A smaller amount was paid in 2001, she said.
The foundation's reliance on the dot-com added to its risk at a time when financial markets, particularly technology stocks, went into decline.
Mr. Krens insisted that all of the Guggenheim operations were self-sustaining. Yet in each of the past two years the Guggenheim Foundation, which runs the global operations from separate offices on Fifth Avenue, has shifted money from its endowment to meet both operating costs and debt payments. The total amount shifted over the two years was $23.3 million, of which $10.5 million was taken in 2000 to help dramatically reduce the museum's outstanding debt, to $28 million from $42 million.
"The emphasis has been on bringing down the debt," Ms. Beckelman said. "The markets were strong, and we had a donor who was willing to take this incredible opportunity to do it." She did not identify the donor.
Other museums dip into their endowments but usually as a last resort. By using the endowment for operating expenses, the Guggenheim has been left with a relatively modest endowment for a museum of its stature and scope. Mr. Krens said the endowment is now $58 million, up from $24 million when he took over in 1988, but his figure includes a $10.5 million contribution for the acquisition of art and other dedicated gifts. According the stricter interpretations used in financial statements, the endowment figure as of Dec. 31, 2000, was $37 million, representing a 54 percent increase in a period when other funds were soaring and the Guggenheim was benefiting from an extraordinary wave of giving.
"Tom was very aggressive," said one former Guggenheim employee who asked not to be identified because he is still active in the world of nonprofit organizations. "He was able to cobble together funds from very large institutions which have come up with large amounts of money." By all accounts the largest contributor by far has been Peter B. Lewis, chairman of the Guggenheim board and head of the Progressive Corporation, an auto-insurance company in Ohio. Mr. Lewis could not be reached to discuss his contributions to the museum, but Mr. Krens said his support for the planned museum in Lower Manhattan was "absolutely secure."
From the beginning of his tenure Mr. Krens saw that he would have to carve out a different path for the Guggenheim, away from the traditional course taken by other museums in the city.
"I don't think anyone should lose sight of where the museum was a decade ago," said a museum administrator who worked closely with Mr. Krens in the early 1990's. "The choice then was shut down or reduce the museum to a jewel, a kind of snapshot in time like the Frick. The other alternative was to do something different and raise its visibility internationally."
Some of the Guggenheim's international reputation was literally built into its structures. Its Frank Lloyd Wright building in New York has long been a stop for foreign tourists, some of whom may have already known the Venice museum, housed in a palazzo on the Grand Canal that had been the home of Peggy Guggenheim.
The huge success of the Gehry building in Bilbao -- perhaps the boldest of the museum's gambles -- and Mr. Krens's own jet-setting ways have added to the Guggenheim's international reputation and lured major foreign donors to the board. "The further out you go, the Guggenheim is a very highly regarded institution," Mr. Krens said.
But that has also made the Guggenheim more vulnerable to the fickle tides of New York tourism. Of the museum's one million visitors a year, almost 70 percent are from out of town, and 50 percent are from abroad, Mr. Krens said. In addition the Guggenheim is more reliant than most museums on admission fees, which account for 25 percent of total revenue, compared with 12 percent at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Its critics see this as a weakness in his management approach. "They were forced into being a cash machine," said one director of a New York museum who asked not to be identified because he did not want to be seen as criticizing a rival.
Museum directors have also been critical of Mr. Krens's curatorial decisions -- in particular a lavish exhibition of fashions by Giorgio Armani, the Italian designer whose reported $15 million gift to the Guggenheim Foundation was seen as an unseemly quid pro quo.
Now as he heads into leaner times, Mr. Krens said, he intends to spend more time building the endowment, but he also expressed no regrets. "Ask yourself the question, Is the world better off, or is it worse off as a result," he said. "Would it be better if we didn't do any programming, had a staff of 200, didn't build Bilbao, didn't have Berlin commissioning works of art or let Venice languish?" 
One member of the Guggenheim board said that even before the board's meeting in October, pressure had been put on Mr. Krens to curb his spending. "Just when everyone was getting optimistic and feeling that there was some kind of balance, this happens," he said, referring to the drastic drop in revenue.
The trustee said the board accepted the new cuts as proof that Mr. Krens was now ready to face facts. "The easy thing and the traditional thing would have been to fudge the finances and move things around," he said. "We went away from the Oct. 9 meeting feeling that we are facing the music. It was not a macabre death knell, but it was sobering reality."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Guggenheim's distinctive efforts have included, clockwise beginning below, an exhibition on motorcycles in Las Vegas, a sculpture called "Mum" in Bilbao and an Armani exhibition in New York. (Txema Fernandez/Agence France-Presse); (Reuters); (Ellen Labenski/Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum); (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Thomas Krens, left, and the architect Frank Gehry scouted possible museum sites in Brazil last year. (Marcelo Carnaval/Agencia o Globo)(pg. E1); A scale model of the Guggenheim museum proposed for Lower Manhattan. The project may still happen, but with revenue off the museum's director, Thomas Krens, says his goal is now simply a balanced budget. (Associated Press)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); MOTORCYCLES (72%) ART; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; KRENS, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); BRAZIL (79%); SPAIN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



725 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: For a Shopping Spree, the Closet's the Place 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY 

 BODY:
There was, in the language of the H.M.O.'s, a pre-existing condition. Even before the "in the wake ofs" and "in the aftermath ofs," in those distant-seeming days when the news media hadn't yet begun diagnosing these as "uncertain times," American retailing was already experiencing plenty of distress. Sales were slumping. Anyone who visited a mall felt the cold winds whistling down empty aisles.
 At the Spring 2002 ready-to-wear shows in Paris last month, the fashion director for an American department store remarked that "it's going to get worse before it gets better." And while last week interest rates unexpectedly jumped and the government reported a 7.1 percent increase in retail sales for October, primarily thanks to cars rolling out of showrooms, a divergent reality seemed to hold on at Manhattan's premier stores. 
 At Bergdorf Goodman, Betty Halbreich, a personal shopper who has been on the staff for three decades, griped last week that "you can't even get the floor vacuumed around here because visual is doing up every inch of the place" with evergreen garlands in preparation for Santa. 
"It's the kind of thing we never used to do," Ms. Halbreich said. Ira Neimark, she went on, referring to Bergdorf's former chairman, "didn't even believe in Christmas." She added, "He used to say, 'Bergdorf's is not a Christmas store.' "
It is now. "We've got to get people back into the stores, and out of their closets," Ms. Halbreich said. 
In a number of recent interviews with consumers, it became clear that, for reasons as various as the weak economy, a revised moral climate and a guilt hangover following years of glut, the closet has become the hottest store in town. 
"We should go out and exercise our liberties, which some of us, unfortunately, are not at liberty to do," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said at an October news conference inaugurating the Council of Fashion Designers of America's Shop for America campaign. "Freedom to shop is one of the fundamental liberties, what terrorists want to deprive us of."
Yet even with the mayor exhorting people to spend, Gay Feldman, an artists' representative, said that it doesn't feel right," adding, "After 9/11, it feels unconscionable and insensitive to be trying to be up to the minute. " 
As soon as practical after the attacks, Ms. Feldman and various family members emptied their safe deposit boxes of jewelry. "It wasn't just us," she said. "It was a lot of women I know." Her motivation, Ms. Feldman explained, was a "wartime" mentality. "It's very much grandmother's thinking," she said. "If I have to run, I want my diamond ring and anything else that I can turn into liquid assets." 
Now that the jewelry is literally close at hand, Ms. Feldman finds herself adorning her Prada asceticism with "heavy gold bracelets and a giant amethyst cocktail ring." If there was one truism the events of Sept. 11 confirmed for many, it is that pleasure, in whatever odd form, should not be postponed. 
"I would not like to be a retailer right now," Marian Rivman, a public relations consultant, said. "Ever since the attacks, I have no heart for shopping. The whole notion that we have too much is totally confirmed when you know you have sweaters you put away two years ago and forgot and the news is full of people in Afghanistan climbing mountains with their feet in rags." 
Ms. Rivman's wardrobe concerns have veered sharply toward the pragmatic, or at least toward clothes that can seem that way in unreliable times. "The first thing I did was check my shoes," she said. Almost anything not suited to running for one's life was tossed. 
Late last month, Giulia Melucci, a publicist at Scribner, found herself in a checkout line at a Banana Republic holding a pair of black pants and a black sweater that, she realized, were minutely different from black pants and a black sweater that she already owned. "It was clearly not a matter of need," Ms. Melucci said. "I thought to myself, 'This is wrong.' That 'these are old and I don't like them anymore' idea is something I would have done in the old world, but not in the new world." Two feet shy of the register, she ditched the clothes. 
Even Dara Perlbinder, an Upper East Sider who moves in a sphere where wardrobes are strategized with war room precision, and where the two least often heard words are "last year," found herself suddenly "not caring as much," she said. "I feel like I already have lots of things in my closet I can wear," she continued.
Soon after the terrorist attacks, Barbara Heizer started mining her closet. "I found myself saying, 'What do I need that for, I've already got so much?' " Ms. Heizer, a freelance editor and writer, said. Seated beneath a 1970's Andy Warhol portrait of her, in her TriBeCa loft, Ms. Heizer wore a pair of decade-old Manolo Blahnik equestrian-style boots, a "very old" but revamped Donna Karan motorcycle jacket and a 1996 Chanel dress. For some time now, she explained, so-called vintage clothes have seemed to her "much cooler than anything coming out in the stores." 
If this is the kind of utterance that might send most retailers reaching for the hemlock, it should be pointed out that the stock in Ms. Heizer's closets runs to Azzedine Alaia, Yves Saint Laurent and Chanel. Ms. Heizer, a lifelong and ardent shopper, said: "After 9/11, I have hardly been in stores. I looked in the closet and felt I was covered. I had the stuff. I didn't need to get out there and work the plastic anymore."
When this reporter called Amy Fine Collins, a fashion writer whose deeper purpose might be confirming the need for an International Best Dressed List, she said, "You dialed the right number." Speaking from a cellphone while having a pedicure, Ms. Collins said that, since Sept. 11, she had been "having recurrent dreams of going into my closet and discovering clothes and shoes there that I had entirely forgotten about." 
It is, Ms. Collins said, "an entirely fresh thrill." It is also, she went on, something that actually occurs. 
In mid-September, on one of "those insanely surreal blue skies days," Ms. Collins explained, she had left the house not wearing one of many Geoffrey Beene outfits that have caused some people to refer to her as the muse of that particular designer, but a cotton striped blouse and a straight narrow linen skirt and low heels, a little ladylike uniform, the kind of clothes she might have pulled from the closet in her dreams. 
The response on the street to Ms. Collins is always worth noting, since few people can approach her stylization in both grooming and dress. 
In this case, however, Ms. Collins was startled to find that "so many people stopped me on the street." The reason, she concluded, was that "there is this desire now for some kind of simple feminine uniform" to replace "the kind of aggressive, chaotic, androgyny" that characterized the spirit of capital fashion with a capital F. 
"The last thing anyone wants to see right now is camouflage or any kind of savagery expressed in clothes," Ms. Collins said earnestly. "Let's face it. You can't play at camouflage now. Either you're fighting for civilization or you're not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the terrorist attacks, Amy Fine Collins found clothes at home that she had long forgotten about, including a pair of Manolo Blahnik velvet boots.; For Marian Rivman, Sept. 11 took her heart out of the shopping mode. But research into her closets revealed that she had an ample supply of clothes.; Gay Feldman took her cache of jewelry out of a safe deposit box and brought it home.; "If I have to run, I want my diamond ring and anything else that I can turn into liquid assets," Ms. Feldman said.; Barbara Heizer, next to Warhol's portrait of her, hardly ever shops anymore. She will make do with clothes like the Chanel blouse she is wearing. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (85%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (75%); READY TO WEAR (75%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); FASHION DESIGN (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%); HIJACKING (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) APPAREL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); WOMEN 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%) TREBAY, GUY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



726 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Today's News Quiz

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
So, class, time for a news quiz: Name the second-largest Muslim community in the world. Iran? Wrong. Pakistan? Wrong. Saudi Arabia? Wrong. Time's up -- you lose.
 Answer: India. That's right: India, with nearly 150 million Muslims, is believed to have more Muslim citizens than Pakistan or Bangladesh, and is second only to Indonesia. Which brings up another question that I've been asking here in New Delhi: Why is it you don't hear about Indian Muslims -- who are a minority in this vast Hindu-dominated land -- blaming America for all their problems or wanting to fly suicide planes into the Indian Parliament? 
 Answer: Multi-ethnic, pluralistic, free-market democracy. To be sure, Indian Muslims have their frustrations, and have squared off over the years in violent clashes with Hindus, as has every other minority in India. But they live in a noisy, messy democracy, where opportunities and a political voice are open to them, and that makes a huge difference.
"I'll give you a quiz question: Which is the only large Muslim community to enjoy sustained democracy for the last 50 years? The Muslims of India," remarked M. J. Akbar, the Muslim editor of Asian Age, a national Indian English-language daily funded by non-Muslim Indians. "I am not going to exaggerate Muslim good fortune in India. There are tensions, economic discrimination and provocations, like the destruction of the mosque at Ayodhya. But the fact is, the Indian Constitution is secular and provides a real opportunity for the economic advancement of any community that can offer talent. That's why a growing Muslim middle class here is moving up and, generally, doesn't manifest the strands of deep anger you find in many non-democratic Muslim states." 
In other words, for all the talk about Islam and Islamic rage, the real issue is: Islam in what context? Where Islam is imbedded in authoritarian societies it tends to become the vehicle of angry protest, because religion and the mosque are the only places people can organize against autocratic leaders. And when those leaders are seen as being propped up by America, America also becomes the target of Muslim rage.
But where Islam is imbedded in a pluralistic, democratic society, it thrives like any other religion. Two of India's presidents have been Muslims; a Muslim woman sits on India's supreme court. The architect of India's missile program, A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, is a Muslim. Indian Muslims, including women, have been governors of many Indian states, and the wealthiest man in India, the info-tech whiz Azim Premji, is a Muslim. The other day the Indian Muslim film star and parliamentarian Shabana Azmi lashed out at the imam of New Delhi's biggest mosque. She criticized him for putting Islam in a bad light and suggested he go join the Taliban in Kandahar. In a democracy, liberal Muslims, particularly women, are not afraid to take on rigid mullahs. 
Followed Bangladesh lately? It has almost as many Muslims as Pakistan. Over the last 10 years, though, without the world noticing, Bangladesh has had three democratic transfers of power, in two of which -- are you ready? -- Muslim women were elected prime ministers. Result: All the economic and social indicators in Bangladesh have been pointing upward lately, and Bangladeshis are not preoccupied hating America. Meanwhile in Pakistan, trapped in the circle of bin Ladenism -- military dictatorship, poverty and anti-modernist Islamic schools, all reinforcing each other -- the social indicators are all pointing down and hostility to America is rife.
Hello? Hello? There's a message here: It's democracy, stupid! Those who argue that we needn't press for democracy in Arab-Muslim states, and can rely on repressive regimes, have it all wrong. If we cut off every other avenue for non-revolutionary social change, pressure for change will burst out anyway -- as Muslim rage and anti-Americanism.
If America wants to break the bin Laden circles across the Arab-Muslim world, then, "it needs to find role models that are succeeding as pluralistic, democratic, modernizing societies, like India -- which is constantly being challenged by religious extremists of all hues -- and support them," argues Raja Mohan, strategic affairs editor of The Hindu newspaper. 
So true. For Muslim societies to achieve their full potential today, democracy may not be sufficient, but it sure is necessary. And we, and they, fool ourselves to think otherwise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (75%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%) ISLAM; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) INDIA; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



727 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Search Goes On for 2 U.S. Sailors Missing After Ship Sinks Off Iraq 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Navy ships and helicopters continued to search today for two American sailors missing in the northern Persian Gulf after an overloaded cargo ship they had boarded for inspection sank in rough seas, the Pentagon said.
 The sailors were part of an eight-member team from the destroyer Peterson who had boarded the ship on Sunday after American officials became suspicious that it was carrying oil from Iraq in violation of United Nations sanctions. 
 Pentagon officials said the team discovered tanks carrying 1,700 metric tons of oil hidden under bags of grain. The ship, the Samra, which was registered in the United Arab Emirates, was so overloaded that it was already riding dangerously low in the water when the Peterson first spotted it, officials said. 
The Samra, which was at anchor at the time not far from the Iraqi coastline, sank in high seas just 30 minutes after the sailors boarded it, the officials said.
There were no sounds of explosions or gunfire on the Samra before it began to sink, indicating that the crew had not attempted to resist the inspection, officials said.
SH-60 Sea Hawk helicopters dispatched from the Peterson were able to rescue 6 American sailors and 10 members of the Samra's 14-member Iraqi crew not long after the ship went under. The body of one Iraqi sailor was also recovered, while three remaining crew members from the Samra were missing tonight.
Today, the Peterson and its two helicopters, which are part of the Fifth Fleet based in Bahrain, were joined in the search by two other American warships, four additional helicopters and a PC-3 Orion patrol plane. In addition, an American supply ship and an Australian warship, the Sydney, were involved.
The missing American sailors were identified as Petty Officer First Class Vincent E. Parker, 38, of Preston, Miss., and Petty Officer Third Class Benjamin Alan Johnson, 21, of Rochester.
Cmdr. Thomas Van Leunen, a spokesman for the Navy, said the search would continue through the night. "The water temperature there is high, so the chances of their surviving are better," he said.
The United Nations imposed sanctions on Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990, allowing Iraq to export crude oil only under United Nations supervision. This year, American ships and other navies involved in enforcing the sanctions have inspected 99 tankers suspected of smuggling oil from Iraq.
The Security Council has said the sanctions would be removed only when Iraq had eliminated all its weapons of mass destruction. Iraq insists that it has done that and has refused to allow United Nations weapons inspectors back into the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); NAVIES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SMUGGLING (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); MARINE TANKERS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%) ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: PARKER, VINCENT E (PETTY OFFICER FIRST CLASS); JOHNSON, BENJAMIN ALAN (PETTY OFFICER THIRD CLASS); DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (67%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



728 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Selling to the Disabled Can Mean More ThanAds 

BYLINE:  By MARTIN KROSSEL

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

 BODY:
Carmen Jones, the founder of the Solutions Marketing Group here, is a dynamo in a wheelchair. Her mission, which she pursues at conventions and businesses across the country, is to help companies develop and carry out marketing strategies aimed at people with disabilities.
 But despite the growing awareness of an undertapped market that has led more than 100 major American corporations to include people with disabilities in advertising campaigns, Mrs. Jones emphasizes that reaching the disabled requires more than simply including them in ads. 
 "Companies need to tell consumers with disabilities that they are valued consumers," she said, "that they are not an inconvenience, that they will have ease in accessing services, and where there is staff it will be skilled in addressing their special needs."
To address such issues, another consulting firm founded by people with disabilities, W. C. Duke Associates, trains employees in service industries in the etiquette of dealing with customers with disabilities.
Bill Duke, who founded the firm with his wife, Cheryl, and their son, Paul, has limited hearing; Paul, 32, has muscular dystrophy and has used a wheelchair since he was a teenager.
The Dukes' Opening Doors training program encourages employees to acknowledge the disability of customers and never to be afraid to ask how they can assist them. But they are trained to follow instructions exactly, and never to insist on providing assistance that the customer does not request. Employees are also shown how to interact with individuals with specific disabilities. For instance, they are taught how to describe the arrangement of items on a table for a person who has limited sight.
The founders of both consulting companies say their goal is to benefit their business clients as much as serving the cause of people with disabilities. Mrs. Jones says she became convinced that her firm would be a success when she discovered that no ad agency had a department for devising market strategies aimed at consumers with disabilities.
"I didn't want to be in a position two or three years down the road," she said, "where an existing company went into a business in which I knew that I could have been successful."
Mrs. Jones and the Dukes say that having a disability themselves gives them additional credibility as consultants. People with disabilities, they say, are the "experts" because they know what it is like to encounter barriers.
Still, determining whether companies will generate extra profits from going out of their way to reach people with disabilities is hard to quantify. Evidence of increased sales is only anecdotal.
McDonald's, one of the first companies to show deaf people in its commercials, contends that the ads have brought more people with a variety of disabilities into its restaurants. Similarly, Microsoft says it has sold more copies of Windows 98 by showing its accessibility features in television ads.
Citing census data, Mrs. Jones and the Dukes and argue that people with disabilities constitute a huge market of some 50 million Americans. But that figure comes from an especially broad definition of disability. A more realistic estimate may be just under 10 million, which is the number of people over 15 that the Census Bureau says are disabled enough that they need help with activities of daily living.
Moreover, even with the decade-old Americans With Disabilities Act, the unemployment rate for working-age people with disabilities remains chronically high and their incomes below average.
Nonetheless, the Solutions Marketing Group and W. C. Duke both say they are having little trouble attracting business from Fortune 500 companies. Their clients seem willing to pay consultants to draw up marketing strategies that may yield, at least in the short run, only a small financial return.
But there is a longer-run strategy at work. The incidence of disability cuts across all socioeconomic groups, and many people with disabilities are supported by their families and have sizable disposable incomes. Furthermore, with the aging of the population, more people who have had successful careers are acquiring disabilities later in life, when they have accumulated enough wealth to become heavy users of products and services designed for people with disabilities.
Mrs. Duke acknowledges that her consulting services are often sought out by companies that are under the threat of lawsuit for not complying with the disability law. But that threat only acts as a catalyst for many of her clients, she says. Many, convinced that being more inclusive is "doing the right thing," eventually go far beyond the legal requirements in adapting their services for use by people with disabilities.
While it has been accused of allowing harassment against a disabled employee to take place, Darden Restaurants provides menus in Braille at its Olive Garden and Red Lobster outlets. "We want to be able to serve any customer that comes in to our restaurants," said Linda Gonzalez, the company's manager of diversity and community affairs.
Others have embraced the "universal design" movement, which tries to make products usable by as many people as possible. Many features originally designed for users with disabilities end up helping nondisabled users, too.
Talking caller-ID units were initially designed for the blind but they can help anyone who is away from a telephone display. Similarly, closed captioning was designed for deaf television viewers. It can also be used by others when the sound of the television is an annoyance or where it would be drowned out by surrounding noises.
Mrs. Duke says that the family business was driven at first more by a sense of mission than any confidence that they would eventually make money. "Our relatives thought that we were crazy to do this," she said.
The Dukes, former public-school teachers, cashed out part of their pensions to start their venture, which began with a Virginia travel guide for people with disabilities. Today, the business, started in 1988, generates enough revenue for the Dukes to be selective in acquiring clients.
And their Opening Doors program, Mrs. Duke said, has now established itself as a known brand among consumers with disabilities, who seek out companies that have put their staff through the training.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmen Jones, the founder of the Solutions Marketing Group, at her home -- which also contains her office -- in Alexandria, Va. She helps companies market to people with disabilities. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING STRATEGY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); DEAFNESS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); GENETIC DISEASES (52%); CENSUS (50%) HANDICAPPED 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



729 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
StarMedia Will RestateIts Financial Results

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
StarMedia Network, once the bright light of Latin America's Internet industry, appears to be in serious trouble.
 The company said yesterday that it planned to restate its financial results for the first half of this year and all of last year after an internal investigation uncovered about $10 million of revenue improperly reported by subsidiaries in Mexico. 
 The disclosure by StarMedia, whose revenue last year totaled $60 million, comes after it was criticized for other accounting practices, like the waiver of $10.4 million of loans to top executives in the second quarter and the use of bartering to account for about a quarter of all sales. 
StarMedia's board also announced executive changes yesterday, ousting the company's founder, Fernando Espuelas, as chairman and replacing him with Susan Segal of J. P. Morgan Chase. Ms. Segal was instrumental in financing StarMedia, serving as a board member since July 1997. 
Mr. Espuelas had been replaced as chief executive in August by Enrique Narciso, a founder of PageCell International Holdings, a company StarMedia acquired in 1999. The board also forced the resignation of Steven J. Heller as chief financial officer and dismissed Justin Macedonia as general counsel.
The announcements illustrate StarMedia's evolution from a Wall Street darling into a cautionary example of the troubles investors from prosperous countries have had in exploiting the Internet's potential in developing countries. Trading in StarMedia's shares was halted yesterday at a price of 38 cents, down from a high of $70 in July 1999.
"The magnitude of the problems at StarMedia is impressive," said Lars Schonander, an equity strategist at ING Barings. "It makes me wonder whether there is any value left in the company."
Based in New York, StarMedia often portrayed itself to investors as a powerful first mover into markets like Brazil, Latin America's largest economy, where in the heady days of 1998 and 1999 the potential to profit from Internet-based services seemed boundless. 
But the company stumbled in its efforts to compete with Brazilian concerns like Universo Online, which more keenly gauged the needs of the Portuguese-speaking market. StarMedia's strategy of using the Internet to unite countries in Latin America began to stall. 
StarMedia, which now describes itself in its press releases as "the leading integrated Internet media and solutions company targeting Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking audiences," declined to elaborate on its announcements yesterday.
"We are not granting interviews until our accounting investigations are complete," a spokeswoman, Romi Schutzer, said.
StarMedia said in a statement that its inquiry had shown that two Mexican subsidiaries, AdNet S.A. and StarMedia Mexico S.A., had improperly recognized revenue from October 2000 to June 2001. It said its financial statements for those periods were not reliable.
StarMedia also said it had altered the terms of its agreement to acquire AdNet. Instead of paying for AdNet with company stock over a five-year period, StarMedia said it agreed earlier this month to issue eight million shares of its common stock to AdNet shareholders.
It is not clear how the company's investors will react to the irregularities that have been uncovered. StarMedia was provided a lifeline in May when BellSouth injected $25 million into the company in exchange for an 11 percent stake. 
Before BellSouth's investment, StarMedia had been mentioned as a possible acquisition target by companies like Terra Networks of Spain or Grupo Televisa, Mexico's largest broadcaster, but such deals never came to fruition.
Recently, StarMedia has focused on creating mobile Internet services for BellSouth, which owns wireless carriers in 11 Latin American countries. Roberto Peon, chief marketing officer for BellSouth International, said yesterday that he was pleased with StarMedia's work so far.
"Their wireless Internet activities have been really impressive," Mr. Peon said. "I don't have knowledge of their internal investigation, but what I do know of the company, of the work they're doing, it's great."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); ETHICS (63%); LAWYERS (51%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STARMEDIA NETWORK 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (75%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



730 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Market Speculation Arises On Rival Suitor for Conoco
A day after Conoco and Phillips Petroleum announced plans to merge, the markets were abuzz with speculation that another suitor might emerge to woo Conoco.
 Under the terms of the deal, Conoco shareholders will not receive a premium. Such news would typically drive down share prices. But Conoco shares rose nearly 7 percent on speculation that several larger oil companies might be interested in a takeover. Page C2. 

Phillips and Conoco went to great lengths to describe their combination as a merger of equals. News Analysis. C2.

F. A. O. Schwarz to Be Acquired
F. A. O. Schwarz and its fantasyland for 5-year-olds on Fifth Avenue are changing hands. The Right Start, a California-based children's retailer that recently bought the Zany Brainy toy-store chain, which was in bankruptcy proceedings, is acquiring the F. A. O. brand name and 23 of 41 stores for a package of stock and debt valued at about $55 million, but no cash. D4.

Owner of Currency Firm Indicted
An indictment accused the owner of a currency trading operation in the World Trade Center of fraud and conspiracy. He disappeared after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, as did $105 million of investors' money. C2.

StarMedia to Restate Its Earnings
StarMedia Network, once the star of Latin America's Internet industry, plans to restate its results for the first half of this year and all of last year after an internal inquiry uncovered about $10 million of revenue improperly reported by subsidiaries in Mexico. C7.

Japan Fears Competition With China
With China flexing its economic muscles, many Japanese fear that they are becoming a flabby middle-aged power with a political system unable to meet China's challenge. A3.

Loss Narrows at Toys 'R' Us
Toys "R" Us, the nation's largest toy store chain, said that its third-quarter loss narrowed as it sold more exclusive toys and attracted customers to remodeled stores. The loss narrowed to $44 million, or 22 cents a share, matching Wall Street expectations, compared with a loss of $65 million, or 32 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Shares of Toys "R" Us rose $1.02, or 4.5 percent, to $23.62. C8.

Starts of New Housing Drop 1.3%
Starts of new housing fell 1.3 percent in October, less than analysts had expected, suggesting that the home construction industry continued to buttress the economy. C6.

B.T. Wireless Unit Is Spun Off
British Telecommunications spun off its wireless unit into a company called mm02, which is seeking to avoid the mistakes made by its parent. World Business, Section W.

Air Canada Hindered by Dominance
For Robert Milton, the chief executive of Air Canada, the company's status as a flag carrier and one of the few homegrown companies to carve out a global presence has been more hindrance than help. World Business, Section W.

No Progress Seen in Oil Talks
The energy ministers of Russia and Mexico met to discuss whether to cut oil production to help prop up prices, but the talks made no apparent progress. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,976.46 up 109.47Nasdaq composite -- 1,934.42 up 35.8410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.78% down 0.07The euro -- $0.8797 down 0.0046The dollar -- 123.30 yen up 0.48 Graphs: "TODAY" shows balance of trade and leading indicators since March. Graph tracks Toys 'R' Us share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSPIRACY (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (70%); TERRORISM (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); HOUSING STARTS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); INTERNET & WWW (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (94%); ZANY BRAINY INC (56%); TOYS 'R' US INC (53%); AIR CANADA (50%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (94%); AC.A (TSX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (94%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (56%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



731 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
A Rebound In Search Of a Reason

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Stocks are strutting their stuff again, up 20 percent or more from their September lows. By conventional measures then, the bull market is back. But does it have stamina?
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 9,976.46 yesterday, up 21 percent from its low of Sept. 21. The Nasdaq composite index, rich in rebounding technology stocks, has risen 36 percent in that time, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has gained 19 percent. 
 Still, this impressive two-month move seems driven less by data signaling an economic recovery than by investors' rush to be on board for the next bull run. Missing a chance to recoup some of their losses in stocks is a much scarier proposition to investors than the prospect of weakness next year in the United States economy and corporate earnings.
Having bid up stocks recently, investors may find anything less than a strong recovery disappointing for their portfolios. "I'm concerned that a big turnaround in the economy is already built into many stocks' prices," said David Eidelman, a money manager at Eidelman, Finger & Harris in St. Louis. "I think there's a good chance that even if the economy does turn around, many companies will have earnings power at the next peak that is well below what they made in the past." 
In recent weeks, investors have been gaining confidence that an economic rebound is drawing near and that stocks are the place to be. Echoing Kipling's "If," market strategists have drummed into investors' heads since the beginning of 2001 that gains will come to those who disregard the turmoil around them -- keeping their heads -- and focus on better times ahead.
Even though better times are not yet evident, the belief in them is showing up in stock prices. Many stars are in fact now aligned for investors. David Sowerby, chief market analyst at Loomis, Sayles & Company, said: "Inflation is less than 2 percent, the Fed has conducted the most aggressive easing I have ever known in my life, we have tax cuts, more stocks are attractively priced than they were six months ago, and we have one of the strongest financial systems in the history of this planet. All are giving me a green light today." 
Even the long dormant market for new stock issues is showing signs of life, as several new stocks posted initial pops in price in the last weeks.
It is not surprising that investors are eager to jump on the stock market train fearing it will leave the station without them. Even though share prices have clawed their way back from deeply depressed levels the last two months, the broad market indexes remain down for the year. The S.& P., for example, has lost 12.8 percent of its value in 2001, while the Nasdaq remains almost 22 percent lower than where it began the year.
Besides, autumn recoveries have become common. During 1998 and 1999, stocks bounced off low levels in October, rising 20 percent and 15 percent, respectively, by the end of the year. The pattern was broken in 2000.
James Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, is of two minds on the recent rally. "Part of me says, how often does an equity investor have everybody from the Bank of Japan, the United States Congress, the European Central Bank and the Fed working day and night to get equities up?" he asked. "That's a hugely bullish thing to bet against. I don't disagree we're going to get a bounce and the recession will end, but I wonder how strong the recovery will be."
Mr. Paulsen is particularly concerned about the financial position of American consumers, many of whom have binged on borrowing and now face unemployment. Even though mortgage rates fell a few weeks ago, they have backed up again, reducing the potential savings from refinancings for many consumers.
Nevertheless, stocks of many cyclical companies that investors turn to when an economic downturn is ending have already been bid up to prices that may not be sustainable even if the recovery were to begin tomorrow. Shares in the retail sector and among basic-materials companies have outperformed other groups this year, Mr. Paulsen said. "There is some risk of downside if growth only comes in at 2 percent next year, rather than the 3 percent or more that people are expecting," he said. 
Even the bulls acknowledge that the recent rally is probably unsustainable. "The fundamentals are soundly in place for investors," Mr. Sowerby said. "But the stock market can't be this easy. It's not a one-way ticket to wealth. Rather, it's a couple of steps forward and one step back. But at least in this environment, it's more steps forward than back." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); NEW ISSUES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TRENDS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



732 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Worrisome News for an Oil Company Town 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: BARTLESVILLE, Okla., Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The economy of this prairie town of 35,000 has been closely intertwined with the fortunes of Phillips Petroleum since the company was founded in 1917 by the brothers Frank and L. E. Phillips.
 Worries about the future of Bartlesville have sprung up after Phillips said on Sunday that it would merge with Conoco and move its corporate offices to Conoco's hometown, Houston. 
 "This could be a bad deal for Bartlesville," said Chuck Tate, an owner of a tire store. "I hope not, but I'm expecting the worst."
Phillips employs 2,400 people in Bartlesville and has donated millions of dollars to local charities. Because of Phillips, Bartlesville has an unusual number of cultural institutions for a city of its size. The four buildings that make up the Phillips headquarters complex can be seen for miles. 
Still, Bartlesville has experienced upheaval with Phillips in the past. During the 1980's collapse in oil prices, the city sought to diversify its economy, luring new businesses and factories. At its peak, Phillips employed 9,000 locally, half the city's work force.
James J. Mulva, the Phillips chairman and chief executive, said the company would maintain a significant presence in Bartlesville and would keep its charitable commitments. The company recently gave a $3.6 million building designed by Frank Lloyd Wright to a local museum.
Also affected by the proposed merger will be Ponca City, 70 miles due west, where Conoco's refinery and offices employ 1,900 of the town's 26,000 people.
"The merger of these oil giants is unavoidable to ensure the survival in Oklahoma of both companies," Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma, a Republican, said in a statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MERGERS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (95%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO; CONOCO INC 

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (95%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%) SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: JAMES MULVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) BARTLESVILLE (OKLA); HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



733 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5529 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PLEDGES PUSH FOR MIDEAST PEACE 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said today that the Bush administration -- after ten months of hesitation -- would send high-level envoys immediately to the Middle East to seek a cease-fire, restart negotiations and help set the terms for the creation of a "viable" Palestinian state and a more secure Israel.
 His long-awaited speech represented the administration's first significant foray into the Middle East peace process. It did not lay out a specific framework for a peace settlement, but it did make clear that the United States now intends to exercise leadership in the area. 
 In a major address at the University of Louisville, Secretary Powell said the United States was "ready to contribute actively" to an observer force that could eventually monitor and verify a peace accord between Israelis and Palestinians. 
The presence of such a force has been a longstanding Palestinian demand, but Secretary Powell gave no timetable for any American contribution to it. 
He admonished the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, to "arrest, prosecute and punish the perpetrators of terrorist acts" against Israelis. At the same time, he told Israel's leaders that the building of Jewish settlements in Palestinian areas "must stop" because it "cripples chances for real peace and security."
Israel, he said, "must be willing to end its occupation" and "accept a viable Palestinian state in which Palestinians can determine their own future on their own land, and live in dignity and security."
In a broader message to the Arab world, Secretary Powell said Arab leaders "must make unmistakably clear through their own actions their acceptance of Israel and their commitment to negotiated settlement."
The reaction to the speech was generally positive. The senior Arab diplomat in Washington, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the ambassador of Saudi Arabia, called the speech "positive" and "balanced." 
Prince Bandar was among those Muslim dignitaries invited to the White House this evening by President Bush, who was the host at an evening meal to break the Muslim fast after sundown, and the Saudi official saw the event as another sign that Mr. Bush was seeking to balance his approach to the Arab-Israeli dispute. 
Prince Bandar said he was "optimistic" that the Bush administration's new commitment "could be the beginning of something more important than we realize at the moment," but he expressed doubt that Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, wanted to see Mr. Arafat succeed in bringing Palestinian violence under control as that would bring a Palestinian state closer to reality.
Howard Kohr, head of the largest pro-Israeli lobbying organization, the American-Israeli Political Action Committee, said the most important point Secretary Powell made was the "sequence" of events leading to peace, meaning that Palestinian violence must first cease. 
"You have violence and terror and incitement and that must end," he said, "and at that point in time, you can move into the political talks. I think that's what he signaled to the parties."
Palestinians, Secretary Powell said, "must eliminate any doubt, once and for all, that they accept the legitimacy of Israel as a Jewish state. They must make clear that their objective is a Palestinian state alongside Israel, not in place of Israel, and which takes full account of Israel's security needs."
Secretary Powell avoided giving details of what form a peace should take, despite pressure from some aides, and he did not indicate what leverage the United States was prepared to exert over Mr. Sharon or Mr. Arafat to end 14 months of violence that has undermined the peace process that President Bill Clinton had treated as a higher priority.
Still, Secretary Powell said, the Bush administration was jumping in to "prod" and "push." A number of experts said it is premature for the Bush administration to lay out suggestions for the shape of a final settlement when it is not even certain that either side sees the other as a sincere negotiating partner. 
Nonetheless, Secretary Powell announced that Mr. Sharon and Mr. Arafat both have recreated "senior-level" committees to work on implementing a cease-fire with former American commander of forces in the Middle East, Anthony Zinni, and William Burns, the assistant secretary of state for the Middle East. Both men were appointed as special envoys responsible for the Bush administration's peace efforts in the Middle East.
He said their "immediate mission" is "helping the parties achieve a durable cease-fire" and to then follow steps for a cooling-off period and confidence-building measures recommended by former Senator George Mitchell six months ago.
Those measures could set the stage for a return to the negotiating table to set the borders for a Palestinian state, define how Jerusalem would serve as a capital for both states and settle the claims of Palestinian refugees. 
The greatest challenge for these American envoys appeared to be whether the American entry could sufficiently reduce the level of violence to meet the condition that Mr. Sharon has insisted on: seven days of calm before any talks on returning to the negotiating table could resume. Over the weekend, Mr. Sharon again insisted that such a period precede any return to talks on security with the Palestinians. 
"We will do all we can to help the process along," Secretary Powell said. "We will push and prod. We will present ideas." But, in the end, he added, "both sides will need to face up to some plain truths about where this process is heading as they turn to the challenges of negotiating permanent status issues."
In a pointed message to Mr. Arafat, Secretary Powell said: "The Palestinian leadership must make a 100 percent effort to end violence and end terror. There must be real results, not just words and declarations." More pointedly, he added, "The Palestinian leadership must arrest, prosecute and punish the perpetrators of terrorist acts."
To the Israelis, he said: "Palestinians need security, as well. Too many innocent Palestinians, including children, have been killed or wounded. This too must stop." 
The delivery of this address, which was prepared and then postponed when the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 put off the United Nations General Assembly session, reverses an early Bush administration approach to the Middle East.
Secretary Powell, in recent statements, has indicated that the administration has absorbed the lesson that without American involvement, violence prevails. Mr. Bush came to office determined to avoid a muscular American role like the one pursued first by his father after the Persian Gulf war and then by Mr. Clinton. 
In 1991, former President Bush convened the Madrid peace conference in fulfillment of a commitment to Arab nations who joined the international coalition that ejected Iraqi forces from Kuwait.
The Madrid conference, and the Oslo accords that followed in 1993, significantly advanced the negotiating terms for a final settlement on a homeland for Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied territories in the West Bank and Gaza.
But the momentum of the Madrid and Oslo peace initiatives foundered for many reasons, including government changes in Israel and a rising tide of extremism among Palestinians.
"The key thing is that this speech resolves the debate in this administration of whether the United States can have a foreign policy without engagement in the Middle East peace process," said Stephen P. Cohen, a scholar at the Israel Policy Forum.
A former American ambassador to Israel, Samuel Lewis, said Secretary Powell conveyed a sense of "great activism and determination." He said that after months of trying to manage the Arab-Israeli dispute with telephone calls and statements from Washington, "appointing a senior person who really stays out there and keeps their feet to the fire and gets them back to table" was a tangible step forward.
In the address, Secretary Powell sought to capitalize on the administration's initial success in driving the Taliban from power in Afghanistan. One message from the Sept. 11 terrorist assault on the United States, he said, was that, "American leadership in foreign affairs has never been more important."
.95.) An engaging and airy history of the first mass-produced artificial dye and how it ignited a 19th-century revolution in applied science.
MILOSZ'S A B C'S. By Czeslaw Milosz. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Dozens of short, associatively shaped prose pieces, alphabetically arranged; they add up to a kind of memoir-essay on the 20th century by a distinguished poet who lived through most of it.
THE MONEY AND THE POWER: The Making of Las Vegas and Its Hold on America, 1947-2000. By Sally Denton and Roger Morris. (Knopf, $26.95.) Las Vegas arraigned for drug trafficking, money laundering and politician corrupting, with quite a lot of evidence but little sense of why people have fun there.
MORAL FREEDOM: The Impossible Idea That Defines the Way We Live Now. By Alan Wolfe. (Norton, $24.95.) Approaching his subjects with empathy and respect, a sociologist surveys a broad cross section of Americans on their ethical beliefs and finds that we set high standards of conduct but tend to eschew moral mandates.
NEXT: The Future Just Happened. By Michael Lewis. (Norton, $23.95.) Linked essays about the Internet as the universal solvent of the fundamental social order, best when the author personalizes change by exhibiting teenage prodigies who have outrun their elders and betters on the Information Highway. 
Nickel and dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America. By Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Holt, $23.) The author joined the ranks of the working poor, taking jobs as waitress, scrubwoman and "Wal-Martian" to test the vaunted ideal of work as a ticket out of poverty; the ticket, she discovered, turns out to be for an unplanned round trip.
THE NOONDAY DEMON: An Atlas of Depression. By Andrew Solomon. (Scribner, $28.) An exhaustively researched, provocative and moving survey of depression, engagingly rendered by a man brave enough to say that he loves his depression because it helped him find his soul.
NO PEACE, NO HONOR: Nixon, Kissinger, and Betrayal in Vietnam. By Larry Berman. (Free Press, $27.50.) Using recently available archival material, the author builds a case that Richard Nixon dealt duplicitously with South Vietnam, encouraging it to refuse to negotiate with North Vietnam, then betraying it by Henry Kissinger's secret deals with the North. 
ON HER OWN GROUND: The Life and Times of Madam C. J. Walker. By A'Lelia Bundles. (Lisa Drew/Scribner, $30.) A biography that is also a social history of its subject's times (1867-1919); born to poverty, Walker made a fortune with a product that straightened hair and became a bold philanthropist and advocate of women's independence as well as an exemplar of black enterprise.
ON THE WING: A Young American Abroad. By Nora Sayre. (Counterpoint, $25.) The late journalist and critic recalls her days in London in the 1950's with the likes of Cyril Connolly, Arthur Koestler and Tyrone Power.
PRESIDENT NIXON: Alone in the White House. By Richard Reeves. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The author's deconstructions of Richard Nixon's fevered jottings on long yellow pads, radiating both the nobility and the madness of his own most intimate intentions; moods long familiar become fresh when Reeves reads them against unexpected contexts.
THE PRICE OF MOTHERHOOD: Why the Most Important Job in the World Is Still the Least Valued. By Ann Crittenden. (Metropolitan/Holt, $25.) An economic journalist argues that the enormous costs of motherhood raise issues of social policy that have not been addressed by American society.
RACE AND REUNION: The Civil War in American Memory. By David W. Blight. (Harvard University, $29.95.) A historian recounts how the meaning of the Civil War was debated and constructed between Appomattox and "The Birth of a Nation."
REFLECTIONS ON EXILE: And Other Essays. By Edward W. Said. (Harvard University, $35.) Written between 1967 and the present by a literary critic and advocate for the Palestinian cause, these pieces often deal with the self-deceiving fictions of the colonizers about the people they oppress; others deplore some fashionable critical theories as unengaged with real life and history.
REMEMBER ME TO HARLEM: The Letters of Langston Hughes and Carl Van Vechten, 1925-1964. Edited by Emily Bernard. (Knopf, $30.) The record of an ironic, ribald, frequently poignant interracial friendship between a poet who interpreted the black experience and a novelist who did his best to promote Hughes and the Harlem Renaissance.
RIVER TOWN: Two Years on the Yangtze. By Peter Hessler. (HarperCollins, $26.) A finely drawn memoir whose author taught English in the city of Fuling, China, soon to be deluged by the completion of a nearby dam; the strangeness of the Chinese to him, and his to them, are offered in the best tradition of the old-fashioned travel book.
ROMANCING: The Life and Work of Henry Green. By Jeremy Treglown. (Random House, $26.95.) A generous, acute and above all not too long biography of the rich, publicity-shy, pseudonymous English novelist whose work ("Living," "Loving," "Party Going") was deservedly well known 50 years ago.
ROMANCING THE FOLK: Public Memory & American Folk Music. By Benjamin Filene. (University of North Carolina, cloth, $49.95; paper, $19.95.) A fascinating history of the shifting notions of what constitutes American folk music.
ROOSEVELT'S SECRET WAR: FDR and World War II Espionage. By Joseph E. Persico. (Random House, $35.) A deeply informed account, from the Allied viewpoint, of the clandestine side of World War II, complicated by the difficulty of establishing what, at any given time, the spymasters and their putative bosses knew and when they knew it.
SAFE AREA GORAZDE. By Joe Sacco. (Fantagraphics Books, $28.95.) Using a comic-book format, the author, a cartoonist, has created a work that combines a rare insight into the human experience of the war in Bosnia with a nuanced political and historical understanding of the conflict.
THE SANTA FE TRAIL: Its History, Legends, and Lore. By David Dary. (Knopf, $30.) The absorbing story of the 900-mile trade route to the Southwest, told by the veteran historian of the West.
SAVAGE BEAUTY: The Life of Edna St. Vincent Millay. By Nancy Milford. (Random House, $29.95.) Millay's sometimes brilliant lyrics have been overlooked because of the hokum and manipulation all around them; this elegant biography detoxifies the poet's life.
SEABISCUIT: An American Legend. By Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $24.95.) A racing journalist's charming biography of the homely, slow-developing, greathearted horse whose heroic career as a pretelevision celebrity culminated in the 1938 match race with the Triple Crown winner War Admiral.
SELDOM DISAPPOINTED: A Memoir. By Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $26.) A disarming survey of his life by the author of the amazingly well-informed Jim Chee-Joe Leaphorn Navajo crime novels, who is not a Navajo, was for many years a newspaperman and lost most of a foot and the sight of one eye in World War II.
THE SEVEN SINS OF MEMORY: How the Mind Forgets and Remembers. By Daniel L. Schacter. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A Harvard psychologist details the science behind the different forms of memory and forgetting.
THE SEVENTIES: The Great Shift in American Culture, Society, and Politics. By Bruce J. Schulman. (Free Press, $26.) So how did the revolutionary experimentation of the 60's turn into the Ronald Reagan 80's? This author shrewdly proposes that "doing my own thing" was the common attitude, turning Republican when it infiltrated the Sun Belt.
THE SHADOW OF THE SUN. By Ryszard Kapuscinski. (Knopf, $25.) A collection of 29 pieces representing 40 years of reporting from Africa by Poland's most famous foreign correspondent, whose reports on tyrannies abroad (Angola, Ethiopia, Iran) gave Poland's Communist rulers the fantods.
SIDETRACKS: Explorations of a Romantic Biographer. By Richard Holmes. (Pantheon, $30.) Essays by the least earthbound of biographers on subjects like the literary productivity of Romney Marsh and the youthful despair from which the author was rescued by the yet more despairing Chatterton.
SIMONE WEIL. By Francine du Plessix Gray. (Lipper/Viking, $19.95.) A highly competent and sometimes -- with justice -- deeply annoyed biography of the brilliant, headstrong, nobly ridiculous French Jew who felt the presence of Christ in her 20's and died, perhaps of anorexia, at 34. 
THE STARDUST LOUNGE: Stories From a Boy's Adolescence. By Deborah Digges. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) A poet's account of her troubled younger son, whose anger and wildness deeply rattled his enlightened mother's confidence; he grew up at last, but whether his mother's coping efforts helped is not clear. 
STET: A Memoir. By Diana Athill. (Grove, $24.) The doyenne of English book editors recalls her years at Andre Deutsch, whose authors included V. S. Naipaul, Brian Moore, Mordecai Richler, Jean Rhys and Molly Keane, and how changing economic (and cultural) conditions injured quality book publishing.
THE TAPIR'S MORNING BATH: Mysteries of the Tropical Rain Forest and the Scientists Who Are Trying to Solve Them. By Elizabeth Royte. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A year's exacting work at the Smithsonian's research center in Panama, rendered by a smart writer who has no fear of complex situations.
THE THIRD REICH: A New History. By Michael Burleigh. (Hill & Wang, $40.) An interpretation of Nazism that sees it as both a totalitarian system and a political religion.
THIS COLD HEAVEN: Seven Seasons in Greenland. By Gretel Ehrlich. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A remarkable and affectionate portrait of the Inuit Greenlanders during a time of unsettling transition, when a subsistence culture passed on by tradition is threatened by global warming, snowmobiles and the choice between formal education and unemployment.
TIGER'S EYE: A Memoir. By Inga Clendinnen. (Scribner, $24.) An intensive report from the land of the very ill, by an Australian historian of anthropological bent who investigates the occupancy of her body by herself and her disease, and who saves herself from violation by imaginative identification with a tiger. 
TIP O'NEILL: And the Democratic Century. By John Aloysius Farrell. (Little, Brown, $29.95.) The life and career of the Massachusetts Democrat who never lost faith in the proposition that government could cure what ailed society, and engineered a successful resistance to President Ronald Reagan's effort to sink the New Deal.
TREASON BY THE BOOK. By Jonathan D. Spence. (Viking, $24.95.) A lively narrative examination of a thought-control episode in 18th-century China, where the emperor and his philosopher-bureaucrats (much like their successors today) sought to eliminate every vestige of incorrect thinking, by fiat if possible, by death if not.
A TRIAL BY JURY. By D. Graham Burnett. (Knopf, $21.) The foreman of a contentious criminal jury on a tawdry New York homicide case last year found the justice system a mare's-nest of incompetence and confusion, and his own experience more intense than he had bargained for; in the end, a certain common sense prevailed. 
ULTIMATE JOURNEY: Retracing the Path of an Ancient Buddhist Monk Who Crossed Asia in Search of Enlightenment. By Richard Bernstein. (Knopf, $26.) The author, a book critic for The Times, did much the same things in the same places; it was not easy, but it brought unexpected rewards.
AN UNEXPECTED LIGHT: Travels in Afghanistan. By Jason Elliot. (Picador USA, $30.) The author explores past and present, at considerable personal risk, in the Afghan resistance to the Soviets and in the collapse that preceded the Taliban rule.
VENICE: LION CITY. The Religion of Empire. By Garry Wills. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) A cultural historian's guide to the Most Serene Republic through the arts, beliefs and ideologies that sustained it in its days as a medium-great power, able to withstand the Turks in the Mediterranean and rule much of Italy.
WAR IN A TIME OF PEACE: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals. By David Halberstam. (Scribner, $28.) Reporting on the presidents of the 1990's and their foreign policy, Halberstam finds reluctance to deal with foreign issues and a power structure made of people touched in some way by the Vietnam War.
WASHINGTON. By Meg Greenfield. (PublicAffairs, $26.) The veteran journalist, who died in 1999, gives a dour, unblinkered look at the nation's capital.
WAS THIS MAN A GENIUS? Talks With Andy Kaufman. By Julie Hecht. (Random House, $23.95.) Hecht, a writer of short stories inveigled into a nonfiction assignment, spent a year interviewing the cult comedian of the late 1970's, or trying to. The product shows an annoying but sympathetic character, as so many of his fans suspected already.
WHERE DEAD VOICES GATHER. By Nick Tosches. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A search for the facts about Emmett Miller, a blackface minstrel of the 1920's and 30's whom Tosches calls "the strangest and most stunning of stylists ever to record"; and the author's meditations on creativity and originality, provoked by his incomplete quest. 
WIDE AS THE WATERS: The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired. By Benson Bobrick. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) An ambitious and largely successful attempt to demonstrate that the English translations of the Bible provided the spiritual resource for the creation of popular government.
THE WILD BLUE: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany. By Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) A colorful account of the very young men who bombed the Third Reich from bases in Italy.
WORD FREAK: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players. By Stefan Fatsis. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A tour of a universe that must be real, because no one could have made it up: the very top players in the Scrabble subculture, who live only for the game. 

CHILDREN'S BOOKS
AMBER WAS BRAVE, ESSIE WAS SMART: The Story of Amber and Essie Told Here in Poems and Pictures. By Vera B. Williams. (Greenwillow/HarperCollins, $15.95.) (Ages 7 and up) A story of sisters who live all alone, hidden in plain sight among the adults who care for them. Latchkey children, the girls are plucky and resilient. The book is a timely reminder about the generosity and strength of children's spirits. 
BALONEY (HENRY P.). By Jon Scieszka. Illustrated by Lane Smith. (Viking, $15.99.) (Ages 5 and up) Henry, a young green alien, invents an excuse for being late for school that is peppered with words from more than a dozen languages and takes him into outer space. The retro-stylish and wacky illustrations keep pace with the text. 
FAIR WEATHER. By Richard Peck. (Dial, $16.99.) (Ages 10 and up) A rich relative asks the Beckett family to the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893. It's part family story, part tall tale, awed and affectionate. 
FOUR IN ALL. By Nina Payne. Illustrated by Adam Payne. (Front Street, $15.95.) (All ages) In a poem using only 56 common nouns, the illustrator has found a story that grows in complexity with each rereading as a little girl sets off on a dream journey. 
A GIFT FROM ZEUS: Sixteen Favorite Myths. By Jeanne Steig. Illustrated by William Steig. (Joanna Cotler/Harper-Collins, $17.95.) (All ages) The stories are woven together into one seamless tale in which the prose is fresh and charming, the occasional verses inspired and the illustrations spectacular. 
LOVE THAT DOG. By Sharon Creech. (Joanna Cotler/HarperCollins, $14.95.) (Ages 8 to 12) The free-verse journal of a reluctant boy whose teacher, Miss Stretchberry, is introducing poetry to her class. She uses some classic texts and he comments on them. As a novel it is more of a haiku than a sonnet and yet it creates a substantial, fully imagined world. 
MARTIN'S BIG WORDS: The Life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. By Doreen Rappaport. Illustrated by Bryan Collier. (Jump at the Sun/Hyperion, $15.99.) (All ages) Key phrases from King's early life have been used as markers in telling a simplified story of his life, illustrated as a magisterial drama. The effect is reminiscent of the work of both Jacob Lawrence and Romaire Bearden. 
OLIVIA SAVES THE CIRCUS. Written and illustrated by Ian Falconer. (Anne Schwartz/Atheneum, $16.) (Ages 3 to 7) The plump piglet tells her classmates how she saved the circus. It's an elaborate tale involving amazing skill and strenuous exercise, and she says it's "pretty all true." 
A STEP FROM HEAVEN. By An Na. (Front Street, $15.95.) (Ages 10 and up) A first novel that is a familiar immigrant story with Korean details but universal resonances; its central character is Young Ju, who watches her parents' troubled marriage disintegrate even as the children adapt to America. 
WOODY GUTHRIE: Poet of the People. Written and illustrated 
by Bonnie Christensen. (Knopf, $16.95.) (All ages) This beautifully illustrated account of the folk singer and songwriter concentrates on the Great Depression and celebrates the song "This Land Is Your Land" as both an anthem and a call to action. 

MYSTERIES
BAD NEWS. By Donald E. Westlake. (Mysterious/Warner, $23.95.) This priceless crime caper takes the disaster-prone burglar John Dortmunder to upstate New York, where he and his gang of goofs team up with some out-of-state con artists on an outlandish scheme to bamboozle two Indian tribes out of a piece of their casinos. 
EXILE. By Denise Mina. (Carroll & Graf, $25.) The beaten-down women at a Glasgow shelter are used to taking abuse from the drunken men in their lives; but when one of the women ventures outside the shelter and is murdered, a young social worker is drawn deeper into the domestic war zone where the cycles of violence begin -- and never seem to end. 
THE FINAL COUNTRY. By James Crumley. (Mysterious/Warner, $24.95.) "I'm old, babe, but not dead," boasts Milo Milodragovitch, a reprobate P.I. from Wyoming who finds himself in Texas hill country on a payback mission, mixing it up with an exuberant cast of double-dealing men and two-faced women in artfully choreographed bar brawls and gunfights. 
HOSTAGE. By Robert Crais. (Doubleday, $24.95.) In this criminally entertaining illustration of chaos theory, three young punks invade the home of "Mr. Smith," a nerdy accountant who turns out to have enough underworld juice to bring out local sheriffs, California state troopers, the F.B.I. and the mob for a suburban standoff that spirals out of control. 
THE HUNTSMAN. By Whitney Terrell. (Viking, $25.95.) The dangerous friendship between an angry black youth and the rebellious daughter of a Kansas City judge leads to murder in this lyrical first novel, whose fluid time frame and shifting narrative voice offer an intimate look at the complex kinships of people who define themselves by their regional ties. 
IN A STRANGE CITY. By Laura Lippman. (Morrow, $24.) The Baltimore sleuth Tess Monaghan is on hand when the mysterious figure who visits the grave of Edgar Allan Poe each year on his birthday is joined by a second Poe Toaster who is murdered on the spot, necessitating a witty survey of local legends surrounding the father of the American mystery story. 
MYSTIC RIVER. By Dennis Lehane. (Morrow, $25.) In this wrenching study of how a crime in the neighborhood can bring down the entire community, a savage murder in a working-class section of Boston forces three former friends to return to an earlier crime and relive the exact moment when the world of their boyhood lost its innocence. 
OPEN SEASON. By C. J. Box. (Putnam, $23.95.) In this sinewy first novel set in the Bighorn Mountains, the author articulates his concern for endangered lives and liberties in the laconic voice of Joe Pickett, the new game warden of Twelve Sleep County, Wyo., and a stand-up guy who isn't intimidated by poachers, survivalists, or his own preternaturally smart child. 
OVER TUMBLED GRAVES. By Jess Walter. (Regan Books/HarperCollins, $25.) If every city gets the serial killer it deserves, Spokane, Wash., is stuck with a creep who preys on prostitutes who ply their trade along the river -- a lonely place that attracts the kind of people who have always lived on the edge of the water, condemned to dead-end lives. 
THE SHAPE OF SNAKES. By Minette Walters. (Putnam, $24.95.) Haunted by guilty memories of her role in the murder of a black woman with Tourette's syndrome, a British schoolteacher uses newspaper clips, police reports and personal letters to narrate the cruel event and to force her biased neighbors to acknowledge their own complicity.

SCIENCE FICTION
THE CHRONOLITHS. By Robert Charles Wilson. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $22.95.) In novels like "The Divide" and "The Harvest," Wilson has produced one of the most impressive bodies of work in contemporary science fiction. "The Chronoliths," in which a man tries to turn his life around in a world stunned by the arrival of colossal monuments from the future, is among his best. 
DANCE OF KNIVES. By Donna McMahon. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $25.95.) This ambitious first novel, set in a 22nd- century Vancouver much altered by an unspecified "Collapse," brings together a naive young woman and a deadly, brain-damaged human "tool" in a wrenching twist on the old tale of Beauty and the Beast.
THE GHOST SISTER. By Liz Williams. (Spectra/Bantam, paper, $5.99.) An anthropological puzzle story in the mode of Ursula K. Le Guin. Explorers from a neatly tamed "Gaian" world discover that communing with nature can mean something quite different on a planet whose inhabitants, under the influence of what they call the "bloodmind," become predators in rapturous rapport with their environment.
THE LAST HOT TIME. By John M. Ford. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $22.95.) In an America greatly changed by the re-emergence of magic, a young paramedic falls in with a Chicagoland gang of humans and elves headed by the enigmatic Mr. Patrise. Although the narrative takes the shape of myth, Ford keeps the focus on a love story as touching as it is surprising.
LOOK TO WINDWARD. By Iain M. Banks. (Pocket Books, $23.95.) Set in a far-future, multi-species galaxy rife with hope and despair, this sophisticated space opera deals artfully with the appeal of terrorism and the necessary dangers of a free society. 
NEKROPOLIS. By Maureen F. McHugh. (HarperCollins, $24.) A slow-paced, tightly focused novel about the search for love in all the wrong places. Hariba, a 26-year old woman who chooses the life of a brain-controlled servant over freedom, falls for an artificially bred humanoid who, though programmed to please all true humans, can only feel close to his own kind.
PAVANE. By Keith Roberts. (Del Rey Impact, paper, $12.95.) What better choice to begin a new series of quality reprints than this classic alternative-history novel, first published in 1968 and set in a 20th-century England that reverted to Roman Catholicism after the assassination of Queen Elizabeth I? Roberts evokes this imaginary time and place with a persuasive attention to detail and an irresistible narrative sweep.
RETURN TO THE WHORL. By Gene Wolfe. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $25.95.) A weighty addition to Wolfe's far-future epic about faith and its consequences. To understand it, readers should be acquainted with at least some of the earlier volumes in his Long Sun series. As fine a writer as science fiction has produced, Wolfe demands a lot from his readers, but here, as always, it's worth meeting him more than halfway.
SHIP OF FOOLS. By Richard Paul Russo. (Ace, paper, $12.95.) A heady blend of religious allegory and first-contact puzzle story. Having lost sight of their original mission, the inhabitants of a self-sufficient starship break into bitterly opposed factions. An encounter with an alien vessel forces everyone to confront the age-old question: how can evil exist in a divinely ordered universe?
TALES FROM EARTHSEA (Harcourt, $24) and THE OTHER WIND (Harcourt, $25). By Ursula K. Le Guin. In these two books, one of science fiction's most acclaimed writers returns to Earthsea, a world of islands where magic is as familiar, and dangerous, as science is in our world. The five short tales, all new, deepen the portrait of Earthsea that Le Guin sketched out in earlier novels. In "The Other Wind," a new novel, Le Guin takes a hardheaded look at the efforts of Earthsea's contentious peoples to live together.
VENTUS. By Karl Schroeder. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $27.95.) Nothing is what it seems on Ventus, a planet that has been transformed into an Earth-like "paradise" by nanotechnology. On a world where everything is, in some sense, alive, why are humans barely tolerated? While more-than-human powers contend for control of Ventus, a handful of humans, often working at cross-purposes, try to avert a tragedy of cosmic proportions.
WILD SEED. By Octavia E. Butler. (Warner Aspect, paper, $13.95.) First published in 1980, this mesmerizing tale combines traditions of African and African-American storytelling with a keen understanding of biological and evolutionary imperatives. An important work of modern science fiction by the only science fiction writer to win a MacArthur Foundation "genius" grant. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 20 about a speech on the Middle East by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell misstated the name of a pro-Israel lobbying group whose executive director, Howard Kohr, commented. It is the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, not the American-Israeli Political Action Committee.
The listing of the year's notable books on Page 63 of the Book Review today classifies "Trieste and the Meaning of Nowhere," by Jan Morris, incorrectly. It is nonfiction, not fiction. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell outlined a new American commitment to bringing peace to the Middle East yesterday in Kentucky. (Associated Press)(pg. A10) Drawings (Edward Sorel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (74%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISMTerms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (56%) ;AMERICAN-ISRAELI POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE 

PERSON: BANDAR BIN SULTAN (PRINCE); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; TYLER, PATRICK E; KOHR, HOWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA; 

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001



734 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Airline Cutbacks With an Agenda; 
Preserving Hub Networks Is the Carriers' Motivation

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
Schedule cuts by the major airlines since Sept. 11 have reduced passenger capacity at big airports by as much as a third and increased the biggest carriers' dominance at many of those airports, according to a computer analysis for The New York Times.
 Half or more of nonstop flights have been dropped between Boston and Orlando, Fla.; Cleveland and Pittsburgh; Burbank, Calif., and San Francisco; and La Guardia in New York and Richmond, Va., for example. The major airlines have reduced their capacity on domestic nonstops from Kennedy Airport by a third -- far beyond the systemwide reductions of 15 to 20 percent that the carriers announced. 
 With domestic air travel still down by 25 percent, industry experts say that the significance of the cuts cannot be measured simply in inconvenience to travelers; people who want to travel can generally get where they want to go, though not always at the time they want to get there. 
Rather, they say, the impact will be felt when travel revives. 
Then, airlines facing less competition at their major hubs may find it easier to raise fares and may feel less pressure to improve the poor service that was a focus of lawmakers' and consumers' concern a year or two ago. 
"We need to make sure we don't lose sight of the endgame," said David A. Banmiller, the chief executive of Sun Country Airlines, which recently stopped flying two routes where it offered the only alternative to Northwest Airlines. "That is to make sure that the industry has competition." 
The analysis, which compared domestic airlines' schedules at major airports on Sept. 11 and Nov. 13, found that competitors pulled back sharply from airports already dominated by one of the major carriers. 
For example, at Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, where the hometown carrier, Delta Air Lines, is the kingpin, other carriers eliminated 25 percent of their nonstop flights. Delta, by contrast, trimmed its service from Atlanta by just 8.1 percent.
Generally, the big airlines have been quicker to eliminate nonstop flights between cities where they do not operate hubs than to trim back service from their hubs.
For example, American Airlines -- which has hubs in Chicago, Dallas and Miami -- dropped its four daily flights between Los Angeles and Oakland and five daily flights between Los Angeles and Phoenix. United Airlines -- with hubs in Chicago, Denver and San Francisco -- dropped daily service from Atlanta and La Guardia Airport to Miami. American is a unit of AMR; United a unit of UAL.
At O'Hare in Chicago, United and American sought to protect their hubs, trimming service nearly in lock step. United eliminated 16 percent of its flights from O'Hare; American 19 percent of its service. Similarly, US Airways reduced its schedule overall by 15 percent, but limited the cuts at its Charlotte, N.C.; Philadelphia; and Pittsburgh hubs to the single digits.
All the major airlines cut deeply into nonstop service to leisure destinations from airports where they do not maintain hubs.
Delta, for example, canceled service to Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., and Orlando from Chicago. The logic was that many of those passengers, who are paying relatively low fares, could be served by transferring through Atlanta, said Doug Blissit, a Delta vice president. 
With the big decline in visitors to New York since the terrorist attacks, the region's airports took some of the deepest cuts. In addition to the service reductions at Kennedy, the major carriers cut passenger capacity at Newark by 22 percent and at La Guardia by 20 percent.
Virtually no airports lost all commercial airline service as a result of the cuts. At some smaller airports -- like Westchester County Airport in White Plains, Buffalo Niagara International and Kansas City International -- competition declined on some routes or jet service was converted to turboprops. 
While the major airlines were careful to maintain the reach of their networks, expanding service back to pre-Sept. 11 levels and beyond may be slow going. The carriers have retired hundreds of older airplanes and delayed deliveries of new aircraft. 
The industry crisis, meantime, has threatened the already shaky health of smaller carriers like Sun Country that traditionally impose competitive discipline on the majors, challenging them to keep prices low and standards high.
"Our existence levels the playing field and saves the Minneapolis consumer a couple of hundred million dollars a year," Mr. Banmiller of Sun Country said.
Given the magnitude of the drop in passengers after Sept. 11, the airlines had little choice about making cuts. Traffic dropped 40 percent, and the only way for carriers to stem financial losses was to eliminate flights and lay off workers.
For the major airlines, the logic of the cuts was dictated by the hub-and-spoke networks they have established in the two decades since the industry was deregulated in the late 1970's. Flights from an airline's hubs tend to be more profitable, because passengers can be flown in from far and wide, make connections and proceed to their ultimate destination. 
Flights between nonhub airports are usually less profitable, because they are harder to fill.
And so the major airlines pulled back much as they had in the last industry downturn, in the early 1990's, said Michael Kavney, an executive at the Kiehl Hendrickson Group, an aviation consulting firm in Minneapolis that analyzed the flight data for The Times. "You retrench into your profit centers," he explained, "and those are your hubs."
Some smaller carriers that specialize in low fares -- like Sun Country and Spirit Airlines -- also cut back. Midway Airlines, which operated a hub in Raleigh-Durham, N.C., halted service entirely. These cuts in some cases reduced competition that in normal times serves to impose some price discipline on the major carriers. 
Since Sept. 11, for example, Sun Country, which is based in Minneapolis and serves 30 cities, has cut capacity 26 percent. It suspended its twice-daily service from Minneapolis to both Seattle and Boston, leaving Northwest -- which dominates Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport -- with no competition on those routes. 
The exception to the pattern was Southwest Airlines, the nation's largest low-fare carrier. Southwest has barely changed its schedule since September. But many of the major airlines have cut flights on routes where they compete -- or, at least, used to compete -- directly with Southwest. 
On four routes, Southwest now has no competition. Between Columbus, Ohio, and Midway Airport in Chicago, America West Airlines eliminated its five daily flights, leaving Southwest with the only six daily nonstops. Cancellations by US Airways left Southwest with the only nonstop service between Baltimore and Midway, Orlando and Hartford.
On 24 other routes, competition against Southwest diminished. For example, between Los Angeles and Oakland, Southwest maintained 24 daily flights while United cut its schedule to five from eight and American canceled its four daily flights. 
Sun Country is still losing money and is now hunting for new investors. Under the federal bailout plan for the industry, Mr. Banmiller said, the airline is planning to seek a government guarantee for a loan of about $30 million. That plan, and a recent request by America West Airlines for a $400 million loan guarantee, will test whether the government bailout is used to preserve competition by propping up weak airlines or to bolster the strongest carriers by promoting consolidation.
Well-financed low-fare carriers like Southwest and New York-based JetBlue Airways have remained profitable since Sept. 11, while the major airlines bleed red ink. The stock market values Southwest alone as being worth $4 billion more than United, American, Delta, Northwest and Continental Airlines combined.
"When you see the market capitalization of Southwest and the profits that have been reported by JetBlue, the public policy concern should not be the lack of low-fare carriers in the domestic market," said Douglas M. Steenland, Northwest's president. 
Executives of the major airlines contend that too much is made of data showing their dominance of travel at their hubs. Glen Hauenstein, the senior vice president in charge of schedule and planning at Continental, said that most airport market share figures exaggerated concentration by including passengers using the hub simply to connect to another flight.
These passengers, he said, care little about where they transfer and often are simply choosing the airline that gave them the best price. Factor them out, Mr. Hauenstein added, and hub dominance drops sharply.
Nevertheless, in the mid-1990's, many start-up airlines accused the major carriers of using their dominant positions to drive start-ups out of business by undercutting the new airlines' fares and adding flights on competing routes until they quit.
In 1999, the Justice Department sued American Airlines, accusing it of driving competitors out of its Dallas-Fort Worth hub in the mid-1990's by cutting prices below cost. It was the first so-called predatory pricing case since the airlines were deregulated. A federal judge dismissed the case in April; the Justice Department is appealing.
Since Sept. 11, some carriers cut new routes that would have normally been given time to catch on with customers but instead became luxuries the airline could no longer afford.
For example, Continental had recently started flying six times a day between Boston and Westchester County Airport in White Plains, using a 37-seat regional jet. After Sept. 11, it cut back that service to three flights daily by one of its commuter partners, using a 19-seat turboprop.
"We usually give a new route a year to see if it can be profitable," Mr. Hauenstein said. "Six weeks into this service, we didn't really have time to make it work."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing the extent of airline service changes since Sept. 11 misstated the current number of scheduled nonstop flights by major airlines between Denver and Portland, Ore. It is 12 a day, down 50 percent since Sept. 11; the new number is not 16.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Still Flying, But Not as Much"There are fewer planes flying and fewer available seats now than were scheduled on Sept. 11. The service reductions have not been uniform, however. Airlines have been selective in their cuts, often preserving operations in markets they dominate. The less crowded skies Total number available seats and flights scheduled on Sept. 11 and Nov. 13.NOV. 13 -- 2.3 millionSEPT. 11 -- 2.7 millionNOV. 13 -- 22,940SEPT. 11 -- 26,913 And then there was oneOn some routes where there was competition before Sept. 11, weaker airlines have ceded the market to their stronger rivals. Boston-Minneapolis is one such market. A tale of two hubsAirlines minimized cuts at airports where they had dominant positions. In Atlanta, where Delta is by far the largest carrier, it continued to hold a huge lead over No. 2 AirTran and solidified its advantage after minor carriers made significant reductions. Atlanta HartsfieldAIRLINE: DeltaSEPT. 11: 934NOV. 13: 855PERCENT CHANGE: -8.1% AIRLINE: AirTranSEPT. 11: 148NOV. 13: 139PERCENT CHANGE: -6.1 AIRLINE: OthersSEPT. 11: 172NOV. 13: 129PERCENT CHANGE: -25.0 At Chicago O'Hare Airport, neither American nor United Airlines controls the market. They each cut about 100 flights while smaller airlines made deeper overall cuts on a percentage basis. Chicago O'Hare AIRLINE: AmericanSEPT. 11: 537NOV. 13: 434PERCENT CHANGE: -19.2% AIRLINE: UnitedSEPT. 11: 631NOV. 13: 529PERCENT CHANGE: -16.2 AIRLINE: OthersSEPT. 11: 206NOV. 13: 163PERCENT CHANGE: -20.9 (Source: Kiehl Hendrickson Group)(pg. C1) Chart: "After Sept. 11, Less Competition and Fewer Flights"The terrorist hijackings of Sept. 11 have had far-reaching effects on the airline industry and its passengers. Following are some of those changes. The figures are based on a computer analysis of scheduled domestic nonstop service on Sept. 11 and Nov. 13 by the Kiehl Hendrickson Group. The AirlinesPassenger traffic is down, so most airlines have cut back on their operations. Reductions in flights United AirlinesNOV. 13: 3,155SEPT. 11: 4,162PERCENT CHANGE: -24% American AirlinesNOV. 13: 2,932SEPT. 11: 3,646PERCENT CHANGE: -20 America West AirlinesNOV. 13: 697SEPT. 11: 866PERCENT CHANGE: -20 Northwest AirlinesNOV. 13: 2,148SEPT. 11: 2,632PERCENT CHANGE: -18 Alaska AirlinesNOV. 13: 870SEPT. 11: 1,051PERCENT CHANGE: -17 US AirwaysNOV. 13: 3,616SEPT. 11: 4,316PERCENT CHANGE: -16 Continental AirlinesNOV. 13: 1,959SEPT. 11: 2,311PERCENT CHANGE: -15 Trans World AirlinesNOV. 13: 878SEPT. 11: 990PERCENT CHANGE: -11 Delta Air LinesNOV. 13: 3,889SEPT. 11: 4,169PERCENT CHANGE: -7 Southwest AirlinesNOV. 13: 2,796SEPT. 11: 2,770PERCENT CHANGE: +1 Reductions in available seats, in thousands United AirlinesNOV. 13: 284SEPT. 11: 383PERCENT CHANGE: -26% America West AirlinesNOV. 13: 76SEPT. 11: 95PERCENT CHANGE: -20 American AirlinesNOV. 13: 301SEPT. 11: 368PERCENT CHANGE: -18 Northwest AirlinesNOV. 13: 214SEPT. 11: 258PERCENT CHANGE: -17 Alaska AirlinesNOV. 13: 76SEPT. 11: 90PERCENT CHANGE: -16 US AirwaysNOV. 13: 284SEPT. 11: 337PERCENT CHANGE: -16 Continental AirlinesNOV. 13: 172SEPT. 11: 201PERCENT CHANGE: -14 Trans World AirlinesNOV. 13: 99SEPT. 11: 112PERCENT CHANGE: -11 Delta Air LinesNOV. 13: 423SEPT. 11: 468PERCENT CHANGE: -10 Southwest AirlinesNOV. 13: 374SEPT. 11: 371PERCENT CHANGE: +1 Preserving Some HubsIn most cases, the airlines have tried to minimize cuts at the airports that serve as their hubs. Service through hubs is more profitable for the airlines, so they seek to maintain those operations. Continental: NewarkAUG.30: 359NOV. 2: 292PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -18.66% Continental: ClevelandAUG.30: 230NOV. 2: 194PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -15.65% Continental: HoustonAUG.30: 528NOV. 2: 467PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -11.55% Continental: SystemwideAUG.30: 2,550NOV. 2: 2,118PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -16.94% Delta: AtlantaAUG.30: 934NOV. 2: 855PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -8.46% Delta: Salt Lake CityAUG.30: 291NOV. 2: 279PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -4.12% Delta: CincinnatiAUG.30: 492NOV. 2: 479PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -2.64% Delta: DallasAUG.30: 188NOV. 2: 185PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -1.60% Delta: SystemwideAUG.30: 4,464NOV. 2: 4,064PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -8.96 US Airways: PittsburghAUG.30: 521NOV. 2: 480PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -7.87% US Airways: Charlotte, N.C.AUG.30: 507NOV. 2: 484PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -4.54% US Airways: PhiladelphiaAUG.30: 403NOV. 2: 378PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -6.20% US Airways: SystemwideAUG.30: 4,220NOV. 2: 3,576PERCENT CHANGE IN NUMBER OF FLIGHTS: -15.26% Cuts in ServiceNo route has lost service altogether, but many have experienced severe reductions in the available number of flights and seats. Routes with the greatest percentage decline in number of flights* Boston/White PlainsSEPT. 11: 32NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -68.8% Boston/Long IslandSEPT. 11: 26NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -61.5 Buffalo/New York La GuardiaSEPT. 11: 20NOV. 13: 8PERCENT CHANGE: -60.0 Eugene, Ore./Seattle/TacomaSEPT. 11: 24NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -58.3 Burbank, Calif./San FranciscoSEPT. 11: 24NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -58.3 Bakersfield, Calif./Los AngelesSEPT. 11: 28NOV. 13: 12PERCENT CHANGE: -57.1 Seattle/Tacoma/Yakima, Wash.SEPT. 11: 28NOV. 13: 12PERCENT CHANGE: -57.1 Boston/Orlando, Fla.SEPT. 11: 22NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -54.5 Bellingham, Wash./Seattle/TacomaSEPT. 11: 30NOV. 13: 14PERCENT CHANGE: -53.3 Boston/Burlington, Vt.SEPT. 11: 28NOV. 13: 14PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 New York J.F.K./Las VegasSEPT. 11: 24NOV. 13: 12PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 Cleveland/PittsburghSEPT. 11: 20NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 New York La Guardia/Manchester, N.H.SEPT. 11: 20NOV. 13: 10PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 New York La Guardia/Richmond, Va.SEPT. 11: 32NOV. 13: 16PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 Denver/Portland, Ore.SEPT. 11: 24NOV. 13: 16PERCENT CHANGE: -50.0 Bucking the TrendOne airline, Southwest, has left its service almost entirely unchanged. On some routes it has emerged as the dominant carrier and on others it has gained a monopoly after its competition dropped service altogether. *Based on domestic routes with nonstop service and at least 10 flights a day.Flights to and from Ronald Reagan National Airport are excluded because service has not returned to normal. (Source: Kiehl Hendrickson Group)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (74%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (72%); TACOMA, WA, USA (67%); YAKIMA, WA, USA (67%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



735 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Nobody-Wants-to-Travel Guides; 
Worldly Bookstore Workers Serving Fewer Adventurers

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Arnold Greenberg is not gloating.
 He is a prideful man and a collector, knowledgeable in his field and eager to expound, charmingly disdainful of know-nothing retail clerks. On his side of The Complete Traveller Bookstore on Madison Avenue at 35th Street, he has recruited others like him, middle-aged men making second careers of their familiarity with exotic places and books about them. 
 By the absolute nearest yardstick, these men are doing well. For the first year ever, sales on Mr. Greenberg's side of the store could surpass those on the other side, where his wife, Harriet, sells modern travel guides. With the store free of customers one day last week, Mr. Greenberg leaned back against eight shelves of Baedeker volumes published in the 1800's, part of a collection of 7,500 books of various vintages. The collection is worth about $1 million, by his estimate. 
Though his pride is deep, Mr. Greenberg stopped short of denying the obvious. "I think this is probably, right now, as bad an investment as you can have," he said.
Sales are down 40 percent in Mr. Greenberg's half of the store, which last year generated about 40 percent of The Complete Traveller's total revenues. For Mrs. Greenberg, business is even worse. Sales of modern travel guides have dropped 75 percent to 80 percent from last year at this time.
The store was battered but not beaten by the growth of big-chain bookstores that squeezed small, independent stores like this one. It stayed viable as detailed travel information proliferated on the Web. But since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, The Complete Traveller is closer than it has ever been to going out of business.
The word "complete" in the name of the store really refers to a limited sort of completeness. The Greenbergs have travel books, and they have old travel books. With the travel business stalled by widespread fear of flying, they have found their inventory woefully undiversified. If there is such a thing as a Nobody-Wants-to-Travel-and-We-Sell-Travel-Books insurance policy, The Complete Traveller Bookstore has neglected to purchase one.
The store has been profitable for many of the 17 years the Greenbergs have owned it outright, but it does not seem that this will be one of those years. For four hours stretched over two recent afternoons, not a single customer walked through the door. 
Of course, the World Trade Center attacks devastated families and psyches immediately. But the economic ripples of the disaster are just beginning to imperil -- and in some cases topple -- longstanding New York business institutions, many of them representative of the unique way New Yorkers live. The Complete Traveller can be seen as a proxy for the city's sense of adventure.
"I have a lot of pride," Mr. Greenberg said. "I'm not just going to close the door. But we let a full-time and a part-time person go."
That was two-thirds of the staff.
Mrs. Greenberg said she was shifting her inventory to feature more coffee table books and volumes of travel writing for the holidays. If business does not pick up by Christmas, she said, "We'll really have to talk about it. You can't just stick your head in the sand."
The Greenbergs' discussions about the slump all come back to the same main thing.
"We get people asking us these questions," Mrs. Greenberg said. " 'Do you think it's safe to go to Boston?' "
To the adventurous sort of workers and customers who gather at The Complete Traveller, this is a stupid question. Edward Kerman, who works part-time in the store and has years of travel experience from his job in the municipal bond business, explained. "People who work here have been places," he said. Though it was not clear why a man like Mr. Kerman would ask for travel advice at a chain bookstore, Mr. Kerman says he grows infuriated when "you go in somewhere, and some 9-year-old says, 'Where's that?' "
To worldly New Yorkers, of course, Mr. Kerman's sort of cordial snobbishness is endearing. Catering to the impatient cosmopolite or nerd was the whole point of starting Mr. Greenberg's half of the store, the side with the antiquarian books.
The Greenbergs, moonlighting travel writers themselves, have owned the store since 1984, when they bought out a partner, George Blagowidow, who founded the store in 1978. Their best year ever was 1988, when they generated $900,000 in revenues.
"I expected the next year I was going to make $1 million, so I was very happy," Mrs. Greenberg said. "That was when the Barnes & Nobles and Borders started to open, and they started to cut into our sales."
In 1992, the Greenbergs rented the space next door, and The Complete Traveller began selling vintage books. The stock includes old guides commissioned by the Works Progress Administration that sell for around $150 and rare books that cost as much as $2,000. For the first few years, the modern books generated 90 percent of sales.
But Mrs. Greenberg's store was in for more fierce competition.
"When Amazon opened, we really took a hit on that, because they were discounting," Mrs. Greenberg said. And recreational travelers no longer needed books when travel information became widely available online.
The business never did have a million-dollar year, but by this summer, "the thrill of Amazon.com was over, business was coming back up," she said.
The terrorist attacks ended that, for the Greenbergs and for others. For example, Peter Balis, national account manager for Hungry Minds, Inc., said sales of the Frommer's travel guides he distributes to stores across the country, including some big chains, fell 50 percent immediately after, and have come back only for guides to certain areas, including Las Vegas, Walt Disney World and Hawaii. Sales of a guide to Italy, usually one of his most popular books, are still down 30 percent.
People in the business think, or hope, that there are other factors. Mr. Kerman said consumer spending was a part of the problem, as was the store's proximity to the Empire State Building, which some customers may consider a prime target for terrorists. Penelope Christopher, a clerk at Traveler's Choice on Wooster Street, which sells travel goods as well as books and serves as a travel agency, said that being downtown was hurting business.
Even Ms. Christopher's personal thoughts did not bode well for the business. "I'd be a lot more nervous now if I was getting on a plane," she said. "I even think about it just taking the subway." 
The hardy sort of travelers frequenting the Greenbergs' store have faith that even those less accomplished will return to the air.
"It's not like people are going to get brave, but they'll get tired of living this way," said Bill Marsano, a writer of stories about travel and spirits and a regular customer of The Complete Traveller. For the Greenbergs, he added, that nonbravery may return too late.
"This is their area," he said. "Barnes & Noble will survive this. They'll sell more home exercise tapes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnold and Harriet Greenberg, the owners, hope that business picks up by Christmas. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); With many travelers now reluctant to fly, stores like The Complete Traveller Bookstore have been struggling. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MEN (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); LITERATURE (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); TERRORISM (69%); HIJACKING (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (57%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

ORGANIZATION: ;COMPLETE TRAVELLER BOOKSTORE (NYC) 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL; GREENBERG, ARNOLD; GREENBERG, HARRIET 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



736 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Travel Volume Looks Steady, but Americans Are Staying Close to the Ground 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Mike Norwood, a freshman at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., never intended to begin the Thanksgiving holiday with his parents in Washington as early as Tuesday. He had wanted to travel today.
 But when he tried booking a train from Boston to Washington, he was told that all the trains were sold out, forcing him to leave a day early. 
 "I thought about flying," Mr. Norwood said. "But then my parents were uncomfortable with the latest plane crash and everything. I think they felt this would be safer." 
With the long Thanksgiving weekend approaching, Americans are traveling again, scrambling to join family and friends in distant places.
Evidence suggests that they are scrambling in almost in the same numbers -- at least on the ground -- as last year. That is a surprising development, travel industry officials said, given the convulsions caused by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the war in Afghanistan, the falling economy, rising unemployment and the added jolt last week of an American Airlines jet crash in Queens.
A survey by AAA, the former American Automobile Association, found that 34.6 million Americans planned to travel at least 50 miles from home for Thanksgiving, a drop of 6 percent from the 36.8 million of last year. Most of the decline is from a drop in air travel. Travel by car, bus and train remains relatively strong.
Industry officials said a decision by so many Americans to travel displayed a triumph of the spirit in setting aside fears of attacks and accidents in favor of spending more time with family and friends.
"One thing we're finding is that going to war makes people feel good," said Richard Copland, president and chief executive of the American Society of Travel Agents, an industry organization. "There's a sense that we're accomplishing something. That, combined with the new airline security bill signed in Congress, is helping offset the fear factor and helping show the great resiliency of the American people."
Although most of the largest airlines have reduced schedules 20 percent, air passengers this week, especially those flying on Wednesday and Sunday, two of the heaviest travel days of the year, are still quite likely to encounter circumstances that are already familiar: crowded planes, long lines to reach them, tighter security checks and stricter rules for carry-on luggage.
A spokesman for United Airlines, Joe Hopkins, said that the company was operating 23 percent fewer flights than this week a year ago but that the average load was about the same, 80 percent. A spokesman for American Airlines, Marty Heires, said American was operating 20 percent fewer flights. He declined to say at what load. 
Many of the largest airports said as many as a one-fourth fewer passengers would pass through their terminals this holiday season. 
Some airports are looking for ways to make the experience more enjoyable.
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport announced today that 200 volunteers dressed in "Holiday Helper" T-shirts would assist travelers and that new rocking chairs would be available for weary passengers. 
At San Francisco International Airport, officials have reduced parking fees and offered travelers two hours of free parking if they spend $20 in the gift shops or restaurants. 
Travel by car remains the overwhelmingly preferred mode of holiday transportation. About 87 percent of travelers are expected to take the car, the highest percentage AAA ever found in a survey and a slight drop, 1.6 percent, compared with the number of Thanksgiving motorists last year.
Officials at AAA said falling gasoline prices and the fear of flying were luring people onto the highways and keeping the travel industry relatively buoyant.
"Falling gasoline prices were the catalyst that helped spark the 1991 travel recovery following the gulf war," Sandra Hughes, a vice president of AAA, said. "We believe lower gas prices will provide a similar catalyst in the coming months."
Amtrak officials said calls to their reservation centers all year had been running 10 percent ahead of 2000, a gain that has been at least sustained after the terrorist attacks. 
A spokeswoman in Washington, Karina Van Veen, said the railroad had taken twice as many reservations nationwide over the first two weeks of the month, compared with the same period last year.
Amtrak has added 75,000 seats for peak travel days, Tuesday through Sunday, including 2,240 on trains from Union Station in Chicago. An Amtrak spokesman in Chicago, Kevin Johnson, said some Midwestern routes had sold out, including all trains on Tuesday and Wednesday from Chicago to St. Louis and all trains on Tuesday from Chicago to Pontiac, Mich., a route popular with students at colleges and universities in Michigan.
Sunday trains are expected to be just as crowded, with Amtrak already reporting sellouts from Chicago to the cities of St. Louis; Carbondale, Ill.; Detroit; and Pontiac and Port Huron, Mich. 
"We're preparing for a record breaker," Mr. Johnson said.
Traveling by bus also appears to be more popular than it was last year. A spokeswoman for Greyhound, Kristin Parsley, said it was difficult to project the effects of Sept. 11 on ridership, because 95 percent of bus travelers buy tickets shortly before departure.
Since the attacks, Ms. Parsley said, Greyhound has had an increase in advanced bookings and in the number of travelers buying seats for trips of 1,000 miles and longer. 
As a result, she said, Greyhound expects more riders than last Thanksgiving, when 800,000 passengers traveled from the Wednesday before to the Monday after.
Whatever the mode of travel, many passengers seem resigned to make the best of it.
Naomi Usher, 67, of San Antonio, a retired child care worker, was traveling through Houston today on her way to spend Thanksgiving with her sister in nearby Texas City. 
"Normally," Ms. Usher said, "I would have taken the car or the plane. But since what happened, I'm taking the bus."
It was not the hijackings that persuaded her but the crash last week.
"I just didn't want them to not to check those planes," Ms. Usher said, before vowing that her uneasiness would soon disappear.
"It's just this one time," she said of her first bus ride in 26 years. "The next time I come down here, I'll ride the plane. It was too soon after."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pete Gutierrez, left, waiting at Union Station in Chicago for a Los Angeles train. Amtrak has added 2,240 seats from there for peak travel days. A passenger at South Station in Boston, above, headed for his train. Over all, the system is adding 75,000 seats. (Christopher Pfuhl for The New York Times); (Scott Olson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAINS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; THANKSGIVING DAY 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (82%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



737 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Telecommunications:Mobile Phone Sales Drop 

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 Mobile telephone sales throughout the world declined to 94.4 million during the third quarter of this year, a 10 percent decline compared with the period a year earlier, a market research firm said. The firm, Gartner Dataquest, which is based in San Jose, Calif., said the cellular phone industry had been affected by widespread economic downturns in regions where the growth of mobile phone use had been high, including Latin America and Europe. "Most important of all, has been the astonishingly lackluster performance of the Western European market," said Ben Wood, an analyst for mobile communications at Gartner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SALES & SELLING (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; SALES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%); COSTA RICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



738 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Internet: Net Incubator To Close 

BYLINE:  By Andrew Zipern (NYT) (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 A business incubator founded by Halsey Minor, who also founded CNET Networks, will shut down as soon as January and return the money that it has not invested to its financial backers. 
The company, 12 Entrepreneuring, which raised $137 million over the last 18 months, invested about $33 million in Internet services companies like iBuilding Inc. and Oxygen Software. Such so-called Internet incubators have fallen on hard times with the collapse of the Web economy. Based in San Francisco, 12 was started by Mr. Minor and Eric Greenberg, founder of the Net consultant Scient Inc. In early November, 12 laid off half its staff in a move to cut costs. Andrew Zipern (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); VENTURE CAPITAL (85%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (84%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: SCIENT INC (71%); CBS INTERACTIVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TWELVE ENTREPRENEURING 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%)

PERSON: MINOR, HALSEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



739 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Budgets Will Be Stretch for Giambi and for Bonds

BYLINE:  By BUSTER OLNEY

 BODY:
Jason Giambi's great-great-grandchildren will be financially secure after Giambi signs with the Yankees, Oakland or St. Louis in the days to come, and Barry Bonds may be able to afford a small nation after he lands a new deal, perhaps with the San Francisco Giants. But most of the 2001 class of free agents, who can begin signing contracts with new teams today, will find baseball's financial climate to be very cool.
 Even before contraction confusion and labor agreement concerns muddled the market, even before Philadelphia's Scott Rolen and Toronto's Carlos Delgado emerged as possible trade acquisitions, many teams had decided to take a conservative approach to spending this off-season, either freezing or cutting their budgets. Some executives believe this reflects larger concerns about the economy in a time when disposable incomes are threatened and a family trip to the ballpark could be much more problematic. Second-tier free agents like Juan Gonzalez and Johnny Damon could be hard pressed to get anything close to what they wanted. 
 The Mets, Cleveland, Los Angeles, Colorado, Anaheim, St. Louis and Arizona are among the large-market teams that appear intent on holding down salaries this off-season. "Almost every team we talked trade to in the last month is looking to reduce their salaries or deal away salaries," a high-ranking baseball official said yesterday. "It's amazing. You could probably count the number of teams on one hand who are going to be aggressive financially in this market."
The Yankees, for one. Having seen their offense sputter throughout the regular season before dying in the World Series, they appear fully devoted to signing Giambi, to a six- or seven-year deal for about $16 million to $17 million a year; the seventh year could be a point of contention in negotiations.
Giambi rejected a six-year, $91 million offer from Oakland last spring, after the Athletics refused to include a no-trade clause -- they recently relented on this -- and others in the organization are fearful that Giambi is ready to move on.
St. Louis might be the only other team involved in the Giambi bidding. But even with the money saved when Mark McGwire retired, the Cardinals' offer might be only half of the package dangled by the Yankees.
"His interest in the Yankees is very real," said Giambi's agent, Arn Tellem, who swiftly negotiated the Mike Mussina deal with the Yankees last year. "He loves the city of New York and the fans, and knows it's a wonderful place to play. We're hoping the Yankees are serious about him. We're excited about the bell ringing and we can now officially talk to teams."
If the Yankees sign Giambi, they will probably want him to share time at first base and designated hitter with the rookie Nick Johnson. Tellem indicated that Giambi would have no problem with this. "If he signs with the Yankees, he'll talk to Joe Torre about that," Tellem said, referring to the Yankees' manager.
George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, will probably try to move quickly because there does not appear to be any available player who fits the Yankees' needs as perfectly as Giambi.
If the Yankees do not sign Giambi, they will be left to choose from among players with more suspect track records -- second baseman Bret Boone, for example, who might re-sign with Seattle or land with the Boston Red Sox, or outfielder Moises Alou, who is apparently seeking a relatively modest deal of two or three years, executives said.
The Yankees would like to sign a right-handed reliever as a setup man and have been in contact with the agents for Jason Isringhausen and Steve Karsay. But it is highly likely that those two pitchers will get closer's money elsewhere -- Isringhausen with St. Louis or the Mets (if they trade Armando Benitez), and Karsay with Atlanta or Texas.
Bonds could re-sign with the Giants, but there is the possibility that they will decide not to meet his demands and use the available money for other players instead -- perhaps Alou and pitcher Jason Schmidt.
Gonzalez finished second in the American League with 140 runs batted in, but Cleveland is cutting payroll and declined a one-year, $14 million option on him. Gonzalez, 32, has a history of back trouble, and any team that signs him to a long-term deal may have great difficulty getting insurance on the contract, so Gonzalez may have trouble drawing suitors. If Gonzalez's demands are depressed by the market, then perhaps the Mets or Baltimore will get involved.
Chan Ho Park is probably the most attractive free-agent starter, a 28-year-old right-hander with powerful stuff. But he fell apart in the last couple of months of the season, fighting back trouble, and the fallout from last year's crop of free-agent pitchers may affect Park. A year later, the big-money signings of Colorado's Mike Hampton and Denny Neagle and the Dodgers' Darren Dreifort are all considered to be significant mistakes. The conventional wisdom around baseball is that the Rangers will bid heavily on Park, although General Manager John Hart has told others that his team's interest in Park is overstated.
Seattle pitcher Aaron Sele has proven that he can win in the regular season and that he has trouble against the Yankees; his postseason struggles may hurt his value. John Smoltz, the Atlanta veteran, may be wooed heavily by the Rangers.
Damon is considered to be a good player, but with Roger Cedeno and Kenny Lofton also available -- they are similar outfielders -- Damon could struggle to get a notable offer. The Orioles are expected to bid for Tino Martinez and Scott Brosius, who may get offers from the Yankees, as well, if the Yankees' other pursuits fall through.
The presence of other notable players available in trades will probably have an effect on the free-agent crop. Rolen, among the best third basemen in the majors, told the Phillies last week that he won't sign a long-term deal before becoming a free agent next fall, and the Phillies will probably explore trade possibilities. Rolen could draw strong interest from Seattle, Cincinnati and St. Louis. The Blue Jays will look to dangle Delgado but may have trouble finding suitable offers.
If the Yankees sign Giambi, their next course of action will be to acquire Florida's Cliff Floyd in a trade or perhaps to make a deal for Anaheim's Darin Erstad. Both Floyd and Erstad will be eligible for free agency after next year, in a winter that might have a much better climate for lucrative bidding than the cold months to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



740 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
FREY, DR. GEORGE F.

 BODY:
 FREY-Dr. George F. Age 81. A resident of Syosset, NY and a Professor Emeritus of CW Post College in Brookville, NY died on September 22, 2001 at St. 
Francis Hospital in Roslyn, NY. The cause was complications arising from emphysema. After serving four years in the US Army air corp during World War II, he received his degree from New York University in 1950. He went on to earn his MBA in Marketing and his PhD in Economics in 1959. He remained at NYU as a young professor and taught there for several years. He joined the Lionel D. Edie Co. in 1965 as a consultant and went on to become a Vice President and Senior Economist. During this time he traveled extensively as a consultant to many large corporations such as GE, Corning Glass and others. When the company was acquired by Merrill Lynch in 1975 he decided to return to his old love teaching. He joined the faculty of CW Post and served as teacher, researcher, writer and consultant to various businesses and periodicals including Time and Newsweek. His writings included "Current Heading in Marketing," "Marketing Channels", "Vocabulary for Marketing". Dr. Frey also served as a member of the Board of Directors of Bayside Federal Savings and Loan Association from 1975-1992, when the Bank was acquired by Northfork Savings Bank. Dr. Frey was born and raised in Bayside, NY, but lived most of his life in Syosset, NY. He loved boating, and was an ardent fisherman. He is survived by his wife Valerie, three children George Frey of Westchester, PA., Erica Shields, of Denver, Colorado and Priscilla Incorvaia of Syosset, NY as well as five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ARMIES (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); WRITERS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (57%) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BAYSIDE FEDERAL SAVINGS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: FREY, DR. GEORGE F. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



741 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Sees Possibility Of a New Suitor for Conoco 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
A day after Conoco and Phillips Petroleum announced plans to merge, creating an oil company with a market value of $35 billion, the stock markets were abuzz yesterday with speculation that another suitor might emerge to woo Conoco, the fourth-largest oil concern in the United States.
 Under the terms of the transaction with Phillips, which the companies are calling a merger of equals, Conoco shareholders would receive 0.4677 share of the new company for each share they now own -- which would not be a premium over Conoco's market value. 
 Such news would typically drive down the share price of a company involved in a merger. But Conoco closed at $25.98 yesterday, up $1.68, or 6.9 percent, stoked by investors' conviction that several larger concerns might also be interested in acquiring the company. (Phillips stock also rose, up $1.53, to 53.35.) Moreover, a counteroffer might well present less of an antitrust problem than the Phillips deal. 
At today's stock price, Conoco is worth more than under the merger terms, suggesting that investors think a higher offer could be coming.
"Conoco taking no premium for this deal is like throwing blood in the water: it will raise the sharks," said Frederick P. Leuffer, a senior oil analyst with Bear, Stearns. "What would happen if another company offered a premium?"
Analysts said possible contenders might include TotalFinaElf of France, BP, Royal Dutch/Shell and ChevronTexaco. Total's spokesman could not be reached, and ChevronTexaco declined to comment. Representatives of the other companies did not return calls.
Archie W. Dunham, Conoco's chairman and chief executive, flatly rejected the notion that the merger might not go ahead. "We're happily married and expect lots of children," he said, responding to a question about other suitors during a conference call with analysts yesterday.
But both Conoco and Phillips considered the possibility of an interloper when they were negotiating their deal, executives close to the companies said. Each hired three investment banks as advisers -- an unusually large number in a friendly deal -- partly to keep potential rivals from being able to hire them to make a hostile bid, the executives said.
The companies also agreed to require a $550 million breakup fee if one or the other backed out.
The merger, if it is completed, would create the largest retailer of gasoline in the United States. The combined company, to be known as ConocoPhillips, would have its headquarters in Houston. Based on its reserves, it would become the third-largest oil company in the United States and the sixth biggest worldwide.
Under the deal, Phillips shareholders would own 56.6 percent of the successor; Conoco shareholders would own 43.4 percent. Mr. Dunham would become chairman and James J. Mulva, the Phillips chairman and chief executive, would be president and chief executive. Each company would have eight seats on the new board.
They predicted that the new concern would increase oil and gas production by 4 percent a year, a slightly more ambitious target than the 2 to 3 percent gains other oil companies aim for.
After the last three years of mega-mergers -- during which Exxon bought Mobil for $80 billion, BP acquired Amoco for $48 billion and Chevron bought Texaco for $36 billion -- the oil industry assumes that bigger is better. But some industry experts wondered if ConocoPhillips would have any advantage over competitors or would be greater than the sum of its parts.
Gerald J. Kepes, managing director for exploration and development at the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting group, said, "What's far more important than being No. 3 in the U.S. or No. 6 in the world is, are there five core areas where you are No. 1 or No. 2, and can generate superior returns."
Mr. Kepes said the biggest oil companies -- including Exxon Mobil, Shell and BP -- make their money by squeezing costs from an enormous portfolio of businesses. While ConocoPhillips can be expected to gain economies of scale by merging, it would still be far smaller than its largest rivals. To compete for investor interest, ConocoPhillips would have to increase its oil and gas output at a faster rate than such competitors.
The difficulty is that most of the two partners' oil holdings are in regions like Alaska and the North Sea, where production has gradually declined, and they do not have a formidable position in regions that will soon be bringing on lots of oil. The companies have said, however, that they would like to focus greater attention on gas production, which might explain their absence from some of the largest oil reservoirs being developed -- for example, off the West African coast.
Mr. Kepes said the merger might allow them to pursue big oil projects later. With greater cash flow, he said, ConocoPhillips might now be able to "take more risk on very large, capital-intensive projects."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Phillips Petroleum refinery at Sweeny, Tex. The company and its merger partner, Conoco, hope to place new emphasis on gas production. (Bloomberg News); Archie W. Dunham, Conoco's chief, insists that the deal is on. (Associated Press); James Mulva, Phillips's chief, is to be president of the new company. (Associated Press) Chart tracks oil and natural gas production and the worldwide leaders in oil across the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MERGERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (96%); CHEVRON CORP (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); TOTAL SA (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONOCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO 

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (96%); CVX (NYSE) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); TTA (LSE) (54%); TOT (NYSE) (54%); TOT (BIT) (54%); FP (PAR) (54%); FP (BRU) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (96%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (96%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (96%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (96%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: JAMES MULVA (58%) BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



742 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Indexes Gain as Prospects Look Rosier for 2002 Rebound

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
United States stocks, led by Citigroup, rose yesterday as investors speculated that profits would rebound next year. Airline stocks, including the AMR Corporation, surged as oil prices languished near two-year lows.
 AOL Time Warner climbed after its film "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" took in $93.5 million over the weekend, the biggest movie opening ever. Lowe's, the home improvement retailer, gained after it said sales would rise this quarter. 
 "People are looking into next year, and earnings are looking a lot better compared to 2001," said Brian Slater at Condor Capital Management in Martinsville, N.J. Interest rates at the lowest levels in four decades, combined with increased government spending and tame inflation, "are the prime ingredients for a strong rebound," Mr. Slater said.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.41 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,151.06. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 35.84 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,934.42. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 109.47 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,976.46.
Banks advanced. Citigroup, the largest financial services company, gained 80 cents a share, to $49.60; Bank One rose 95 cents, to $36.90; Mellon Financial advanced $1.15, to $37.75; and the PNC Financial Services Group added $1.08, to $56.73.
AOL advanced 85 cents, to $37.75. Its Warner Brothers unit made the Harry Potter film that is setting box- office records. The Harry Potter franchise, based on the worldwide best-selling children's books by J. K. Rowling, includes seven movies. It may generate more than $3 billion in sales for AOL over 10 years, Gordon Hodge, a Thomas Weisel Partners analyst, said on Friday. AOL has jumped 26 percent since Sept. 21.
The Amex airline index climbed 10 percent, the biggest one-day gain since May 2000. AMR, parent of American Airlines, rose 71 cents, to $20.77; Continental Airlines climbed $1.19, to $21.55; and Delta Air Lines advanced 85 cents, to $28.82.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as investors snapped up heavily discounted government bonds after a hefty week of selling in which yields on the benchmark 10-year note returned to rates seen before the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States.
"Certainly after six hard sessions, it needed a correction," said Robert Lunder, head of government bond trading at Bear, Stearns.
Bonds have lost much of their safe-haven luster in the Treasury market as stocks have forged higher and the United States has made swift progress in its war in Afghanistan.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 15/32 , to a price of 10121/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.78 percent from 4.85 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 21/32 , to 1023/32 . The bond's yield fell to 5.23 percent from 5.28 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.52599.015High Rate1.9001.960Investment Rate1.9362.006Low Rate1.86%1.90%Median Rate1.87%1.93%Total applied for$37,585,292$37,818,760Accepted$20,862,532$21,403,776Noncompetitive$1,365,245$1,110,501

Both issues are dated Nov. 23. The three-month bills will mature on Feb. 21, and the six-month bills on May 23.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FILM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); HOME CENTERS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); AMR CORP (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (75%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (75%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



743 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: A Better Chance for Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By Michael M. Weinstein; Michael M. Weinstein is director of the Geoeconomics Center at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
On some propositions, economists are nearly unanimous: Trade promotes economic growth. Growth reduces poverty. The agreement reached last week among the more than 140 trade ministers gathered in Doha, Qatar, is good for rich countries, perhaps even better for poor countries and surprisingly protective of the environment.
 The progress made last week could also prove to be a major policy success for the Bush administration. Robert Zoellick, the United States trade representative, deftly handled demands to reconsider patent policy, which is supported by the American pharmaceutical industry, as well as antidumping laws, which are favored by Democrats and union leaders. 
 The Doha negotiations took place under the shadow of the 1994 agreement that created the World Trade Organization. Under that agreement, industrialized countries in effect promised to buy more textiles and food from poor countries, a promise that has been largely ignored. In return, poor countries promised to honor copyrights and patents for drugs and other products -- a commitment that has proved to be hideously expensive. In Doha, poor countries demanded and got a better deal.
The ministers called for negotiations to phase out agriculture subsidies -- payments that encourage European and Japanese farmers to produce and export more food, thus driving down food prices to levels that make it impossible for third world farmers to survive. Poor countries also won a promise to revisit the enforcement of patent rules with an eye toward making it easier to produce their own generic drugs or buy them from other third world countries. Mr. Zoellick made the key compromise, even though American firms, among the largest and most profitable drug makers in the world, stand to lose the most.
Yet the compromise makes sense even for drug firms. They need to charge customers in rich countries high prices -- in excess of manufacturing costs -- to recover the huge costs of research and development. Once they do so, they do not need to charge high prices in poor countries. The Doha agreement invites such segmented pricing.
The Doha agreement should help countries become more environmentally friendly as well. The challenge was to find ways to protect the environment without coddling protectionists or zealots. Toward that end, ministers asked the trading community to take explicit account of the environment -- by, for example, calling for the environmental review of ongoing trade negotiations. The ministers also steered clear of calling for expensive environmental standards, heatedly opposed by the third world as unaffordable and as driven more by the need of Western firms to block competition than by humanitarian or environmental motives.
The ministers also wanted trade negotiators to find ways to accommodate multilateral environmental treaties. To enforce provisions, these treaties sometimes include trade sanctions -- sanctions that can violate the rules of the World Trade Organization. The Doha agreement invited negotiators to find ways for the organization to provide legal cover for trade sanctions that are part of a well-established, multilateral environmental treaty.
By allowing review of "antidumping" statutes, the Bush administration has drawn Democratic ire. These statutes permit countries to slap tariffs on imports that they decide are being sold below the exporter's costs of production, presumably for the purpose of driving domestic firms out of business. But antidumping statutes are routinely manipulated to punish legitimate foreign competition, especially from the third world steel firms. Poor countries demanded relief, and the Bush administration wisely agreed to a review.
This was no concession. It is the United States economy that gains from more cautious application of antidumping laws. Tariffs can prop up a steel plant or two. But they drive up costs in industries, like autos or construction, that use steel, making them more vulnerable to foreign competition and resulting in higher prices for hundreds of millions of consumers.
The Doha agreement does not do everything right. For example, it does not call for opening the organization's dispute-resolution panels to public scrutiny. Nor can the ministers guarantee that negotiators will follow their wise counsel. But if negotiators over the next several years are to have a chance of finishing in the right place, they almost certainly need to know where they should be heading. Doha points them in the right direction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PATENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PATENT LAW (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); AGRICULTURE (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M 

GEOGRAPHIC: QATAR (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) DOHA (QATAR)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



744 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Gore Joining a Financial Services Company 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Former Vice President Al Gore announced today that after more than two decades in government and politics, he would become the vice chairman of Metropolitan West Financial Inc., a financial services company based in Los Angeles. 
 Advisers to Mr. Gore said his foray into the private sector, which is effective immediately, should not suggest that he had ruled out running for president in 2004. If anything, they said, it will diversify his experience. 
 But the two chief fund-raisers for Mr. Gore's political action committee, Lon Johnson and Brian Hardwick, have announced their resignations in recent days. Both have told associates that they want to move beyond fund-raising.
Mr. Johnson, who was director of the committee, will run the re-election campaign for Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan. Mr. Hardwick, a consultant to the committee, will be the campaign manager for Tom Strickland, a Colorado Democrat running for the Senate.
The Gore committee, called Leadership '02, was created to help Democrats running for office next year. Some party strategists wondered why, if Mr. Gore had not ruled a presidential race in 2004, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Hardwick would leave the committee, which could become the vehicle for such a run, to take positions outside Washington.
People close to Mr. Gore, however, said that both aides would be replaced and that their departure should not be interpreted as suggesting that the former vice president was getting out of politics.
Metropolitan West is a 10-year-old closely held company that is not particularly well known but claims more than $50 billion in assets under management. With his extensive contacts, Mr. Gore will seek to bring it new business so that it can add to its equity investments in biotechnology, information technology and international markets. 
"For more than 25 years, I have worked on business and economic issues from the perspective of a public servant engaged in public policy," Mr. Gore said in a statement. "I am eager to learn more about business as an active executive of this dynamic and community-oriented company."
Since he lost the presidential election last year, Mr. Gore has been teaching, writing a book on the American family with his wife, Tipper, and speaking at select Democratic gatherings. People close to him said he had joined Metropolitan West because he wanted to make money -- the company would not disclose his salary -- and was intrigued by the offer.
But while the company is based in California, Mr. Gore plans to keep his principal residence in the Washington suburbs. He has been reconnecting with party fund-raisers, and his advisers said he was still considering whether to try to take on George W. Bush again. 
"This is not an indicator of future status of politics at all," one of Mr. Gore's advisers said of the new job. "It's not the decision he's going to make right now. He's in the same place he's been; he's having some other experiences."
Richard S. Hollander, Metropolitan West's chairman and chief executive, said in an interview that he met Mr. Gore last spring at a New York luncheon for the Triarc Companies. The intermediaries were two major political fund-raisers who know Mr. Gore: Nelson Peltz, chairman and chief executive of Triarc, a restaurant holding company, and Peter W. May, president and chief operating officer.
Mr. Hollander, a 44-year-old Queens native, began his career in 1980 in the institutional fixed-income department of Paine Webber in New York. He joined Drexel Burnham Lambert four years later, headed its high-grade-bond sales team on the West Coast, but left in 1988 to start a real estate investment and mortgage fund.
Metropolitan West was formed by him to acquire the securities-lending operations of Bank of America. It has expanded through a series of acquisitions of companies and talent, and now has 200 employees.
Mr. Hollander would not comment on Mr. Gore's possible political aspirations.
"Met West has never been an active political firm," he said. "That goes for myself as well. I've never been active in politics. And we're not going to have Met West cross into the political sphere. What people do on their own time, we're O.K. with it as long as it doesn't reflect poorly on us."
Mr. Hollander said he expected Mr. Gore to spend "a reasonable amount of time" in California and to travel extensively abroad to bring in business for the company.
Mr. Gore also plans to continue teaching courses on family-centered community building at Fisk University in Nashville and at Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro. In addition, he will be a research professor at the University of California at Los Angeles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore will become vice chairman of a Los Angeles company. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN WEST FINANCIAL INC 

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN DINGELL (58%) GORE, AL; BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



745 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Plans Stronger Role In Mideast Peace Talks
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said America would send envoys to the Middle East to seek a cease-fire, restart negotiations and help set the terms for a Palestinian state and a more secure Israel. A1

Israeli and Palestinian officials welcomed the Bush administration's commitment. A10

Labor Woes in Japan
With China, a new member of World Trade Organization, flexing its economic muscles, many Japanese fear that they are becoming an outdated power with a political system unable to meet China's challenge. A3

Winner in Kosovo Vote
Ibrahim Rugova claimed victory in Kosovo's general election. The relatively high turnout by Serbs was a shift that in many ways validated the process. Mr. Rugova outlined his intention to move quickly to declare Kosovo's independence, something that is supposed to be beyond the purview of the assembly and has been left deliberately vague by outsiders. A8

Search for American Sailors
Navy ships and helicopters searched for two American sailors missing in the northern Persian Gulf after an overloaded cargo ship they had boarded for inspection sank. A5

World Briefing A6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Cloud Forest in Danger
The Monteverde cloud forest in the mountains of Costa Rica, bathed in a curtain of life-giving fog, stands as an international model of conservation gone right. But despite Monteverde's tens of thousands of protected acres, scientists say this tropical luxuriance may be at risk because the clouds seem to be disappearing. The problem, scientists say, is that deforestation in the lowlands is lifting the mountains' mist out of the forest's reach. F4

Health & Fitness F7

NATIONAL A12-14

Nearly Normal Numbers Of Thanksgiving Travelers
With the Thanksgiving weekend approaching, Americans are traveling again, scrambling to join family and friends in distant places. Evidence suggests that they are scrambling in almost the same numbers, at least on the ground, as last year. Travel industry officials said a decision by so many Americans to travel displayed a triumph of the spirit. A12

Islamic Stamp Campaign
American Muslims are beginning a campaign to persuade people to buy the first United States stamp with an Islamic theme so that the postal service does not drop them. The stamp was issued on Sept. 1 and commemorates the two most important Muslim holidays. A12

Now It's Vice Chairman Gore
Former Vice President Al Gore announced that he will become vice chairman of Metropolitan West Financial Inc., a company based in Los Angeles. Advisers to Mr. Gore said his foray into the private sector should not suggest that he has ruled out running for president in 2004. A12

OBITUARIES A17

Harrison A. Williams Jr.
The Democratic senator from New Jersey who worked on behalf of labor and education before being convicted of bribery and conspiracy for promising to use his office to help a business venture in which he had a hidden interest was 81. A17

NEW YORK/REGION D1-8

Dramatic Confrontation In Auction Conspiracy Trial
The central witness in the price-fixing trial of A. Alfred Taubman of Sotheby's -- his former chief executive, Diana D. Brooks -- took the stand for the first time and testified that Mr. Taubman drafted her for a conspiracy with archrival Christie's that he sought to conceal until the very end. It was the most dramatic confrontation to date in the trial in federal court in Manhattan: the two former partners at the top of one of the the world's auction giants pointing fingers at each other in one of the art world's biggest scandals. A1

Scrutiny of Pilot Training
Investigators looking for the cause of the crash of the Airbus A300 that killed 265 people after taking off from Kennedy International Airport are scrutinizing training for American Airlines pilots that involves unusual emphasis on using the rudder to regain control of an airplane thrown into an unusual angle. D1

Toy Landmark Is Sold
F. A. O. Schwarz and its fantasyland for 5-year-olds on Fifth Avenue are changing hands. The Right Start Incorporated, a retailer based in California, struck a deal to acquire the F. A. O. brand and 23 of its 41 stores for about $55 million, in a package of stock and debt that included no cash, said Jerry R. Welch, the chief executive of Right Start. D4

Neediest Cases D8

FASHION A15

SPORTS S1-7

ARTS E1-8

Hard Times Hit Guggenheim
Admissions are down by almost 60 percent and revenue is running about half of what it is supposed to be at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum on Fifth Avenue. As of Friday 80 employees, roughly one-fifth of the staff, had been given pink slips in what the museum's director described as the initial round of layoffs. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Airport Capacity Reduced
Schedule cuts by the major airlines have reduced passenger capacity at big airports by as much as a third and increased the biggest carriers' dominance at many of those airports, according to a computer analysis for The New York Times. C1

Ready for Bull Market
The Dow Jones industrial average is up 21 percent from its low of Sept. 21 as investors appear to be bidding up stocks in an effort to enure they do not miss out on the next bull run. C1

Harassing Disabled Workers
Federal courts and juries are starting to treat the harassment of disabled employees at work just as seriously as traditional cases of sexual or racial harassment. But many companies are still slow to respond to the challenge, lawyers said. C1

Speculation on Oil Deal
A day after Conoco and Phillips Petroleum announced plans to merge, creating an oil company with a market value of $35 billion, the stock markets were abuzz with speculation that another suitor might emerge to woo Conoco, the fourth-largest oil company in the United States. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Pressing for a Mideast cease-fire; survival of the arts; Johnnie Cochran in deep water; Harry's big weekend.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives D2
Weather S2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MOUNTAINS (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (85%); RELIGION (84%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); RAIN FORESTS (70%); DEFORESTATION (70%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (69%); THANKSGIVING (67%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); HELICOPTERS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%)

PERSON: AL GORE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



746 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AFGHAN RELIEF EFFORT; 
Gift Tally: $1.5 Million In, But $2.5 Million Is Spent

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
America's Fund for Afghan Children, a program President Bush started last month to encourage children and families in the United States to contribute to the relief efforts for the children of Afghanistan, has collected about $1.5 million, officials said.
 But the American Red Cross, which receives and distributes the contributions, has already spent nearly $2.5 million through the program. 
 "We have spent more than we have taken in," said Leslie VanSant, a spokeswoman for the Red Cross. "The response has been so great, we are certain enough money will come in." 
Ms. VanSant said the program had been severely affected by the anthrax scares in Washington. "There is a lot of mail at the White House processing center that we have to get and open," she said. 
The off-site mail center for the White House was closed after traces of anthrax were discovered there on Oct. 23.
The White House created a ZIP code for the fund when President Bush established it last month, asking every child in the country to send in a dollar "right here to the White House." (There are roughly 72 million children younger than 18, according to the Census Bureau.)
The American Red Cross said it would absorb all overhead costs associated with the program "so that every dollar contributed by the American people to the fund will directly benefit Afghan children."
Ms. VanSant said she expected contributions to the fund to increase "exponentially" once mail began to flow regularly. Before the mail disruptions, she said, donations had arrived from every state and Puerto Rico -- at a rate of about 20,000 pieces of mail a day. 
Mr. Bush said he hoped schools and youth and community organizations would help raise money, too. "Wash a car," he said. "Do a yard for a neighbor."
Roxanna Brereton, 11, of Washington, for example, decided to sell flag pins for a profit, designing a simple version made from red, white and blue beads suspended from a safety pin. She sold them to her neighbors and to fellow patients at a dentist's office and to people on the street.
"When people on the street say they like my pin, I sell it to them," Roxanna said. "I tell them it was my idea for helping the children of Afghanistan."
She has made $123 in profit, which she sent to the White House, she said. 
The Red Cross says it consults the Agency for International Development on spending from the fund. In addition, the Red Cross works with international relief programs in Afghanistan and neighboring countries. The fund, Red Cross officials said, will help refugees in the region as well as children in Afghanistan.
The Red Cross said one in four Afghan children died before age 5. One in three is an orphan, it said, and almost half suffer from chronic malnutrition.
The program has paid for thousands of winter jackets, mittens, hats and boots and winter tents to be delivered this month, Ms. VanSant said. In addition, the Red Cross has sent blankets and tarpaulins to refugees in Pakistan and Turkmenistan. And tented medical sites, each run by two doctors and two nurses, have been set up in Pakistan. Each unit can provide basic care for about 4,000 children for six months, the Red Cross said.
The fund was modeled on the original 1938 March of Dimes campaign from the administration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In that successful effort, Roosevelt appealed to American children to donate a dime each to help eradicate polio. In four months, 2.6 million dimes were collected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush collecting donations last month from children at an event in Washington to promote America's Fund for Afghan Children. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); REFUGEES (73%); ANTHRAX (69%); CENSUS (53%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



747 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED -- AN OVERVIEW: NOV. 19, 2001; 
Talks About the Future, Pressure on the Taliban, Suspects in the West

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. MCFADDEN 

 BODY:
Decades of war and centuries of ethnic hatred have left Afghanistan broken: a country without a government, a land without an economy, a people torn apart by rivalries. With the Taliban nearly beaten, an effort to put the nation back together has begun, and a crucial step was made by the Northern Alliance, which seized control of the capital, Kabul, last week.
 A CONCESSION -- An American diplomat, James F. Dobbins, said that leaders of the victorious alliance had agreed to surrender sole power in Kabul to a transitional government that would be representative of Afghanistan's ethnic and political groups. Talks to establish an interim government are expected to get under way in Europe by the end of the week. 
 Formidable questions face the conference, which will presumably seek a power-sharing formula that would give appropriate weight to many factions -- Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras from the north and Pashtun groups from the south.
Beyond the new government's shape is another question: What sort of multinational force, if any, should be sent to Afghanistan to stabilize the country and support the new administration? Britain and France have indicated a willingness to send troops, but resistance to such a force is strong among the Northern Alliance leaders, and even the Bush administration is hesitant.
Another, more immediate problem is the alliance's reluctance to withdraw its forces from Kabul now, and to let a multinational force take control pending the establishment of a new government. Pashtun groups and Pakistan want the alliance to give way. With nothing settled, a British plan to send 4,000 troops was put on hold while the rival sides try to sort it all out.
LAST REDOUBTS -- Taliban forces were still holding out in Kunduz, in the north, and Kandahar, the southern city where the Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, was believed to be hiding. There had been talk in Afghanistan of letting Mullah Omar go if Kandahar was surrendered, but Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said no. American special forces combed mountains, caves and valleys southeast of Kandahar, but did not find Osama bin Laden. American bombs continued to fall around Kunduz, but Northern Alliance troops besieging the city suspended their ground assault and tried to persuade thousands of defenders -- mostly foreigners who fanatically support the Taliban cause -- to give up.
On the road from Jalalabad to Kabul, four foreign journalists -- Spanish and Italian reporters and Australian and Afghan photographers -- were shot dead by a half-dozen gunmen who halted their cars, ordered them out, beat them with rifle butts and opened fire, three witnesses said. The victims were part of an eight-car convoy, including Americans, with no armed escort.
TERRORIST CHARGES -- In Spain, where eight men were charged over the weekend with terrorist-related crimes, a judge disclosed details of the case -- suggesting that the suspects were Al Qaeda members who had led middle-class lives for years as they secretly recruited fighters for Mr. bin Laden's training camps or committed crimes to raise money for guns and explosives. He also said they might have had roles in preparing the attacks of Sept. 11.
In Washington, President Bush stoutly defended his order creating special military tribunals for foreigners accused of terrorism, saying extraordinary times demanded extraordinary measures. The plan has drawn a storm of criticism from civil libertarians, who contend it undermines fundamental rights of the criminal justice system.
The President also signed into law an airport security measure that will allow the Federal government to hire 28,000 people to screen passengers and baggage, replacing often ill-trained and low-paid employees of private security companies. It also calls for the inspection of all checked baggage, more sky marshals and the reinforcement of cockpit doors. Mr. Bush also invited scores of Muslim leaders and ambassadors to the White House for a traditional Ramadan dinner.
While the anthrax scare has been relatively subdued lately, investigators said that a sealed letter sent to Senator Patrick J. Leahy was contaminated with a highly refined form of the bacteria, comparable to one sent last month to the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle. Two Senate office buildings closed for cleaning after the discovery of the Leahy letter last Friday were reopened, and officials said they posed no risk to public health.
 ROBERT D. McFADDEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); TERRORISM (87%); SHOOTINGS (86%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EYEWITNESSES (66%); ANTHRAX (65%); RELIGION (62%); WRITERS (60%); JOURNALISM (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ANTHRAX; CAPITOL (WASHINGTON, DC) 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (73%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); KUNDUZ (AFGHANISTAN); SPAIN; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



748 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FEDERAL AID; 
Billions at Risk as New York Makes Missteps

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Only a few days after the World Trade Center attack, President Bush summoned members of New York's Congressional delegation to the White House. There, the Republican president promised to help New York recover -- and then pledged $20 billion to get things started. Even the most partisan Democrat there was moved by the gesture.
 But by last week, all that good will seemed to have vanished, and with it perhaps at least half of the $20 billion. New York lawmakers were summoned back to the White House, only this time to be taken down a notch. Vice President Dick Cheney, the president's enforcer on Capitol Hill, wanted them to back away from their threat to introduce legislation intended to force the administration to hand over all the money Mr. Bush had promised. 
 The contrast between those two meetings captured, in many ways, how far New York has already fallen in Washington's hierarchy of priorities, as the nation wages a war in Afghanistan and confronts the threat of more domestic terrorist attacks.
Some reasons for New York's predicament are beyond its control, like the nation's slumping economy, which makes the overall demand for federal money much higher than it has been in years.
But at least part of the blame rests with New York officials themselves, lawmakers from both parties say. The state's federal, state and city representatives often seem to have different, if not competing, agendas. At times, it has been hard to tell who is really doing the talking for New York in Washington.
Last week, for example, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seemed to undercut the lobbying efforts of his successor, Michael R. Bloomberg, who had traveled to Washington and joined members of New York's Congressional delegation in calling on the administration to make good on the president's $20 billion promise.
The next day Mr. Giuliani criticized such efforts, saying that he believed that the Bush administration would eventually move to fulfill the president's commitment. 
"What I would urge on everyone is to have a cooperative relationship rather than some of the finger-pointing that seems to be beginning," Mr. Giuliani said. "I think it should be nipped in the bud. And a cooperative relationship should replace it, and the city will get far more that way."
Mr. Giuliani's comments infuriated some New York lawmakers, who said it undermined their efforts to pressure the White House to give the state the money it was promised. "If the mayor says that New York doesn't need all the money right now, that hurts our cause," said a Congressional aide. "Why would he do that?"
New York's case has been undermined in other ways, most notably by what Democrats and Republicans characterize as missteps by Gov. George E. Pataki. A few weeks ago, Mr. Pataki submitted a $54 billion bailout request to Washington that sought money for, among other things, projects that had nothing to do with the events of Sept. 11. That plan was met with derision from Democrats and Republicans on the Hill who saw it as opportunistic.
Then, after a few trips to Washington to sell his plan, Mr. Pataki assumed a lower profile and seemed to cut back on his lobbying efforts. The governor appeared reluctant to take a position when a bipartisan group of New York lawmakers in Congress moved last week toward a showdown with the White House by introducing legislation that would have provided New York with the money agreed to by the president. (The measure sought $9.73 billion on top of roughly $10 billion the White House has sought to provide New York.)
In the end, the legislation was defeated by the House Appropriations Committee after the White House pressured lawmakers to oppose it. Afterward, many New York lawmakers accused Mr. Pataki, a Republican, of sitting on his hands and refusing to use whatever influence he has with the White House to help their cause.
These lawmakers -- none of whom wanted to be identified publicly because they feared antagonizing the governor, whose help they need -- say that Mr. Pataki's silence was all the more remarkable because the showdown with the White House was led by two upstate New York Republicans with close ties to the governor, Representatives John E. Sweeney and James T. Walsh.
Mr. Pataki's office has yet to say what the governor's position is on the matter, despite repeated requests over the last week. 
It wasn't supposed to turn out this way. Many lawmakers even expected the $20 billion pledge by the president to be a down payment -- not the entire amount that New York would need from the federal government to recover from the attack.
As things stand, the White House says that New York will eventually get all the money the president promised, though it hasn't said exactly when that will be. To date, the Bush administration and Congress have earmarked from $9.2 billion to $9.5 billion for New York's recovery effort. After last week's standoff, the White House agreed to increase the earmarked figure by $2 billion.
Many New York lawmakers say they are skeptical of the White House's $20 billion promise because the money was to have come from a $40 billion package that Congress approved after Sept. 11 to pay for military operations, antiterrorism measures and disaster relief. Only about a quarter of that $40 billion package was set aside for New York.
The lawmakers say they are concerned that Washington will stall on delivering the rest of the money now that it has a slew of new expenses -- a war in Afghanistan and antiterrorism efforts here at home -- at a time when the national economy is in steady decline.
Worse, they wonder, what will happen if there is another major attack in the United States before Washington gives New York the money it was promised?
Some New York lawmakers and their aides say the situation is especially troubling because they could be moving on to other pressing matters, instead of having to haggle over money that was already promised.
The state's two senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, have had some success in moving a $5 billion economic stimulus package for New York through their own chamber.
Many people feel a version of that plan would have a better chance of passage in the Senate and the House if the state's delegation focused on getting behind it rather than fighting over the $20 billion that the president had agreed to. As one Congressional aide from New York put it: "A promise is a promise. Why should you have to fight so hard for something you already have?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last week in Washington, where he pressed for aid for New York, Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg met with Vice President Dick Cheney, left. (White House photo by David Bohrer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); TERRORISM (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LOBBYING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



749 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Advocacy Group Says Homeless Are Breaking Shelter Records 

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO 

 BODY:
The number of people sleeping in municipal shelters and welfare hotels exceeds 29,000 nightly -- the highest number in the city's history, according to a report released yesterday by the Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy group.
 The report, based on an analysis of city data, comes in the midst of an economic downturn, aggravated by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center -- about 80,000 jobs were lost in October alone -- and just 41 days before Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg begins his term on Jan. 1. 
 That combination of factors -- a city bleeding jobs as a new mayor prepares to take office -- has prompted advocates for the homeless to sound the alarm and challenge Mr. Bloomberg to come up with creative solutions. 
"The cost of doing nothing is a real cost," said Patrick Markee, senior policy analyst for the coalition. "We call on the new administration to have a fresh approach."
Among the coalition's recommendations: expanding programs that provide emergency grants to families at risk of losing their homes and investing in legal services that help low-income tenants fight eviction. In addition, the group called on the city to convert private-market apartments, currently used as emergency shelters, to permanent housing. 
Housing emerged this year as one of the three main issues voters were paying attention to during the mayoral campaign, polls showed. Mr. Bloomberg has promised to put a deputy mayor and what he calls a multiagency "strike force" in charge of housing. He has said he dislikes new subsidies for housing, but wants to foster private development of affordable housing along the waterfront.
Edward Skyler, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said that although Mr. Bloomberg had not met with members of the coalition, he was aware of the increasing number of homeless people. Bob Mascali, first deputy commissioner in the Department of Homeless Services, said the city "continues to spend whatever is necessary to meet the needs of its homeless population."
Though the annual budget of Mr. Mascali's department is $490 million a year, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city would have to expand its emergency shelter system to make sure demand does not exceed supply, as members of the coalition said was likely to happen this winter.
The coalition's report says that 29,498 people reside each night in the city's shelters and welfare hotels, a record. That includes 12,414 children, an increase of nearly 60 percent from three years ago.
"It's time for the city to look at intelligent investments to prevent homelessness," said Steve Banks, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, which works with the coalition. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EVICTION (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); LEGAL AID (71%); TERRORISM (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) HOMELESS PERSONS; WELFARE (US); HOTELS AND MOTELS 

ORGANIZATION: COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%) OJITO, MIRTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



750 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Committee Members 

 BODY:
Following is a list of people named yesterday by Mayor-elect Michael Bloomberg to his transition committee. Nathan Leventhal, the former president of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, will head the committee.
Luis Garden Acosta, founder, El Puente 
The Rev. A. R. Bernard Sr., Christian Cultural Center 
Tom A. Bernstein, president, Chelsea Piers Management 
Alfred C. Cerullo III, president, Grand Central Partnership 
David C. Chang, president, Polytechnic University 
Kenneth I. Chenault, C.E.O., American Express 
Cesar J. Claro, executive director, Staten Island Economic Development Corporation 
Diane M. Coffey, managing director, Peter J. Solomon Company 
Gordon J. Davis, former parks commissioner 
Daniel L. Doctoroff, founder/president, NYC 2012 
Christy Ferer, C.E.O., Vidicom & Applevision 
Ricardo R. Fernandez, president, Lehman College 
Michael C. Finnegan, managing director, J. P. Morgan 
Matt Foreman, executive director, Empire State Pride Agenda 
James E. Francis, founder, Paradigm Asset Management 
Kate French, C.E.O., Wave Hill 
Richard E. Green, president, Crown Heights Youth Collective 
Dr. Edison O. Jackson, president, Medgar Evers College 
David R. Jones, president, Community Service Society 
Eugene J. Keilin, chairman, Citizens Budget Commission 
J. Robert Kerrey, president, New School/former United States senator 
George Klein, C.E.O., Park Tower Group 
Mathilde Krim, founder, AMFAR 
Christopher Kui, Asian-Americans for Equality 
Madeline Lee, president, New York Foundation 
Susana Torruella Leval, president, Museo del Barrio 
John A. Levin, chairman/C.E.O., John A. Levin & Company
Ed Lewis, publisher/C.E.O., Essence Communications 
Frank J. Macchiarola, president, St. Francis College 
Cheryl Marrow, president, National Association of Security Professionals 
Mary McCormick, president, Fund for the City of New York 
Megan E. McLaughlin, executive director/C.E.O., Federation of Protestant Welfare 
Lawrence J. Mone, president, Manhattan Institute 
Richard D. Parsons, co-chief operating officer, AOL/Time Warner 
Karen A. Phillips, president/C.E.O., Abyssinian Development Corporation.
Alfred P. Placeres, president, New York State Federation of Hispanic Chambers of Commerce 
Dennis Rivera, president, 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Service Union 
Kathy Rodgers, president, NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund 
Theodore Roosevelt IV, managing director, Lehman Brothers 
Rossana Rosado, publisher/C.E.O., El Diario 
William C. Rudin, chairman, Association for a Better New York 
Rosemary Scanlon, associate professor, N.Y.U. Real Estate Institute 
Susan Rona Scheer, executive director, Center for Independence of the Disabled in New York 
Norman Seabrook, president, Correction Officers Benevolence Association 
Ninfa Segarra, president, Board of Education 
Stanley S. Shuman, managing director, Allen & Company
Muriel Siebert, founder, Muriel Siebert & Company
Jerry Speyer, president, Tishman Speyer Properties 
David J. Stern, National Basketball Association commissioner and chairman of Columbia University 
Andy Unanue, chief operating officer, Goya Foods 
Das Elias Velez, law partner, Carro, Velez, Carro & Mitchell 
Dennis Walcott, resident/C.E.O., New York Urban League 
Randi Weingarten, president, United Federation of Teachers 
Alan H. Wiener, American Property Financing, former regional administrator of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
Bonnie Wong, founder and president, Asian Women in Business 
 Deborah C. Wright, C.E.O. Carver Bank 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (66%); BASKETBALL (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS 

COMPANY: ALLEN & CO INC (83%); MURIEL SIEBERT & CO INC (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (70%); BKF ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (67%); SIEBERT FINANCIAL CORP (61%); CHELSEA PIERS MANAGEMENT INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); C E O WAVE (56%); WELLS FARGO & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%)

TICKER: SIEB (NASDAQ) (61%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); WFC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (67%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (58%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001 



751 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BY THE BOOK; 
Childhood Recipe Horrors Exorcised

BYLINE:  By REGINA SCHRAMBLING 

 BODY:
A BOOK that makes you laugh out loud on virtually every page is not to be underestimated right now. But James Lileks's "Gallery of Regrettable Food" (Crown, $22.95) is more than a collection of easy jokes about gruesome photography and time-warp attitudes in recipe booklets from the 1940's through the 60's. The author sneaks in some serious insights into America's food culture along with all the belly laughs.
 In a chapter about a pamphlet on cooking with 7-Up, he writes: "At first, it seems as if they're trying to reassure us. Really! You're actually cooking when you use 7-Up! You're not just pouring sugar water into a bowl, you're really cooking. But you're not. You're committing a sin." 
 A steak is described as looking "as if El Greco had attempted to paint the mask from the 'Scream' movies." If the humor is often crude, so was this food, however familiar it seems.
Reading too much into "Regrettable Food" makes me feel a little like one of those academicians who can divine deep meaning in every finger of Michael Jackson's glove. But I'm fascinated by American food history, and this is a serious slice. 
The undercurrent on many pages is a sense of the rage felt by women of the era who were trapped in careers as home economists (that was once a career, remember?) at big food corporations they could be running today. The contortions they went through to make Vienna sausages appetizing were herculean. And the alternative to the white-glove and perky-hat world, Mr. Lileks reminds the reader, was a woman's trading her identity for a married name and a bleak life chained to the stove.
In a chapter called "Poultry for the Glum," about a booklet with 250 ways to cook birds, Mr. Lileks takes a real headnote, "You will enjoy spaghetti more than ever as a la diable," and completes it with "provided you don't mind the stink of brimstone when you pull it from the oven."
Like Dave Barry, and just about every other American male of a certain age that I know, Mr. Lileks takes indecent pleasure in finding what's funny in bodily functions. But somehow it seems appropriate. Any child of the 50's will feel vindicated on reading his descriptions of this food, much of which seems as if I had refused to eat it only yesterday. 
Mr. Lileks is a columnist for The Minneapolis-St. Paul Star Tribune and also runs his own Web site (www.lileks.com). He has that highly honed sense of irreverent topicality that daily newspapers and insatiable cyberspace demand. He also lets his id out at every opportunity, as journalists did back in the days when they hung out after work in bars, not gyms. This food is not culinarily correct. Why should he cave in to political niceties? 
The tough cynicism is tenderized, though, by the genesis of the book. In 1996, the author discovered a pamphlet called "Specialties of the House" published by the North Dakota State Durum Wheat Commission, which was given to his mother in 1962 by the Welcome Wagon in Fargo. It was pristine, lying under an unused atlas in a closet, and he was fascinated by the photographs: "The Italian dishes look like what happens when a surgeon gets a sneezing fit during an operation." 
Mr. Lileks had opened a door into an age of innocence, when the only spice permitted in excess was fat. Yet he was living in an era when "each gram of fat is regarded as one more bounce on the diving board over an open grave lined with Doritos."
This is the kind of book that could wind up relegated to toy stores for grownups, like Alphabets. But right now, when Americans look back in longing, it belongs on every food lover's bookshelf. 
Meantime, I take comfort in thinking that one day someone will be inspired to do a similar riff on the great chefs' ego extravaganzas of those peaceful, blissful years in the very late 1900's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEELING NOSTALGIC? -- A new book, left, insults the familiar food of the decades following World War II. Below, a promotional brochure from Toastmaster touted "toast and things" for appetizers that guests could assemble themselves; bottom, a dish the author calls a "hot dog scrum." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WOMEN (78%); WRITERS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); POULTRY (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS 

PERSON: SCHRAMBLING, REGINA; LILEKS, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



752 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Foundation Starts $50 Million Fund for Arts Groups Hurt by Terrorism 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation announced yesterday that it was establishing a $50 million fund for museums, theaters, dance companies and other cultural institutions affected by repercussions from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, as well as for public parks where people congregated after the disaster.
 "At the same time that we are concerned about the victims and their families, we have to be concerned about the future of the city," said William G. Bowen, president of foundation, which is based in Manhattan and is a longtime supporter of the arts. 
 The fund comes at a time when many arts and cultural organizations are reeling from an economic downturn made worse by the terrorist attacks, a decline in tourism and a falloff in donations. The New York City Department of Cultural Affairs also anticipates slicing about $20 million from its $137 million budget to meet Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's order that city agencies look for 15 percent budget cuts. 
A survey of 150 New York arts organizations released this week by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan policy institute that focuses on economic issues, found that "nonprofit arts organizations are entering their rockiest period in over 30 years." 
Dr. Bowen said the foundation would accept grant requests immediately and would probably make awards ranging from $250,000 to $1 million or $2 million. There are no formal applications. 
T. Dennis Sullivan, the financial vice president at Mellon, said the foundation expected to spend at least some of the money before the year ends. 
"We would invite them to submit proposals and to describe how they have been affected and how they would use this transition funding," Dr. Bowen said. "We're not big on forms." 
The foundation has no specific checklist of criteria, and is willing to give money to large institutions and small ones. Foundation officials say they may also try to work through some established service organizations like the New York Foundation for the Arts, letting them deal directly with applicants.
"We're looking for ideas," Mr. Sullivan said, "and we'll be persuaded by the cases that will be made to us."
The foundation is less certain about what it might do with the parks.
"Our trustees had a sense of wanting to go beyond the kinds of institutions that we've traditionally supported, like museums, libraries, theaters and dance companies, to do something for the city more generally," Mr. Sullivan said. "The parks served such an important role in the immediate aftermath of the September events that we wanted to do something. In the weeks ahead we will try to explore what vehicles might be available to capitalize on that idea."
Mr. Sullivan said the money would come in part from the substantial returns the foundation earned on its investment portfolio until recently.
Dr. Bowen said the foundation was concerned that cultural institutions were being financially pummeled and that those with limited resources might have to close. 
"All of this is happening so fast that some places may be compelled to make decisions that could have long-term effects on them, because they have no choice," Dr. Bowen said. "We thought that if we could help by providing some significant funding now, we could make a difference." Information about the program will be available on the foundation's Web site: www.mellon.org. 
The grants will be administered by a committee of three trustees led by Hanna H. Gray, the president emeritus of the University of Chicago who is also chairwoman of the foundation's trustees.
The other members will be Dr. Bowen and W. Taylor Reveley III, dean of the William and Mary School of Law. Mr. Sullivan, a former executive director of the New York City Municipal Assistance Corporation, will be the chief staff officer for the effort.
The Mellon Foundation has an endowment of about $4 billion and a long commitment to the humanities and the arts. About a quarter of its approximately $175 million in annual spending goes to cultural and performing arts organizations. Money spent through the new fund will be in addition to the previously planned spending.
"Foundations generally are like little old ladies crossing the street," said Schuyler G. Chapin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs. "Somebody has to take the first step. The Mellon Foundation has positively taken the first step and I hope others will follow."
He said he was particularly pleased that the money would be available to arts organizations throughout the city, not just those below 14th Street.
Ellen V. Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History, said: "This is a shot in the arm to cultural institutions at a time we all very much need it. Our attendance is down; there are many fewer tourists in New York and we feel that right away."
David Fischer, project director at the Center for an Urban Future, called the fund a "great idea." 
"It really provides some first aid in this abnormal time," he said. "This might make the difference between 10 or 12 organizations riding out the storm or going under."
Dr. Bowen said that the foundation also saw arts and cultural institutions as a critical part of the rebuilding process and hoped that the fund would "send a message about the importance of these institutions and our commitment to them." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); DANCE (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) CULTURE; PHILANTHROPY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: MELLON, ANDREW W, FOUNDATION 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%) ARENSON, KAREN W; BOWEN, WILLIAM G; SULLIVAN, T DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



753 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; 
Accord May Be Near on Oil Production Cuts to Prop Up Prices

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Russia remained the question mark in the standoff between OPEC and oil exporters outside the cartel after two of the largest nonmember exporters signaled today that an agreement was near to reduce output in hopes of propping up prices.
 After meeting in Oslo, the energy ministers of Norway and Mexico, No. 2 and No. 3 among exporters that do not belong to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, said they were in agreement on a plan for cutbacks, and that it was now up to Russia, which is No. 1, to make the plan succeed by reducing its daily production by "a couple of hundred thousand barrels." 
 The ministers said they expected to reach a consensus on the 500,000-barrel-a-day total reduction OPEC wants from non-OPEC producers "in the next few days."
The remarks drove up the price of oil from the 29-month low reached on Monday. In New York, crude oil for January delivery rose 72 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $19.15 a barrel. In London, Brent crude oil for January delivery rose 74 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $18.75 a barrel. 
Earlier in the day in Moscow, the Russian government, which made no official statement on the matter, nonetheless appeared to be shifting its stance concerning production cuts. Viktor Khristenko, the deputy prime minister in charge of oil exports, said this morning that Russia was worried about falling oil prices, and without elaborating, said, "further decisions will be set out soon."
Separately, the Russian finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, told the Parliament today that the government would have to review its growth forecasts for next year because of world recession and low energy prices, a sign that the country is growing worried and may be less averse to cuts.
Still, many analysts are unpersuaded. Russia has never agreed to a production cut of more than 100,000 barrels a day, they said, and even the reduction the country promised during the 1998 oil price collapse would largely have happened anyway because of a debt crisis.
It is "a classic Russian game of playing hardball and then giving away as little as possible," said James Henderson, oil analyst at Renaissance Capital, a Moscow-based investment bank. "While the price is at $18, the Russians are happy. They might offer something small, but it will be one of those offers no one will really believe."
OPEC has been trying for weeks to get its own members and the major non-OPEC exporters, especially Russia, to agree to reduce supplies of crude oil that are now flooding the market and depressing prices as the world economy slows. To press the point, OPEC's secretary general, Ali Rodriguez of Venezuela, is expected to visit Moscow sometime in the next few weeks.
Russia's refusal so far to promise more than token reductions, and OPEC's announcement that it would not cut back production on its own, sent benchmark oil prices tumbling 20 percent last week.
The root of the problem is surging Russian oil production -- up 7 percent this year and likely to rise another 7 percent next year, analysts said. Even if the Russian government agrees to require its oil industry, now mostly in private hands, to trim exports by the 150,000 barrels or 200,000 barrels a day demanded by OPEC, rapid growth in production is already in the works for next year, and the financial health of several major Russian oil companies depends on it.
In the short term, a cut in daily exports of "150,000 barrels is very easily achieved," said Simon G. Kukes, the chief executive of Tyumen Oil, Russia's fourth-largest producer. "The hard part for Russia is not reducing from current levels. The industry was planning to increase production in 2002 -- can we divert all this to the domestic market? It's unlikely."
Russian oil companies still have some breathing room before falling prices start to cause them pain. Mr. Kukes said that his company would increase output at a slower pace if the reference price of Brent crude fell below $18 a barrel, but that the Russian industry would still be profitable at prices down to $10 a barrel. In fact, falling prices may prompt some companies to step up output further to maintain revenue.
"Our idea was to try to keep the same earnings but with different volumes -- to increase volumes dramatically," said Eugene Shvidler, the president of Sibneft, another Russian oil company, in a recent conversation.
Government officials responsible for keeping next year's budget on course, like Mr. Kudrin, may have a different perspective. A fall of $1 in the price of oil removes $1.1 billion in revenue from Russia's federal budget. A surplus this year gives the government some maneuvering room, but a long period of low prices could play havoc with future spending plans.
Still, analysts do not see cause for alarm. "Kudrin is nervous to some extent," said Aleksei Zabotkine, chief economist at the United Financial Group, an investment bank based in Moscow. "He's just trying to go the more conservative way. I don't think they consider themselves as being in danger."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since June 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (61%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (59%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); NORWAY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



754 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Posts Decline That Is Largest on Record 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The trade deficit shrank by a record amount in September after the terrorist attacks disrupted air travel, slowed oil imports and drove up payments from overseas insurance companies, the government reported today.
 The gap in goods and services trade narrowed to $18.7 billion from $27.1 billion in August, the Commerce Department said. The deficit was the narrowest since March 1999, and the decline was the largest on record. Exports fell to the lowest level in two and a half years, reflecting weak economies worldwide. 
 "The world economy is slowing, and that is reducing demand for U.S. products," said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pa.
While a shrinking deficit is typically positive for gross domestic product, the September report is unusual because adjustments for insurance claims depressed imports.
A separate report, from the Conference Board, showed that the index of leading economic indicators unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent in October after falling 0.5 percent in September. The increase would typically point to a stronger economy next year. That may not be true this time because some manufacturing components in the index were stronger than other measures suggest, analysts said.
Slower supplier delivery times, which imply rising demand, and higher stock prices were among the signs of a strengthening economy, the leading indicators report said. Other positive indicators were an increase in the money supply, a wider spread between the yield on 10-year Treasury notes and the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate, and rising consumer expectations.
The Conference Board also said it expected that orders for nonmilitary capital goods and for consumer goods would show an increase for the month, adding to the index.
Negative indicators included increased claims for unemployment benefits, shorter factory hours and fewer permits for new-house construction.
Analysts had expected the Commerce Department report to show a trade deficit of $24.8 billion.
Imports fell 14 percent, the sixth consecutive decline, to $96 billion. That included a drop of 75 percent in services imports, where insurance payments and air fares are counted.
The attacks on the World Trade Center led to claims on overseas insurers in excess of premiums. Lloyd's of London may have responsibility for as much as a quarter of the $40 billion in losses. The Commerce Department subtracted $11 billion in insurance payments from imports.
Without the adjustment, the trade gap probably widened. The effect of the import drop on gross domestic product will probably not be felt because the Commerce Department will offset the value of insurance coverage with a reduction in the price.
September imports of consumer goods rose 0.2 percent, to $23.3 billion, led by increases for pharmaceuticals, household goods, televisions and VCR's.
Exports fell 8.5 percent, to $77.3 billion, the lowest since March 1999. The drop was led by capital goods. Exports of consumer goods fell 4.2 percent. Exports of commercial aircraft fell 6.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"Index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100. Monthly ChangeOct.: +0.3%Sept.: -0.5Aug.: -0.1 Graph tracks indicators from May 2000 to October 2001.(Source: The Conferance Board) Chart: "Balance of Trade"Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. September 2001Balance: -$18.69Imports: 95.99Exports: 77.29 Graph tracks imports and exports from April 2000 to September 2001. Graph tracks deficit figures from April 2000 to September 2001 and highlights 12-month moving average.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from September to October. Average workweek of production workers in manufacturingContrib. to index: -0.09 Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*Contrib. to index: -0.21 New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflationContrib. to index: +0.07 Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers)Contrib. to index: +0.16 New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflationContrib. to index: +0.07 New building permits issuedContrib. to index: -0.07 Index of stock pricesContrib. to index: +0.09 Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflationContrib. to index: +0.09 Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury notes and federal fundsContrib. to index: +0.14 Index of consumer expectationsContrib. to index: +0.05 *Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement.(Source: The Conference Boarderal funds Index of consumer expectations) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); AIRLINES (66%); AIR FARES (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (63%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



755 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Court Ruling In Arms Case Frees Menem In Argentina 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Former President Carlos Saul Menem was released from house arrest today after the Supreme Court ruled that prosecutors had failed to prove that he and his former brother-in-law were involved in a conspiracy to smuggle arms to Croatia and Ecuador between 1991 and 1995. 
 The six-to-two decision does not close the door to future prosecution of Mr. Menem, but aides said he was already planning a national tour to begin his campaign to become the presidential candidate of his Justicialist Party in 2003. 
 Mr. Menem has cast a long shadow over Argentina since his election in 1989 when he burst onto the political scene with his mutton-chop sideburns, zest for fast sports cars and ostentatious way of life. During his decade in power, he sold off much of the state to private businesses, pegged the value of the peso to the dollar, expanded commercial relations with Brazil and linked his country's foreign policy with that of the United States. 
The 71-year-old former president, still the official head of his party, faces a challenge for the leadership from former Vice President Eduardo Duhalde, now a senator-elect from Buenos Aires Province. The fight is expected to be heated and could determine how helpful the opposition will be as President Fernando de la Rua tries to avert a financial collapse in the coming months. 
Mr. Menem is considered a less aggressive opponent of the de la Rua administration than Mr. Duhalde, who has called for a complete revamping of economic policy. 
Today's ruling dropped charges of illicit association against Emir Yoma, Mr. Menem's former brother-in-law and business associate, who prosecutors said was put in charge of a gun-running scheme by the former president. But by ruling that there was a lack of evidence, the court by implication extended the decision to Mr. Menem, who had been under house arrest since June in a friend's house outside Buenos Aires.
Congressman Adrian Menem, the former president's nephew, said Mr. Menem told his supporters today that "without rancor or hatred I will work for Argentina."
A federal judge and prosecutors charged that Mr. Menem, Mr. Yoma and several senior officials had secretly transferred 6,500 tons of arms and munitions supposedly destined for Panama and Venezuela to Croatia and Ecuador.
Mr. Menem and the others said they did not know that arms dealers had rerouted the shipments, in violation of a United Nations arms embargo in the Balkans in Croatia's case and in the case of Ecuador when Argentina was mediating a border dispute between that country and Peru.
Polls indicate that Mr. Menem does not have wide popular support these days because of persistent accusations of corruption and a continuing recession that began in the last two years of his second term. Nevertheless, he is a charismatic campaigner with strong support in several western rural provinces and among several powerful governors and members of Congress. 
Shortly before his arrest he married Cecilia Bolocco, a 36-year-old Chilean who is a former Miss Universe. Ms. Bolocco has since tried hard to imitate Eva Peron, the wife of Juan Domingo Peron, the Justicialist Party's founder, by flashing the V for victory salute just as Ms. Peron did when her husband was a political prisoner and, later, president.
In recent months, Ms. Bolocco appeared on the cover of one magazine apparently wearing only a rabbit stole dyed in the colors of the Argentine flag and for a time she tied back her hair in the Eva Peron style. She has also proved to be a fiery speaker and says she is eager to join her husband on the campaign trail. 
The two are expected to tour La Rioja Province, Mr. Menem's home base, within the next few days and then head for Buenos Aires Province, Mr. Duhalde's stronghold. 
After the announcement of her husband's release, Ms. Bolocco greeted dozens of well-wishers outside the house where she has remained with her husband and exchanged hugs and kisses. "We are very content," she said.
In recent days, Mr. de la Rua and his senior aides have said they thought it was a mistake to hold a former president under arrest on charges of "illicit association." Critics viewed the comments as an unusual public intervention by the executive branch in a judicial case.
President de la Rua denied today that he had anything to do with the court's decision despite a long history of presidential interference in cases here. 
Mr. Duhalde said he would forcefully compete with Mr. Menem for leadership of the party in a primary election scheduled for next year. "Menem became an ally of the powerful and that is not what Justicialism is all about," Mr. Duhalde said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HOUSE ARREST (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ARRESTS (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); JUDGES (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARMS EMBARGOES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMS SALES ABROAD; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%) ARGENTINA (95%); CROATIA (94%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA; CROATIA; ECUADOR

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



756 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Big Economies Near a Standstill, O.E.C.D. Says 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The world's major economies have slowed to a "virtual standstill" this year but are expected to rebound strongly in the second half of 2002, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said here today.
 The group, made up of 30 advanced economies, said in its twice-yearly report that the "slowdown that started in the United States last year, and spilled over to other countries, has turned into a global economic downturn." 
 The O.E.C.D.'s chief economist, Ignazio Visco, said at a news conference that output in its 30 countries was expected to contract by 0.3 percent in the second half of this year. 
Growth for all of 2001 will be limited to 1 percent -- compared with the 2 percent growth forecast in the organization's report in May -- and remain "very weak" in the first half of next year.
The pace is projected to pick up in 2002, paving the way for a rebound to 3 percent growth in 2003, the report said.
Events related to the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 worsened the situation, further slowing business investment, consumer demand and overall economic activity, and inflicting "a severe shock to the world economy," the report said.
"For the recovery to occur," it added, "it is crucial that the sentiment of insecurity prevailing since September dissipates."
The O.E.C.D. praised the "rapid and timely" interest rate cuts in the United States before and after the attacks, saying these were among the factors that would contribute to a robust recovery for global economies.
"With the fading of the main contractionary forces, demand and activity would rebound and the recovery could be strong and fully visible by the second half of 2002," said the report, which forecast 3.8 percent growth for the United States in the second half of 2002.
The O.E.C.D. said that economic activity in Europe "has weakened considerably" this year and that growth there is expected to recover more slowly than in the United States -- at a 2.7 percent pace by the second half of next year.
It was pessimistic about Japan, calling prospects for a recovery "distant" and adding that fiscal and monetary policy had "limited room for maneuver." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); HIJACKING (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%) ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



757 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Pull Back as Sellers Try to Lock In Recent Gains

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street's efforts to start a new bull market stalled yesterday in a retreat that was expected as investors sold stocks to preserve profits from the latest rally.
 Prices fell despite a better-than-expected report on the index of leading economic indicators for October from the Conference Board, a private industry group. Analysts said the good news was not enough to offset doubts that the market's advance might last. They also said some selling was inevitable after the strong performance in recent days. 
 "There's still little evidence of an economic or business recovery, so this rally has so far been mostly based on expectation," said Barry Hyman, the chief investment strategist at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum. "And there's only so much you can invest on expectation before you start to worry you'll lose your profits."
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 75.08 points, or 0.8 percent, to 9,901.38. For a second day, the Dow remained 20 percent above the low for 2001, which it set on Sept. 21. Such a gain fits the technical definition of a bull market.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 8.40 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 1,142.66, while the Nasdaq composite index decreased 53.91 points, or 2.8 percent, to 1,880.51.
The losses were not surprising given the market's recent surge. Investors have been buying gradually since the precipitous sell-off after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Specifically, analysts say that Wall Street is feeling more optimistic about a business turnaround and that the United States military victories in Afghanistan have helped restore investors' confidence.
Although the three major indexes have each made double-digit percentage advances the last two months and have returned to their preattack levels, most analysts caution against too much exuberance. They note that much of the recent gain is a rebound from a catastrophic loss, rather than buying on healthy earnings.
Still, there are some encouraging signs. For last month, the index of leading economic indicators, which gauges economic activity over the next three to six months, rose 0.3 percent, after a drop of 0.5 percent in September. Wall Street had been expecting a flat report for October, but the number suggested that the economy might be stabilizing. That might make the Federal Reserve less inclined to cut interest rates for the 11th time this year at its next meeting, but analysts were still pleased.
 --------------------

Treasuries Are Lower
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices fell yesterday after an unexpected rise in the index of leading economic indicators suggested that the Federal Reserve would be less likely to cut the benchmark lending rate at a policy meeting on Dec. 11.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32, to a price of 101 1/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.87 percent from 4.78 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 5/32, to 100 28/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.32 percent from 5.23 percent on Friday.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures

Price: 99.850
High Rate: 2.000
Coupon Yield: 2.031
Low Rate: 1.940
Median Rate: 1.985
Total applied for: $52,169,029
Accepted: $23,753,941
Noncompetitive: $28,608

The four-week bills mature on Dec. 20.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks the yields of yesterday and one month ago.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



758 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Russian Oil Production Still Soars, for Better and Worse 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES and SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
While nobody was watching, this country's oil producers so dramatically ratcheted up production in the last two years that they now occupy a catbird seat, able to whipsaw oil prices -- and potentially the global economy -- just by turning down the Russian spigot. 
 Trouble is, they only seem to know how to turn the spigot up. 
 Witness last week's remarkable events. In the space of 10 days, the price of a barrel of crude has fallen 20 percent. Saudi Arabia beseeched the Russians to cut oil exports, to no avail. OPEC nations threatened a price war if Russia did not change its mind, again to no avail. 
Today the Kremlin had to pare back its 2002 economic forecast, principally because of lower oil prices. Meanwhile, the state-owned pipeline company, Transneft, trumpeted the opening of a Baltic Sea terminal that will flood an already saturated market with another 240,000 barrels of oil a day.
That is only the beginning. In the next four years alone, according to analysts at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, huge sums already sunk into new pipelines and reinvigorated oilfields should boost Russian oil exports by a fifth, to 5.34 million barrels a day.
"There's nothing in there that indicates a willingness to cut back either on the part of the oil companies or the government," said Thane Gustafson, the top Eurasian expert at Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Washington. "If Russia were to slam on the brakes now, it would be Ben Hur pulling back suddenly on his chariot while it's going full speed ahead."
In that case, other oil-producing nations might have little choice but to go along for what could be, at least briefly, a wild ride. Prospects for a further plunge in oil prices seemed to ebb a bit today as two other big non-OPEC exporters, Norway and Mexico, said they would reduce their output in line with OPEC requests.
If, that is, Russia goes along.
Even some Russian oil companies are mulling over a temporary cut in exports. But they key word is temporary. No one, including the companies themselves, believes that the explosive growth in Russian output will be restrained for long, even amid a recession that has cut deeply into demand.
The temptation is to view Russia's sudden emergence as the swing vote on world oil prices as deft strategy by a Kremlin determined to reassert itself as a global power and a force in Western affairs.
President Vladimir V. Putin has surely packaged it that way, telling a World Economic Forum meeting in Moscow last month that as "instability in the world directly impacts world markets, Russia remains a reliable and predictable partner and supplier of oil." Translation: remember that should the Middle East crumble under terrorism and religious ferment, Russia can keep oil flowing westward.
Americans are listening. "The Saudis aren't so popular in the U.S. right now," Michael McFaul, a leading Russia scholar at Stanford University, said last week. "I've been on a hundred news programs over the past two months and every time, the question comes up. "Why doesn't the U.S. import more oil from Russia?' "
But there is less strategy here than meets the eye. Russia has influence by dint of being the world's second-largest oil exporter behind the Saudis, a ranking it has held for decades. Its present extraordinary hold on oil prices, however, has less to do with strategy than with the lack of one.
Russian oil is a free market. The major oil companies, profit-hungry and mutually mistrustful, are mostly beyond control by either the government or each other. If OPEC ministers can usually turn their government-owned spigots up or down with ease, Russia's powerful and mostly private oil industry argues for pumping and exporting as much oil as possible, as quickly as possible. 
Chief among them is economics. From 1990 to 1996, oil output here dropped by a staggering 3.86 million barrels a day -- almost 40 percent of all production. Russia's economy ground to a halt, as did the financing of its oil industry. Wells and refineries remained mismanaged and investment-starved for years.
But Russia's 1998 fiscal collapse transformed the industry's economics. Suddenly, currency devaluation made Russian oil companies the world's low-cost producers and put a huge premium on selling oil for dollars, as exports, instead of rubles.
Combined with a spike that sent oil prices to the mid-$30's per barrel, that sparked a staggering investment in oil fields: in the first half of this year, spending on Russian exploration and drilling rose 50 percent. The government, meanwhile, has helped build new pipelines to the Baltic and Black Seas to capitalize on surging demand for the region's crude.
From Russian companies' standpoint, limiting production now would amount to idling a multibillion-dollar investment -- and all to satiate Arab oil barons who profited handsomely from Russia's 1990's decline. Just as galling, perhaps, is that OPEC's proposed cut in exports, 500,000 barrels a day, happens to precisely match Russia's export increase this year.
"Russians will say, 'You had billions of dollars in revenue in the 1990's, and the only reason was that we cut our oil production while we reorganized our economic system,' " Adam E. Sieminski, a global oil analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown in Maryland, said. " 'What right do you have to tell me that we can't go up a million barrels after we lost four million! How dare you!' And it would be true."
All that said, the Kremlin might well profit from limiting exports, because Russia's budget hangs on petroleum. Oil and gas exports provide $4 of every $10 in government revenue. The government's economic plans assume that oil will average $20 per barrel in 2002.
Historically, low oil prices have not been good for Russia. Mikhail Gorbachev's government foundered in part because sagging oil prices in the late 1980's left it starved for cash to feed the Soviet Union's inefficient economy. A 1998 collapse in oil prices, to below $10 a barrel, broke President Boris N. Yeltsin's budget and doomed his government.
Avoiding that would be no problem if the Kremlin could dictate oil policy the way the Soviet Union did in the 1970's and 1980's. But here, at least, the Soviet Union is dead.
"The government does not control the oil industry -- it's the other way around," Yevgeny Khartukov, the director of the nonprofit International Center for Petroleum Business Studies in Moscow, said in an interview.
"Western specialists very often don't understand this. They ask, 'How will Putin's position affect the development of the oil industry?' And I answer: 'Putin's position will be handed to him by the oil sector.' "
In the long run, Russia's oil influence may not last.
No. 2 in exports or not, Moscow produces only between 9 and 10 percent of the world's output, and its newfound power rests in part on a recession that has reduced worldwide demand.
When global demand recovers -- and when Russian consumption increases, as it must if the economy continues to thrive -- Russian companies will gradually shift more oil flow to buyers at home, leaving less for better-heeled foreign clients. 
But that assumes that a future Middle East crisis does not catapult Russia to the top of the list of favored suppliers, an assumption that looks less reliable these days than in the past.
"If you think that is a problem, then substituting oil outside the Arab region is a good idea," said Lucian Pugliaresi, a Washington, D.C., oil consultant who advised President Reagan on energy security.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heavy investment in pipeline and exploration operations, like the Astra platform in the Caspian Sea, has greatly increased Russian oil production. (Reuters) Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Russia's Oil Boom"Russia is having an oil production growth spurt that may continue for the next few years. Below are the four countries with the highest oil production in 2000. Graph tracks Million barrels per day for the following countries: SAUDI ARABIARUSSIANORWAYVENEZUELA 1999-2005 (projected 2002-2005)(Source: Deutsche Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); ENERGY RESEARCH (64%); TERRORISM (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: IHS INC (66%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%) WINES, MICHAEL; TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) CASPIAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



759 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Denmark Shifts to Right in Election Centering on Immigration 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Danish voters concerned that immigrants are exploiting the welfare system shifted to the right in parliamentary voting today, handing the Liberal Party-led opposition a big victory over the Social Democrats.
 With 98.4 percent of the vote counted, the Liberal Party and its supporters, including the anti-immigration Danish People's Party, had 98 seats in the 179-seat Parliament, well above the 90 needed for a majority. 
 The ruling Social Democrats and their parliamentary supporters won just 77 seats, down from 89 in the last Parliament. 
"It has been a historic day," said the Liberal Party leader, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, widely expected to be chosen the next prime minister. If given the opportunity, he said, "I'll be prime minister for the whole population."
Denmark's four million voters chose from 984 candidates in 10 parties for four-year parliamentary terms in the Folketing, or Parliament. For the first time, elections were held for county and municipal officials on the same day as the national vote.
The Social Democratic prime minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, 58, who has led the country since 1993, set the date for the quadrennial elections late last month. His popularity soared with his strong support for the American-led fight against terrorism, only to fall as the immigration debate exposed ruling party divisions. The two candidates are not related.
"The country we are now handing over to a right-leaning government is a well-functioning country," said Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen, who will remain in a caretaker role until a new government is formed within days. "We will be a fair and consistent opposition."
The more charismatic Mr. Fogh Rasmussen, 48, has played down criticism of xenophobia but pledged to crack down on foreigners trying to cheat the system.
"Denmark must not be the social security office for the rest of the world," he said during the three-week campaign.
It was the first time since 1920 that the Liberals, with 56 projected seats in contrast to the 42 seats they won in 1998, had surpassed the Social Democrats, who dropped from 63 seats to 53.
Many voters said they had been looking for a government change as they cast their ballots today. "Nyrup seems burned out and doesn't seem trustworthy anymore," said Stig Lassen, a 41-year-old businessman. 
The parties are largely in agreement on major issues, including a need to improve education, health care, care for the elderly and the economy. Denmark has an unemployment rate of 5 percent. 
The main issue in the campaign -- family reunification for immigrants, which has long simmered in the mainly Lutheran country -- was heightened by the attacks on New York and Washington. Critics also say the law provides a way for foreigners living here to bring in spouses and children and take advantage of generous benefits.
The prosperous Scandinavian nation of 5.3 million people halted open immigration in 1973 but still allows relatives of immigrants and political asylum seekers to enter.
Both Social Democrats and Liberals have promised to tighten the immigration law. But while the ruling party wants to study the issue, the Liberals are calling for faster measures, including a seven-year waiting period before new arrivals would be able to tap into the country's cradle-to-grave welfare system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); REFUGEES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (65%); AGING (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; ELECTION RESULTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (93%)

PERSON: ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (79%) DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) DENMARK

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



760 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Battered by Sept. 11, Chinatown Economy Remains Crippled

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Chinatown has become a community of waiting.
 The waiting starts at 4:30 a.m., when lines form in front of the Mott Street center at which financial assistance is offered for those who lost work as a result of the World Trade Center attack. Some days, the crowds grow to nearly 1,000 people. Not uncommonly, they become unruly and frustrated by the lack of information. The police are called and the crowds scatter. 
 Many businesses and households are still waiting for their telephone service to return. Without a working line, Lam Fang Wang says, his gift store, Mott Street Gift Shop, can't take credit cards. "I lose a lot of money from customers who leave," he said, sighing. 
Garment factories are waiting to see how long it takes before they can no longer afford to pay their workers. Dozens of factories have closed. Others are working at half capacity because orders fell sharply when trucking restrictions were imposed downtown just after the attack. The garment industry, Chinatown's biggest employer with more than 10,000 workers, remains paralyzed.
While in much of New York the effects of the World Trade Center attack are no longer clearly visible, Chinatown is still reeling in many ways from the economic convulsions that flowed north and east from the disaster. With the garment industry and tourism suffering, and with restaurants and retailing in a slump, Chinatown is probably the hardest hit of any neighborhood outside of the red zone. Community leaders fear that this once-thriving 170-year-old neighborhood, a worldwide tourist attraction and home to 100,000 people, will be crippled and irrevocably harmed. 
Like all of Lower Manhattan, Chinatown is suffering from the steep drop of foot traffic from tourists and office workers. Parking at one of the area's largest garages, Chatham Parking, is down 70 percent, company officials say. A recent survey by local business leaders of 350 Chinatown businesses found that revenues were down 30 to 70 percent, depending on the industry. About 60 percent of businesses have already cut staff. Some businesses have started to shutter their doors. The only exceptions to the usually glum news have been video rental stores.
The unemployment lines in front of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association's community center have snaked down Mott Street and around the corner onto Canal Street. There are young mothers hugging brightly dressed children, cooks in food-stained white uniforms and white-haired women whose fingers are cracked from years of intensive sewing. In a community unaccustomed to asking for outside financial support, many find that they are running out of choices.
Don Lee, a member of Community Board 2, was frustrated and saddened by the desperation of many of those in line, so he helped work out a system to schedule appointments.
"People should have more dignity than to stand on a line like this," Mr. Lee said. Ultimately, though, the number of needy overwhelmed this effort, and crowds circled the center once again. 
From fruit stands to jewelry stores to garment factories, Chinatown's businesses need high volumes because they typically have low profit margins. Much business is done in cash, and today's proceeds often go to tomorrow's costs. Fixed costs are high because of the area's expensive rents. Even a slight drop in revenue can swing a business into the red. 
Jobs in Chinatown usually pay low wages. In other parts of the city, the average check for two weeks' loss in wages that Safe Horizon, a service organization known in Chinese as "safety line," has given out after the World Trade Center disaster is around $900, said Elizabeth McCarthy, vice president for research and planning at Safe Horizon. In Chinatown, the average is about half that. 
One unemployed garment factory worker, Yuan, had left his Brooklyn home at 5 a.m. to wait in line for unemployment aid at the Mott Street center one Saturday morning. Because of his documentation, he was eligible for only one week's pay. "One week is still $160," he said. "That is not so bad." 
Right after Sept. 11, orders dropped sharply, slamming an industry that was already suffering from the softening economy and years of exports of jobs to other countries. Trucking restrictions downtown limited the import of raw goods and the export of finished goods from Chinatown factories. Many workers, some of them illegal immigrants, did not want to pass police cordons to reach jobs in garment and other industries, Chinatown newspapers have reported. The bigger police presence has rattled illegal immigrants both north and south of Canal Street. 
The pain of the garment industry ripples through Chinatown's economy. Fewer women ride the $2 shuttle buses from their homes in Brooklyn to factories in Chinatown. Mei Wah Trinh, a fruit and vegetable vendor on Canal Street, says half of her regular customers, most of whom are garment workers, seldom come by anymore. "Sometimes they walk by and I call out to them, but they say they have no more work," she said. 
Officials and organizations are still figuring out how to provide relief. 
Often, there are problems that prevent those who have been affected from receiving aid. While more than half of the businesses citywide that have applied for disaster relief loans from the Small Business Administration are rejected, in Chinatown the rejection rate is even higher, business leaders in Chinatown say. 
Chinatown businesses say this is because few business owners qualify for the loans, since they are based in part on cash flow, which was down already, and ability to repay, which is hampered by the area's economic slowdown. Also, few business owners have the collateral to secure them. Business owners here and elsewhere are often asked to put up their homes as collateral for a $50,000 loan. 
A Chinatown accountant, Max Ng, says 80 percent of his clients' small business relief applications have been rejected, with the notices citing problems with cash flow and ability to repay.
To give some relief, several grant programs have been introduced for Lower Manhattan businesses, including one by New York State for retail businesses south of Houston Street that gives the owner three days' revenue. In the first week, 1,000 Chinatown businesses, about two-thirds of the applicants, applied for the grants.
The eligibility zone for many kinds of relief has been drawn at Canal Street. But the Canal Street boundary still leaves out the half of Chinatown north of the line, and all of Little Italy. "You don't decide need based on an arbitrary line," Mr. Lee said. "A line makes it easy for administration, but not for the people who have to suffer through the pain every day." 
Safe Horizon limits the money it provides to people who work south of Canal. "We had to draw the line somewhere, and Canal Street was the beginning of the frozen zone," Ms. McCarthy said. But only about 35 of Chinatown's 200-odd garment factories are south of Canal Street. 
Teddy Lai, executive director of the Greater Blouse, Skirt and Undergarment Association, gestured at a room full of people waiting to talk to caseworkers at the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association's offices. "There are still a lot of people who need help," he said. "This is only 35 factories. Can you imagine 200?" 
The Red Cross officially requires people to live or work south of Canal Street to qualify for aid, but Elaine Wagner, a spokeswoman, said the line is not "hard and fast." Aid is granted to people a block or two north if they demonstrate need, she said. 
Chinatown has traditionally been an insular community, and that insularity was magnified immediately after the attack with the truck restrictions and broadcasting interruptions, which resulted in a nearly complete Chinese-language news blackout on an event half a mile away. Because trucks could not reach the neighborhood, Chinese newspapers were brought in by hand truck and posted on walls or scalped for $4. Local leaders pleaded with the police to escort clandestine midnight deliveries of groceries because stores were running out of food. 
Despite the insularity, the community is feeling a need to reach out to the rest of the city for support with a louder, more public effort. Donations from Chinatown to Sept. 11 charities have reached $2 million. 
In the last few weeks, Chinatown businesses and officials have banded together to begin a "Welcome Back to Chinatown" campaign with full-page newspaper ads. They created a red, white and blue "Chinatown, U.S.A." logo. President Bush, Gov. George E. Pataki and Senator Charles E. Schumer have all made brief appearances. Also, in the last few days, Chinatown, Harlem and Little Italy have joined hands to encourage people to visit.
But some Chinatown residents are still gloomy, pointing to further ill effects from old problems like the closing of the Grand Street subway stop for repairs of the subway line this summer, as well as new problems like the security measures that are being put into effect in Lower Manhattan to protect neighboring government offices and courthouses. 
"I think there is a new vision of Chinatown coming, and we have no input into it," said Paul Lee, owner of 32 Mott Street General Store, one of the oldest businesses in Chinatown. "We definitely need to be heard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A drop in foot traffic, as here on Doyers Street, is one of the most visible signs of Chinatown's economic troubles. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Lines start to form at 4:30 a.m. in front of the Mott Street center at which financial assistance is offered for those who lost work as a result of the World Trade Center attack. Some days there are nearly 1,000 people. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); From fruit stands to jewelry stores to garment factories, Chinatown's businesses need high volumes because they typically have low profit margins. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (90%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); TOURISM (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (65%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



761 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: P & O and Royal Caribbean To Merge IntoLargest Cruise Line 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Two leading cruise lines announced a $2.89 billion deal today to combine, becoming the world's largest cruise ship company. 
 The two, P & O Princess Cruises of Britain and Royal Caribbean Cruises, which is based in Miami, said that a merger would extract profit from a market hurt by the attacks on Sept. 11 and dominated less and less by bookings from the very wealthy. 
 The cruise lines termed their deal a "merger of equals." The combined company -- with a "working title" of RCP Cruise Lines, according to Richard D. Fain, Royal Caribbean's chairman and chief executive -- would have 41 ships and 75,000 berths under joint management while maintaining separate stock market listings and dividend payments for investors. 
With a market value around $6 billion, the company would surpass Carnival of Miami as the world's biggest cruise ship company, analysts said.
The deal comes as vacation bookings slide and some travelers cancel plans in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. Immediately after the attacks, P & O Princess lost 8,000 bookings in two weeks and business dipped again after the beginning of military action in Afghanistan before beginning to recover, said Caroline Keppel-Palmer, a spokeswoman for the company.
Some cruise lines have been offering discounts and other promotions to attract passengers, particularly on cruises that require the traveler to fly to join their cruise ships.
But the impact on some smaller cruise lines has been devastating. Renaissance Cruises shut down operations and filed for bankruptcy protection two weeks after the attacks. American Classic Voyages filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in mid-October.
Still, Mr. Fain, who will maintain both of his current positions in the merged company, expressed optimism today. "We are suffering a bit from Sept. 11," he said, "but we expect the industry to continue to grow."
The merger also comes at a time when the top cruise lines are attracting business from a younger group than before. The average age of passengers on Royal Caribbean is 45, and the company is seeking to attract people earning $35,000 and up, Mr. Fain said. That market, he said, was "not upper crust."
P & O Princess's average passenger is slightly older, Ms. Keppel-Palmer, the company spokeswoman, said, and cruising is not as common a vacation among Britons. Last year, P & O Princess became an independent company after splitting away from the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company.
Some travel agents in the United States were optimistic that the merger would be beneficial. "The economies of scale should be beneficial to both companies, since they will be able to keep their costs down," said Greg DeClemente of Valerie Wilson Travel in New York. "And if they get their expenses down, consumers will continue to get good deals in the marketplace."
Under the deal, each Royal Caribbean share will be worth 3.46 shares in P & O Princess, owner of the Pacific Princess vessel used in the "Love Boat" television show. P & O Princess investors will hold 50.7 percent of the combined company, which will have its headquarters in Miami. Royal Caribbean shareholders will hold 49.3 percent.
The successor business will have a heavy debt load: the two companies' debt totaled more than $5 billion at the end of September.
Mr. Fain said that executives had been meeting secretly on Sept. 11 to work out the final details of the merger at his home in Coral Gables, Fla. "We had every TV in the house going," he recalled. "We were shocked, horrified. We didn't get much work done."
The deal, he indicated, would have gone ahead even without the slide in travel after the attacks. "We had started quite a bit before Sept. 11," he said in an interview. But he acknowledged that the decline thereafter "reinforced" the logic of an agreement to bring together what he called "very compatible companies, very compatible fleets."
The two companies run cruises in a wide-ranging area that includes Alaska and the Caribbean, with operations in the United States, Britain, Germany and Australia.
Apart from their existing fleets, Royal Caribbean has six ships on order with 14,600 berths. P & O Princess has eight ships with 17,250 berths on order. The new vessels would increase their combined capacity by 2005 to 105,000 berths.
"This is an industry with lots and lots of spare capacity," said Amanda Forsyth, an analyst with Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh. "What they are hoping to do is to build capacity to corner the market, and whatever growth there is in the business going forward. The whole issue is whether they can attract more business as a combined entity."
Larry Norman, president of Vacation and Cruise Resources, a Miami-based company that provides cruise marketing support to the travel industry, said the merger should mean that the combined company would continue to order new ships built. "New ships and low prices should attract them," he said.
Shares in both P & O Princess and Royal Caribbean surged today. In London, P & O Princess rose 16 percent to $:3.6875, or $5.23, while Royal Caribbean shares rose $1.09, or more than 7 percent, to $16.10 in New York. The two companies forecast annual savings from the deal of $100 million, starting in 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Royal Caribbean's new ship, Adventure of the Seas, at a pier in Manhattan. The line's planned merger with P & O Princess is expected to increase orders for new ships. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Peter Ratcliffe, left, P & O's chief, and Richard D. Fain, head of Royal Caribbean, in London yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (99%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (94%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MERGERS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); DIVIDENDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CLOSINGS (64%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (84%); ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: P&O CRUISES; ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD 

TICKER: RCL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (84%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (84%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (58%) SIC4481 DEEP SEA PASSENGER; 

PERSON: FAIN, RICHARD D; COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



762 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
As Nets Rise, Kidd Seeks Promotion

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS 

 BODY:
The Nets are 7-3, even after two consecutive losses, and the consensus within the organization and throughout the league is that Jason Kidd is the primary reason for the team's surprisingly strong start.
 Kidd, who came in an off-season trade from Phoenix for Stephon Marbury, has established himself over the first three weeks of the regular season as the chief catalyst for the Nets' revival. 
 And yet, before the Nets left Sunday on a West Coast trip, Kidd and his agent, Jeff Schwartz, expressed concern that neither Kidd nor his teammates were being sufficiently recognized by fans in the New York metropolitan area.
While both emphasized that it was still very early in the season, they wondered whether the organization's strategy of not promoting individual players has had an effect on attendance in the first six home games at Continental Arena, a league-worst average of 9,857. 
The Nets' approach to promotion could also affect Kidd's decision whether to remain in New Jersey when his contract is up in 2003.
"There are a lot of things that will be a part of it, and that will be one of them," Kidd said. "How are they going to market the team? And not just myself. They'll have other guys coming up here shortly -- free agents -- so you got to play the game.
"When a product is hot, you got to be able to package it as much as you can, because you never know how hot or cold it will be. They've probably experienced the cold side, but we're in the biggest market and you got to take advantage of that."
The Nets traded for Kidd in July. But there have been no billboards featuring his image, and there is no marketing campaign designed specifically around Kidd, who is the only four-time All-Star to play for the Nets. 
Schwartz said he has had preliminary discussions with the Nets' management and is taking a wait-and-see attitude, because the season is still so young. "Obviously, in building for the future, Jason is the foundation," Schwartz said. "If you want the ability to keep this team together, then hopefully they will do certain things to make that happen."
The Nets have paid for billboards, but the ads display only the Nets' logo, often next to those of their corporate partners, the Devils and Yankees, with a phone number for tickets. The cover of the Nets' media guide shows only a player's torso. The folds of the jersey reveal the top of the player's uniform number, 5, which is the only clue that the player is Kidd.
The Nets' new chief executive, Lou Lamoriello, who has also run the Devils for years, believes adamantly in not promoting individual stars. 
Lamoriello has also imposed this team-only attitude in the Nets' offices, where employees have been told to tone down their work space by removing personal items and to adhere to a more formal dress code. 
"Right now, what we're doing is what Jason is all about: it's about team," Lamoriello said. 
Lamoriello said he was not concerned that Kidd would consider marketing a factor in his decision on whether to stay in New Jersey when his contract expires. Lamoriello describes his advertising philosophy as old school, saying that "when you put dollars into something, you have to get something in return."
"You cannot get any more recognition than what's been given to Jason," he said. "We're all about winning, and through that the individuals will get the recognition."
Kidd, who is averaging 12.1 points, 9.9 assists and 7.1 rebounds a game, insists that he does not want to be a focal point. But Kidd, 28, is also known as a fierce and savvy competitor, and that attitude extends to the corporate world, as well. He knows that the N.B.A. is personality driven.
"With hockey and basketball, those are two different sports that generate two different products and economics," Kidd said. "One is a lot bigger than the other. You can't run a parallel."
While the Nets began the season with a burst of success, fans have seemed reluctant to buy in quickly, Lamoriello said, perhaps because they are still soured on the unfulfilled promise of seasons past. Winning will ultimately be what lures fans back, he said.
The size of the crowds at Continental Arena grew significantly for the Nets' game against the Knicks last Friday and for a game the next night against Allen Iverson and the Philadelphia 76ers. The Nets drew an average of 16,478 for those games. But what will happen when the Nets return from their road trip next week, perhaps not quite as hot, and play the hapless Chicago Bulls next Tuesday? 
Nets Coach Byron Scott, admittedly concerned only with what takes place on the court, did see a point in generating more fan interest and said that Kidd could be the one to do it. 
"They could promote Jason a little more, that's about it," Scott said. "I think we've done everything on the court. I know that we're not big into promoting things. But he's the one guy we all know who's proven and that's definitely been a guy you can market. But again, it's still real early."
It is early for Schwartz and Kidd, too. Kidd suggested that he and the Nets do not have to wait for his contract to expire to negotiate a new one. "We can solve it a little earlier than two years, next summer maybe," he said. He will be paid $17.6 million over the next two years, with a player option for $10.4 million in 2003. 
"They might have to court my wife more than me," he said with a laugh. "The big thing is: Is my family happy? My wife and my kids, are they going to be happy?
"We'll see what happens. There's a lot of things that need to maybe be looked upon, not just so much marketing, but for making it a family-friendly atmosphere. That's what the game is supposed to be. People need to be able to interact and recognize their team. It's not just me, but Keith or Kenyon, Kerry, that makes people want to come to the game," Kidd said, referring to his teammates Keith Van Horn, Kenyon Martin and Kerry Kittles. 
"Right now, my job is to win ballgames. I think if we win, everything will take care of itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Kidd, left, who is averaging 12.1 points and 9.9 assists, has led the Nets to a 7-3 start. (Reuters); Who's that on the cover of the Nets' media guide? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%) NEW JERSEY NETS 

PERSON: JEFFREY H SCHWARTZ (89%) ROBBINS, LIZ; KIDD, JASON; SCHWARTZ, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



763 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CHARITIES; 
Outpouring for Sept. 11 Groups Means Less for Food Banks

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., Nov. 20 

 BODY:
It has become a Thanksgiving tradition among the poor to come to the soup kitchen at Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church here for free turkeys to take home to their families. 
 But this Thanksgiving, supporters of the program have donated only about half as many turkeys as in recent years. Instead of 40 or so turkeys, the church received only 20, and they have all been given away by now to some needy families. Everyone else has been invited to a Thanksgiving dinner at the church. 
 "I wish there was enough to go around," said Roberta Apuzzo, the executive director of Community Service Associates, a nonprofit group that operates the church soup kitchen. "After what happened on Sept. 11, I think we need tradition more than ever."
The terrorist attacks have meant that many soup kitchens, food pantries and local charities throughout the New York region are entering the holiday season with fewer food and cash donations on hand than usual. The groups say that they have been hurt by "donor fatigue," because people who made charitable donations in response to the attacks now have much less for local charities, especially during a drop in the economy.
Interviews with food pantries and soup kitchens around the region indicate that several are forgoing the free turkeys for Thanksgiving, and many others are warning that they may have to eliminate year-round meal programs and other services for the poor if things do not improve. In an effort to cope, groups are trying to step up fund-raising, stretch existing resources, and remind people that it is not just the families of Sept. 11 victims who are in need this holiday season.
Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, said some of the city's 1,000 soup kitchens and food pantries had reported turning away hungry people more often since Sept. 11. "The people on the front lines in the fight against hunger don't have the resources to do their jobs," he said. "As a result, more people are going hungry in the richest city in the richest country in the history of the world." 
Although not every charity has been affected, many of the largest food organizations in New York and New Jersey say they have fallen far short in canned goods and checks as well as turkeys. The severity of the situation may not become clear until early next year because many groups receive most of their donations between now and year's end.
Food for Survival, a nonprofit food bank in New York City that supplies 1,200 low-income programs, said it had received $79,154 from individual donors in September and October, a 38.3 percent decrease from the $128,337 collected during the comparable period last year. "That's a very big decline," said Lucy Cabrera, president of the food bank. "We can only guess that the reason for it is that the donations went to the disaster relief."
An annual turkey drive organized by the Community Food Bank of New Jersey, which is located outside Newark, brought in 2,200 donated turkeys this year, 1,800 fewer than expected. In addition, several companies that had asked their employees to donate turkeys in the past did not do so this year because of layoffs and other economic considerations. The companies that did make the request brought in an average of 20 turkeys each, a fifth of last year's average.
Meara Nigro, a spokeswoman for the food bank, said her organization had used cash reserves to buy more turkeys but was still 1,100 short of the 10,580 turkeys that have been requested by food pantries and other groups for Thanksgiving. In some cases, the food bank plans to distribute sliced turkey breast left over from donations to the World Trade Center relief efforts.
The Community Food Bank also delayed the start of its annual food-donation effort at supermarket checkout counters to avoid competing with a similar campaign by the Red Cross. 
Ms. Nigro said donor fatigue was not the only reason that charitable giving was down this year. Criticism of the Red Cross for its handling of disaster relief has also had an effect, she said. "People feel a lot of suspicion toward all charities right now," she said. "All of the smaller charities are being hurt by that."
The Westchester Coalition for the Hungry and the Homeless canceled an annual fund-raising dinner in October because it did not seem appropriate so soon after the terrorist attacks. The dinner, which was not rescheduled, usually raises about $100,000, a third of the coalition's total donations. 
Rosa W. Boone, the coalition's executive director, said she had tried to make up some of that money through a "stay-at-home dinner" campaign, in which donors give the money that they would normally spend on a restaurant meal. It has raised only $10,000 so far, but Ms. Boone remains optimistic. "I'm definitely short," she said. "I'm hoping that my next letter will touch the hearts of those who have given before."
The decline in donations has been particularly hard on small organizations with limited budgets. Betsy Wiltse, program administrator for the Sullivan County Federation for the Homeless in Monticello, N.Y., said food donations had tapered off by 40 to 50 percent. Her group's soup kitchen received 20 donated turkeys this year, not 50 as usual. 
"This is not a wealthy area," she said. "So when there's that big of a tap into those kinds of resources for a world disaster, local people end up feeling the pinch."
At Sacred Heart Church, Ms. Apuzzo sent out her annual appeal letter in September, two months earlier than usual, but has received only about $3,000 in donations. Last year, she had already raised $9,000 by Thanksgiving. If donations do not pick up, she said she might have to cut back on meals. 
Ms. Apuzzo was still scrounging around for one last turkey tonight for a woman who has been coming to her soup kitchen for four years. She finally found one, and handed it over with holiday wishes. 
The woman, Bobbi Davis, said she planned to cook the turkey for her two young daughters. "I've grown up all my life with a turkey on the table," she said. "My mom said always have your own turkey. It's the spirit of it. You know you're not too poor to have it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shelton Robertson and Lucille Peffers at the soup kitchen in Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church in Mount Vernon, N.Y., yesterday. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (93%); CHARITIES (92%); THANKSGIVING (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



764 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Says Budget Falls Short by $1.9 Billion 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
After an intensive two-week review of New Jersey's fiscal condition, Governor-elect James E. McGreevey warned today that the state faced a shortfall of $1.9 billion in its current $24 billion budget, far larger than had been anticipated. He also forecast a deficit of $3.7 billion in the next fiscal year.
 At a news conference in his transition offices near the State House this afternoon, Mr. McGreevey urged Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco and the State Legislature to refrain from any new nonessential spending through the end of the year. 
 "It is incumbent upon the State Legislature and the acting governor to absolutely freeze spending," Mr. McGreevey said, accompanied by Anthony R. Coscia, who is directing budget operations for his transition team. "Every dollar spent will only place New Jersey in harm's way."
But Mr. DiFrancesco and his fellow Republicans who control the Legislature would seem to have little political motivation to heed the pleas of Mr. McGreevey, a Democrat. Mr. DiFrancesco's spokesman, Tom Wilson, said Mr. McGreevey was exaggerating the problem while not offering solutions. 
"To say the sky is falling yet not provide any umbrella, that's not what being a governor is all about," Mr. Wilson said. "And he knows that." Mr. Wilson acknowledged that tax revenues had decreased, but he called Mr. McGreevey's estimates of the budget gaps "very pessimistic." 
Mr. Wilson said the DiFrancesco administration was willing to work with the governor-elect on any specific concerns that were raised. "On a case-by-case basis, if he wants to bring forward specific recommendations for specific freezes or cuts, we'll work with him," Mr. Wilson said. 
By law, the New Jersey budget must be balanced and the governor, before presenting his spending plan, must show that there are sufficient revenues to cover proposed spending. The state budget signed by Mr. DiFrancesco in July totaled about $23 billion in spending and included a $1 billion surplus. But even earlier, state officials were warning of a looming shortfall because of reduced tax revenues, and estimates of the gap reached as high as $1.2 billion in recent weeks.
At his news conference today, Mr. McGreevey vowed to balance the budget without raising taxes. "We are not going to increase taxes," he said. "We're going to cut government. We are going to live within our means." 
At the conference, he agreed with a suggestion that current circumstances seemed eerily similar to the situation that Gov. Jim Florio faced when he took office in 1990. Mr. Florio raised taxes, and furious voters tossed him out of office after one term. "I'm hoping for a different ending," Mr. McGreevey said, laughing. 
But after the news conference, Mr. McGreevey was speechless and his face turned red when he was asked what motivations the Republicans might have to do anything other than leave him with a big budget hole to fill. "Excellent question," he said, adding that he hoped the Republicans understood "the gravity of the circumstances." 
Mr. McGreevey also renewed his request today that the DiFrancesco administration officially recertify revenues, to provide a clear and updated portrait of tax receipts. Mr. Wilson, the acting governor's spokesman, said that the administration could not comply with the request because economic conditions were too unpredictable. 
For example, Mr. Wilson cited recent increases in both the total number of jobs in New Jersey and in the number of people who are filing first-time unemployment claims, an unusual confluence of the layoffs resulting from the struggling economy and the jobs that have moved to New Jersey from Lower Manhattan since Sept. 11. 
"The science isn't there right now to tell us, 'This is the number,' " Mr. Wilson said, adding: "Anything that you are going to get right now is an educated guess. And frankly, we need more than an educated guess to recertify revenues." 
Mr. McGreevey stressed that the most significant decreases were a result of income tax receipts that were lower than expected.
Independent budget analysts said that Mr. McGreevey's projections seemed plausible. "I would say it could almost be at the midpoint of a reasonable range as far as things look now," said Alan R. Kooney, the budget and finance officer for the State Office of Legislative Services, which does fiscal analysis for the Legislature.
Mr. Kooney said that his office had not done any formal projections since the state budget was approved in July and that it was virtually impossible to make specific predictions about how the fiscal year would end. But he said monthly revenue reports showed a steady decrease in tax receipts throughout this year. 
"So far the revenues are pretty anemic," Mr. Kooney said. 
But he and other experts said that Mr. McGreevey's projections did not account for a number of factors, including a national increase in retail spending during October. State sales tax receipts for October were due on Tuesday, and it will take several weeks to know if there was an increase to match the national trend. 
Senator John O. Bennett, the Republican majority leader, said he believed that Mr. McGreevey's estimates might be unduly grim. "I don't believe that his crystal ball is necessarily totally accurate," he said. Mr. Bennett noted that car sales were up 25 percent in October and that they account for a quarter of sales tax revenues. 
Mr. Bennett said Republicans were not out to sabotage Mr. McGreevey. "We are responsible elected officials," he said. "We intend to leave him a healthy surplus in the budget." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



765 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
EASTMAN CHEMICAL POSTPONES ITS PLAN TO SPLIT IN TWO

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The Eastman Chemical Company, citing declining market conditions, said yesterday that it had postponed a plan to split itself into two companies at year's end. Eastman, the chemical, fibers and plastics manufacturer based in Kingsport, Tenn., said that because of the weak economy and "a lack of clear signals for near-term recovery," its management recommended delaying the spinoff, and said it would reassess the plan in mid-2002. The company planned to split into the Voridian Company, which would take the PET plastics and fibers business, and the Eastman Company, with the specialty chemicals business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (91%); CHEMICALS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (88%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (88%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (87%); PLASTICS (87%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS (86%); POLYETHYLENE TEREPHTHALATE (86%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO (97%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN CHEMICAL CO 

TICKER: EMN (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (97%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (97%) SIC2819 OTHER INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



766 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Sept. 11 Aid for Small Companies 

BYLINE:  By Edward Wyatt (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 A business and civic group awarded $650,000 in grants and other aid to 14 small businesses in Lower Manhattan yesterday. The aid is part of a $7 million program to assist retailers and manufacturers harmed by the attack on the World Trade Center. The Lower Manhattan Small Business and Workforce Retention Project offers grants of up to $25,000, low-interest loans of up to $100,000 and payments to subsidize up to 50 percent of some employees' wages. Eligible businesses are those south of Canal Street with no more than 50 employees. The project's sponsors include the Alliance for Downtown New York, Seedco, Asian Americans for Equality and the Henry Street Settlement.
 Edward Wyatt (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RETAILERS (87%); LABOR FORCE (87%); HIJACKING (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); TERRORISM (85%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; SMALL BUSINESS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN SMALL BUSINESS AND WORLDFORCE RETENTION PROJECT 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



767 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Possible Compromise On Recovery Plan 

BYLINE:  By Richard W. Stevenson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said he was encouraged by a compromise economic recovery package by a bipartisan group of senators. 
His comments suggested hope for an end to an impasse on the issue in Congress. The plan calls for $75 billion in tax cuts and new spending in the coming year, including tax breaks for businesses to invest in new equipment and extension of unemployment benefits. Richard W. Stevenson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); TAX LAW (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



768 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: New Doubts on Enron's India Investment 

BYLINE:  By SARITHA RAI 

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The fate of the single largest foreign investment in India, the $2.9 billion Dabhol Power project, has been thrown into new uncertainty by the financial meltdown and pending takeover of its majority owner, the Enron Corporation of the United States.
 Dynegy, the smaller rival that has agreed to acquire the once-mighty Enron, has said it will focus narrowly on Enron's core energy trading and pipeline businesses and sell other assets. Enron's 70 percent stake in Dabhol is high on the sales list. 
 But the company's bargaining leverage, already eroded by a bitter, ruinous dispute with the project's only customer, is weaker than ever. "Now that the sale of Dabhol is a certainty, the aggressive Enron may be forced to adopt a pragmatic approach during the negotiations," said K. Ravi, a utility analyst with the consulting firm of Frost & Sullivan.
Dabhol Power's 2,184 megawatts of generating capacity was the showpiece of an economic liberalization drive in the early 1990's. But Enron has had repeated conflicts with politicians and environmentalists over the project. Earlier this year, the Maharashtra state utility, which has a contract to buy all of Dabhol's output, complained that the prices were too high and stopped paying its bills, running up $64 million in arrears before the power was cut off and the plant shut down.
Enron raised the stakes in the dispute by serving notice that it would terminate the contract and pull out of the project. But a group of Indian state-owned banks and financial institutions, with $1.4 billion committed to the project, countered with challenges to asset sales by Dabhol and with other legal obstacles. Earlier this month, a court ordered Dabhol not to send the utility a final termination notice until Dec. 3.
Initially Enron adopted a tough posture over the sale of Dabhol. Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman and chief executive and a close friend of President Bush, was quoted as saying that India would have to face economic sanctions if the government did not create a favorable climate for the sale of Enron's stake.
But Enron now will find little lobbying traction in either Washington or New Delhi, and the coalition-building diplomacy of the war in Afghanistan makes it unlikely that the Bush administration would agree to press India on Enron's behalf. 
In September, the asking price for Enron's stake in Dabhol Power was said to be over $1 billion. But the two serious Indian bidders -- Tata Power and BSES, both privately owned utilities backed by major industrial concerns here -- are reportedly willing to pay only about half that.
If the lenders and prospective buyers adopt a take-it-or-leave-it line, Enron may have little choice but to accept their offer and swallow a huge loss on a controversial project that once gleamed with promise. "It is bound to be a distress sale," one bank official said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in World Business yesterdayabout the Enron Corporation's prospects for selling its interest in the Dabhol Power project in India misstated the size of its stake. It is 65 percent, not 70.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A pier under construction earlier this year at the Dabhol Power project south of Bombay. The troubled Enron Corporation is trying to sell its majority stake in Dabhol, the single largest foreign investment in India. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); POLITICS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (57%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); DYNEGY INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: DABHOL POWER CO; ENRON CORP; DYNEGY INC 

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) RAI, SARITHA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (73%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (76%) INDIA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



769 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Conoco Plays Security Card In Promoting Its Merger

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
As he leads the cheers for his company's planned merger with Phillips Petroleum, the chairman of Conoco, Archie W. Dunham, has added a new rationale for the deal that would probably not have been mentioned before Sept. 11: energy security.
 Mr. Dunham at first cited the usual reasons for the union of Conoco and Phillips, like enhancing shareholder value and improving competitiveness. But in recent statements about the merger, which would create the world's sixth-largest oil concern, Mr. Dunham has highlighted the fact that the combined company would have more than 70 percent of its oil and gas reserves in the North Sea and North America, regions free of the political risks in the petroleum-rich Persian Gulf area. 
 "This is good for the United States," Mr. Dunham said during a conference call on Monday. "It's good for energy security."
The stance is somewhat unusual for Conoco, which, after all, has historically been a trailblazer, entering countries where there is plenty of political risk while other companies held back. It has led the effort to repeal the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act, which prohibits American companies from investing in those countries, paving the way for European and Asian oil conglomerates to develop some of the best oil and gas fields in the world. 
Industry analysts said Mr. Dunham's comments did not mean Conoco was abandoning the campaign to repeal sanctions or its interest in natural gas projects in places like Saudi Arabia and Indonesia. The language is aimed at regulators, politicians and the broader public, the analysts said, to persuade them to support the merger.
"By tying the merger to a timely issue, one that the public is very sympathetic to, Conoco hopes to get the merger through the regulatory process with a minimum of pain," said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation.
Pain would mean the kind of forced divestitures of important assets that the government required when it approved the mergers of Exxon and Mobil and of BP and the Atlantic Richfield Company. It is not clear, in fact, whether the businesses of Conoco and Phillips overlap enough to require selling assets. But highlighting the merger's contribution to national security does not hurt.
"They're buying insurance at no premium by tapping a sensitive vein," Mr. Goldstein said. "So why not throw it out there?"
Could the flag-waving be undermined by Conoco's efforts to have sanctions against Iran and Libya lifted? At first glance, it may appear so, given the years both countries have spent on terrorism watch lists.
But Iran and the United States over the last several years have been edging closer to each other as moderates led by President Mohammed Khattami of Iran to try to reform the country. Easing sanctions would give a boost to Mr. Khattami, industry analysts said. And the entry of United States companies into the country might increase the global oil supply.
"If you lift sanctions, you will see more oil production in the long term," said Cyrus Tahmassebi, president of Energy Trends Inc., a Washington consulting firm, "and that means crude oil prices will go down."
Conoco, for its part, had been doing business in Libya for 47 years, most recently as part of a consortium pumping 500,000 barrels of oil a day, until sanctions imposed by the Reagan administration in 1986 forced its departure. In Iran, it was poised to become the first company to work with the government until sanctions passed in 1995 under the Clinton administration annulled a contract the company had reached to develop offshore gas deposits. The contract went instead to the French company, Total.
"These are truly strategic assets in the petroleum world," said Mike Stinson, senior vice president for government affairs at Conoco, explaining his company's interest, "and important for the long-term energy supply of the United States."
The American government, however slowly, may be coming around to that notion of energy security, too, and Conoco these days is the most hopeful it has been in years that the prohibitions might be eased somewhat. 
"We've been encouraged in the last couple of months," Mr. Stinson said about the relationship between Iran and the United States. "We see evidence of things going on, like very quiet government-to-government talks about the issues that are separating us. If they succeed, we have a bright future." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (88%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); HIJACKING (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (96%); BP PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: CONOCO INC; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO 

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (96%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (96%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (96%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (96%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; DUNHAM, ARCHIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTH SEA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GULF STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); LIBYA; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



770 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Microsoft Aims To Settle Suits By Equipping 12,500 Schools

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Microsoft filed a proposal in federal court yesterday that could remove another of its legal headaches: more than 100 class-action antitrust suits contending that it overcharged consumers. The proposed deal is an innovative approach because the proceeds would not go to the customers who say they were overcharged but to more than 12,500 schools in low-income neighborhoods around the country.
 Under the terms of the deal, Microsoft would be required to provide cash, training and support to help put computing services into disadvantaged schools with nearly seven million students. The five-year program would cost Microsoft at least $550 million and possibly far more. The deal is championed by a pair of leading class-action lawyers, Stanley M. Chesley of Cincinnati and Michael D. Hausfeld of Washington. 
 The plaintiffs' lawyers behind the settlement and executives of Microsoft hailed the proposed deal as an inventive way to end costly litigation while helping to narrow the "digital divide." 
But the settlement plan faces resistance from some lawyers in California who say they represent 13 million overcharged personal computer users in their state. 
The California lawyers will oppose the settlement in court next Tuesday. They say that the deal is cleverly altruistic, but that its main beneficiary would be Microsoft. The cost would be tiny compared with Microsoft's potential liability, they contend. And the nearly unlimited donations of Microsoft software to eligible schools, they add, would serve to create an even larger market in the future for the company's products because students would be introduced to computing by using Microsoft products, like Windows, Word and Excel.
"With this settlement, Microsoft gets off dirt-cheap," said Eugene Crew, a partner of Townsend & Townsend & Crew, a law firm in San Francisco, "and it helps Microsoft perpetuate its monopoly."
In the federal court in Baltimore where the Microsoft class-action cases are being considered, Mr. Crew will present next week the analysis of Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, an economist at the University of Michigan who estimates that class members in California alone suffered damages of $3 billion to $9 billion from 1994 to 1999. Nationally, the overcharges by Microsoft were $15 billion to more than $40 billion, according to the economic estimate.
Mr. Crew said he hoped to persuade Judge J. Frederick Motz of Federal District Court in Baltimore to reject the proposed settlement. If not, he added, "our case is still alive" in a California Superior Court.
Yet the proposed settlement, some details of which were first reported yesterday in The Wall Street Journal, promises a stream of money and technology to schools and would probably have great appeal. The plaintiffs' lawyers backing the settlement will present a economist who is a Nobel laureate to defend the wisdom of their approach: Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor at Columbia University.
Microsoft lawyers said they expected some opposition to the settlement. But if Judge Motz approves the pact, they said, they expect the remaining suits in state courts to fade.
Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, said that the settlement would "avoid long and costly litigation for the company and really make a difference in the lives of children in some of America's most disadvantaged school districts."
The proposed class-action settlement comes a few weeks after the Justice Department and half of the 18 states suing Microsoft agreed to a settlement in the federal antitrust case. Mr. Ballmer said he was optimistic that the remaining state attorneys general would join in this season of settlement.
The plaintiffs' lawyers who engineered the settlement said they had taken the approach of a donation to schools after determining that each individual member of the class might get $10 or so after all administrative and legal fees had been paid. "It was really a matter of practicalities," said Mr. Hausfeld, a partner in Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld & Toll.
So what had been a "public benefit" provision in early rounds of negotiations eight months ago became the foundation of the settlement.
"We have provided a major solution to the digital divide in our country," said Mr. Chesley, a partner at Waite, Schneider, Bayless & Chesley. 
Under the settlement plan, Microsoft would help set up a national foundation that would give grants to schools to purchase computers and software. Microsoft would begin the foundation with $150 million in cash and would provide up to an additional $100 million if those funds were matched by other donors. Two of the foundation's five board members would be selected by the plaintiffs' lawyers, two by Microsoft and one by the court.
Microsoft would also supply $160 million for a technical support fund overseen by the foundation to help schools use the computer hardware and software, and it would provide $90 million to train teachers and administrators.
The company would also establish a computer refurbishment plan that would make 200,000 computers -- both Windows and Macintosh computers -- available to schools each year for five years. Each refurbished machine would cost a school no more than $50.
Microsoft would also donate software upon request to eligible schools, from kindergarten through high school. Based on Microsoft's standard prices for schools, the value of the software could exceed $500 million, according to the company.
Because the grants could be used for Macintoshes and competing software, Microsoft said, the settlement would not be intended to give the company an even greater advantage in the marketplace. Microsoft does make a lot of software that runs on Macintosh machines, including the Office programs and much of its Magic School Bus software. 
The liberal software donation program would certainly tend to favor Microsoft. An Apple spokeswoman had no comment on the proposal.
Adding in its estimated value of donated software, Microsoft put the value of the settlement at more than $1 billion. But if the court approved the agreement, the company would take a $550 million pretax charge against earnings this quarter. After taxes, the charge would be $375 million, or less than 7 cents a share.
The schools eligible for aid from the settlement would be those in which 70 percent of the students qualify for federal free-lunch programs; that would cover about 14 percent of the students in public schools. The beneficiaries would be in all 50 states. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TOWNSEND & TOWNSEND & CREW LLP (81%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; CHESLEY, STANLEY M; HAUSFIELD, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



771 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: In This Company's Struggle, God Has Many Proxies 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: DOWNERS GROVE, Ill. 

 BODY:
At the ServiceMaster Corporation, the forces of God and Mammon are in a tug of war.
 The company, founded in 1947 by an evangelical Baptist, has long declared that its primary mission is "to honor God in all we do." But with profits slumping, the stock price tumbling and big investors up in arms, ServiceMaster has brought in its first chief executive from outside the evangelical fold. And analysts and associates say he will probably soon move to play down the strong emphasis on Christianity. 
 The new chief, Jonathan P. Ward, a former R. R. Donnelley & Sons executive, is walking a corporate minefield, trying to stay true to ServiceMaster's tradition and yet assume the role of reformer at a company that many analysts say became too big and lazy. 
For decades, God and profits seemed to mix well in a potent alchemy that transformed the small Midwestern concern into a $6 billion Fortune 500 company that did well by doing good on everything from Merry Maids house cleaning to Terminix pest control and TruGreen lawn care.
Mr. Ward, who took charge in January, is treading carefully. He calls meetings to order by quoting the book of Isaiah, but he is also heeding calls to change corporate priorities. "He made it clear that his first principle is to increase shareholder value," said John Miller, an assistant portfolio manager at Ariel Capital Management, a large shareholder.
No one is attributing the company's woes solely to its religious orientation; indeed, though religion might be a distraction from focusing on improving ServiceMaster's financial situation, it might be an asset in other ways, like fostering a strong work ethic. And other culprits exist: an expansion that was too rapid and a weak, in-bred leadership lead the list.
Changing ServiceMaster's religious orientation, if that proves necessary, will not be easy. An 11-foot statue of Jesus washing the feet of a disciple sits outside the headquarters here in suburban Chicago. Inside, employees often gather for Bible studies. The motto "We Serve" has decidedly divine implications, annual reports are peppered with Scripture, and stockholder meetings begin with prayer.
The distinct culture does not stop there. Offices are enclosed in glass to create a sense of openness, and a John Philip Sousa march is regularly piped through the building after a big sale.
As long as employees can remember, pleasing shareholders has trailed behind other objectives. The corporate goals -- chiseled, like the Ten Commandments, into a stone tablet at the building's entrance -- rank "To grow profitably" a few notches down from "To help people develop" and "To pursue excellence."
In flush times, no one questioned those priorities. But now Mr. Ward is re-examining the whole company.
His first move was bold. In October, to trim a mounting debt load, Mr. Ward sold the giant management services division, with $1.9 billion in revenue, to the Aramark Corporation for $800 million in cash.
As part of the deal, the company also sold Aramark its Downers Grove headquarters, which has been as much a shrine to the founding principles as an office and training center. The company plans to have a smaller headquarters near Chicago and to move the statue of Jesus to the Memphis office.
Mr. Ward and the board say the moves do not signal a shift away from the company's roots. But some employees suspect that things are about to change.
"I don't know how you can believe that they're not throwing out the old stuff and the old ways," said one longtime executive, who insisted on anonymity. "For God sakes, they're moving Jesus to Memphis."
That may be the least of it. After years of gobbling up companies, ServiceMaster is narrowing its focus to selling house-cleaning and lawn-care services to residential customers -- to focus on "our best opportunity," as Mr. Ward told employees.
The company recently bought the Sears pest control business, adding bulk to its Terminix division in the United States. But the Terminix unit in Europe is gone, and ServiceMaster said it would also exit the landscaping business.
To truly remake ServiceMaster, though, Mr. Ward must decide how to manage a company with its own peculiar history and culture. 
ServiceMaster was founded by Marion E. Wade, who started off in the moth-proofing and rug-cleaning business in the Depression. After he nearly went blind in a chemical accident in 1944, he dedicated himself to the Lord. Mr. Wade, who died in 1973, asserted that running a profitable business was not inconsistent with serving this master. The notion of using the Bible as a guide was spelled out in his book, "The Lord Is My Counsel," which for decades was given to every new manager.
Over the years, many employees joined ServiceMaster because it was perceived as Christian; its management was deemed honest and ethical. (Though the original company was heavily evangelical, the company says it does not discriminate in its hiring.)
Since 1983, however, the company has largely been shaped by C. William Pollard, who as chief executive transformed ServiceMaster with modern management techniques and an aggressive acquisition strategy.
Mr. Pollard, a former lawyer and a Christian, won praise for turning an $800 million company into a $6 billion enterprise. And he wrote a best-selling book, "The Soul of the Firm," that offered his own theories about mixing God and profits.
Under his leadership, ServiceMaster thrived. It was listed among the top service companies in a Fortune survey in 1989. In 1998, The Financial Times called it one of the world's most respected companies.
"This was a great growth machine," said Alexander Paris Jr., an analyst at Barrington Research Associates. "Throughout the 90's, they had compound annual sales growth of 12 percent and net earnings growth of 19 percent."
But ServiceMaster also operated as a family-run company. Mr. Pollard handpicked directors and top managers, and an unusually large number of his choices were family members, friends and graduates of Wheaton College. Wheaton, an evangelical institution in Illinois, counts Billy Graham among its graduates and has a Billy Graham Center and a Marion Wade Center on campus. The company's ties to Wheaton are so strong that franchise owners joke about waiting till summer, when its students are free, to hire extra help.
Mr. Pollard's brother-in-law serves on ServiceMaster's board; his son-in-law is a top executive; a former law partner was general counsel; and one of Mr. Pollard's former Sunday School students is president of the huge management services division. 
The company's board is equally close. Mr. Pollard, who is now the chairman of ServiceMaster, and another director are trustees of Wheaton College; six directors are Wheaton graduates; three directors, including Mr. Pollard, helped form the Avodah Institute, a nonprofit company that lists its home as the ServiceMaster headquarters; and several other directors on the ServiceMaster board are relatives of former executives.
"I can understand the criticism of our board, but before growth slowed nobody raised that question," Mr. Pollard said in an interview.
For an outsider like Mr. Ward, taking control of a complicated culture is not the only problem. The company was weakened by an acquisition spree in 1998 and 1999, when ServiceMaster bought LandCare USA and American Residential Services, helping to saddle the company with $1.7 billion in debt.
"They got lazy and tried to buy growth," said Adam Waldo, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
Other problems were brewing. Management services -- running food, janitorial and other services for hospitals and school systems -- were struggling.
In 1999, for the first time in nearly three decades, profit retreated, dropping to $174 million from $190 million in 1998. And the stock, which peaked at $25 a share in 1998, fell to $8 in late 2000, wiping out $5 billion in market value. It has since risen, and in trading on Tuesday it closed at $11.93, up 3 cents.
Several analysts complained that Mr. Pollard, now 63, had lost his touch and his enthusiasm for the job. Among other things, they said he was too busy with philanthropic and charity work tied to the company's foundation and other groups.
By the time Mr. Ward arrived in January, debt had ballooned to nearly $2 billion, and ServiceMaster faced cutting its dividend or watching its debt rating drop to junk bond status. Instead, it sold its management services division.
Some shareholders complained that the company lacked a strong leader and was reluctant to resort to layoffs.
"It wasn't just a couple of bad acquisitions," Mr. Paris, the Barrington analyst, said. "The company is maturing, and it needs to grow into the next phase."
Mr. Ward, 47, is trying to put his stamp on the company. He talks about building on its strength as the No. 1 pest control company (Terminix) and the No. 1 lawn care company (TruGreen ChemLawn).
"There's a $200 billion market for services in the U.S., and I've got $4 billion," Mr. Ward said. "So why do I want to go anywhere else?"
Although analysts praise Mr. Ward for shrinking the company, they expect it to be hurt by a weak economy. "They definitely have businesses that are cyclical," said Fran Blechman Bernstein, at Merrill Lynch. "So the softer economy is something they'll have to overcome."
No layoffs are planned now, but 400 employees, many of whom grew up at the company, will transfer to Aramark with the sale of the management services division. 
Mr. Pollard, still the chairman and drawing a $600,000 salary, may also be on the way out. He talks about stepping down and encouraging changes in the insular board -- a board he selected.
As for Mr. Ward, he is preaching the "willingness to change," as he told employees recently in Memphis.
Wall Street wants ServiceMaster to become more modern and efficient, with or without God. ServiceMaster employees and franchise owners say they welcome the change in leadership, but few expect the company to abandon its roots.
"I don't think there's any chance that will happen," said Rick Armstrong, a franchise owner in Wheaton. "I've heard Jonathan Ward speak twice, and I believe he has a relationship with Christ. And the board has a relationship with Christ. But they aren't naive enough to say ServiceMaster is a church."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan P. Ward, the first outsider to lead ServiceMaster, still calls meetings to order by quoting Scripture but is also trying to change corporate priorities. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Jonathan P. Ward, the chief, with a custodian at company headquarters in Downers Grove, Ill.; Michael Donaldson, a Terminix branch service manager, sprays for pests at a house. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. C6) Chart: "ServiceMaster"LAWN CARE: TruGreen ChemLawn and TruGreen LandCare provide residential and commercial lawn care and landscaping.$1.56 billion in operating revenue; 422 locations, 3.5 million customers. HOME MAINTENANCE: ServiceMaster Clean; American Residential Services; American Home Shield; Merry Maids; Rescue Rooter; AmeriSpec; Furniture Medic.$1.21 billion in revenue; 6,732 locations, 5 million customers. PEST CONTROL: $734Terminix million in revenue; 864 locations, 4.1 million customers. MANAGEMENT SERVICES*: Provides management support for health care, education and commercial businesses.$1.91 billion in revenue; 1,717 customers. *Sale to Aramark is pending.(Source: ServiceMaster)(pg. C1) Chart: "Pushing Too Hard for Growth"For ServiceMaster, its problems began in the late 1990's with two large acquisitions that added substantially to revenue but saddled the company with debts that cut sharply into profits. REVENUE GREW STRONGLYGraph tracks operating revenue, in billions, from 1990 to 2000. BUT PROFITS STALLEDGraph tracks net income, in millions, from 1990 to 2000.(Source: ServiceMaster)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ETHICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: SERVICEMASTER CO (91%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (57%); MERRY MAIDS LP (55%); ARIEL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICEMASTER CO 

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561730 LANDSCAPING SERVICES (91%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS561710 EXTERMINATING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (91%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7342 DISINFECTING & PEST CONTROL SERVICES (91%); SIC0782 LAWN & GARDEN SERVICES (91%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (57%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (57%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (57%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (57%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%) SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES; 

PERSON: WARD, JONATHAN P; BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



772 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Cablevision Will Increase Rates 5.5% 

 BODY:
 Cablevision Systems Corporation, the New York region's largest cable television provider, said yesterday that it would increase its rates 5.5 percent starting next year. 
The increase reflects higher programming and operating costs, inflation and improvements in service, said Charles Schueler, a company spokesman. Last year's increase averaged 7 percent, he added. AT&T Corporation, the nation's largest cable television provider, raised its rates by an average of 5.5 percent this month. Cablevision has 3 million customers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CITIES (86%) TELEVISION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (96%); AT&T INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP 

TICKER: CVC (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



773 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Court Backs Levi Strauss On Pricing 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
In a blow to consumers looking for savings on designer goods, Europe's highest court backed Levi Strauss & Company today in a long-running legal battle to keep cut-price versions of its blue jeans from being sold by Tesco, Britain's biggest supermarket chain.
 The ruling sets a precedent that threatens to crimp Tesco's practice of selling at a discount many "gray market" designer goods, like Nike sneakers and Calvin Klein underwear. It may thwart Tesco's efforts to upend the rules imposed on retailers by manufacturers who want to defend the exclusivity and high prices of goods with their brands. 
 "If we had won today," said Simon Soffe, a spokesman for Tesco, "this would have significantly changed the way the whole of the world trades."
Central to the dispute is the practice, widespread among companies like Levi Strauss, of selling the same or similar goods at widely different prices to outlets in different countries, depending on local market conditions. Levi's 501 jeans, for instance, typically retail for about $80 a pair in the company's leading London outlet, but sell in the United States for only $40 -- the price Tesco charges.
Retailers like Tesco and the Asda supermarket chain in Britain, part of Wal-Mart Stores, have responded by buying goods in countries where prices are lower and importing the goods on their own for sale. That creates a gray market of legitimate goods sold at prices that undercut the manufacturer's intentions.
The ruling by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg represents a "strong win for brand owners," said Joe Middleton, the president of Levi Strauss Europe, in a statement. But Delroy Corinaldi, a spokesman for the Consumers' Association, a British advocacy group, said the ruling was appalling because it restricted consumers' access to lower prices and choices in where to shop.
Tesco had been pressing for the freedom to stock its shelves with jeans bought from wholesalers in America or outside the European Union and associated countries. It could then offer the jeans at a low markup to draw shoppers into its stores.
But Levi Strauss claimed a "right to decide the way in which we distribute our products to best serve our customers," Mr. Middleton said.
Paola Brandi, a Levi Strauss spokeswoman in Brussels, said that the company did not dictate prices at its 17,000 authorized European retailers, which range from department stores to small shops. She said prices reflected a complex array of factors.
Tesco said that it sold about 10,000 pairs of Levi's jeans a month, relying on intermediaries and wholesalers in Continental Europe. The company argued that this was permissible as long as the jeans were meant to be sold in the European Economic Area.
But the court said trademark owners, like Levi Strauss, must grant permission "unequivocally" before goods made outside the European Economic Area could be sold within the European Union. 
Mr. Soffe said Tesco would petition the European Commission and the British government to change the law. Starting on Wednesday, he said, Tesco stores will add name-brand hi-fi systems to its offerings of discounted gray-market merchandise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (76%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (75%); BRANDING (75%); TRADEMARKS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TRADEMARK LAW (50%) APPAREL; JEANS (APPAREL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (96%); TESCO PLC (92%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO EUROPE SCA (84%); ASDA GROUP PLC (67%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (59%) LEVI STRAUSS & CO; EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE; TESCO PLC; NIKE INC; KLEIN, CALVIN, INC 

TICKER: TSCO (LSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%) SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' TROUSERS; SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



774 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The 55-Cent Solution

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
When Gerald Ford turned down New York City's appeal for financial aid, the front page of The Daily News screamed "Ford to City: Drop Dead." Those were the days.
 These days, only diligent newspaper readers know that George W. Bush has backed off his personal pledge to provide aid to the battered city. And only serious policy wonks know that this is part of a broader picture -- that the economic measures now being discussed in Washington will impoverish state and local governments across the country. 
 Gerald Ford didn't really deserve that headline. He had never promised anything to a city whose fiscal woes were, without question, largely self-inflicted. Why should he have felt compelled to help?
This time, the story is different. Mr. Bush, you may recall, had a rocky couple of days after the terrorist attack. Some questioned his movements on Sept. 11; in New York there was some anger that he did not quickly visit the city. The White House responded to the first criticism with its story about a "credible threat" to Air Force One. More important, Mr. Bush quickly mended his fences in New York by promising members of the state's Congressional delegation that he would provide ample aid -- he told Senator Charles Schumer that the city had a "blank check." 
Mr. Bush may not have been specific about the details, but all involved thought they knew what he had promised. Every news story I've been able to find from those early days declared that Mr. Bush would allocate half the $40 billion proposed antiterrorism package to New York. And this was widely regarded as only a first installment. 
But last week the House Appropriations Committee finally filled in the details. And the antiterrorism package, which closely followed the administration's guidelines, contained only $9 billion for New York, less than half the promised $20 billion. In last-minute negotiations with irate Republican congressmen this was raised to $11 billion; but that's still only 55 cents on the dollar.
Administration officials say they will eventually provide the full $20 billion. But since they haven't kept Mr. Bush's promise to include that sum in the antiterrorism package, why should we believe them? As the memory of the attack recedes, as the administration returns to its pre-Sept. 11 embrace of hard-line conservatives -- which has pretty much happened already -- it becomes less and less likely that New York will see the rest of the money.
There may never be a specific day when the Bush administration tells the city to drop dead. Instead there will be vague promises, and then a lot of creative accounting -- for example, the costs of deploying the National Guard will be counted as part of the $20 billion. But more and more it seems that the aid New Yorkers thought they had been promised, the aid that was supposed to help rebuild the city, was a mirage.
As I said, this is part of a broader picture. The combination of an economic slump and the effects of Sept. 11 has placed state and local governments across the country in a severe financial squeeze. Since almost all state governments are required by law to balance their budgets, this will force draconian cuts in spending. 
You might have expected the "stimulus" packages being floated in Washington to provide some help to state governments in this difficult time. On the contrary, they will compound the damage. Proposals that would exempt large chunks of corporate profits from federal taxes will also reduce the profits subject to state taxes. Next year, in all likelihood, will present quite a spectacle: big tax cuts for corporations and people who make more than $300,000 per year, even as desperate state governments slash spending -- with the biggest cuts falling on education and medical care for the poor.
Coming back to New York, what puzzles me is how little attention the story of the promise that wasn't is getting. In the weeks after Sept. 11, everyone took it for granted that there would be a great national effort to help rebuild the city. Now it is clear that this won't happen; the administration may claim to be providing what it promised, but New York will have to beg for every dollar of that $20 billion. 
Where's the outrage? Have New Yorkers, of all people, forgotten how to complain? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



775 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: White House Cancels Christmas Tours 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that the White House was canceling its public Christmas tours, an announcement that set off groans among local officials who fear that the shutdown contradicts the president's call for normalcy and furthers the image of a capital under siege.
 "Evil knows no holiday," the president told reporters. "Evil doesn't welcome the Thanksgiving or Christmas season, and in these extraordinary times, we're taking extraordinary measures." 
 The White House is also limiting access to the lighting of the national Christmas tree on the Ellipse on Dec. 6. Just 2,000 ticketholders will be allowed to attend, White House officials said. In years past, the ceremony has been open to the public. 
The Washington region has lost $10 million a day since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, city officials said.
Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said the Secret Service had made the decision to bar tourists from viewing the holiday decorations, a longstanding tradition. The White House has been closed to tourists since Sept. 11, and Mr. Fleischer said today that it would remain closed indefinitely.
"No one wants to be in a position where the public is not welcome in the people's house," he said. "This building does belong to the country. It belongs to the people. But I think the people are the first to recognize that these are extraordinary times. Our nation is at war."
The virtual sealing off of the White House has distressed local officials, who say that it is one of the top draws for tourists and that every day it remains closed is another day the region suffers. The officials also said the closing was particularly difficult to understand while Mr. Bush was calling for normal activities and encouraging people to travel.
Moreover, the officials said, the closing is at odds with a new television advertising campaign that uses the actors from "The West Wing" to urge tourists to visit Washington.
"Welcome to your nation's capital, a fortress city," said Representative Constance A. Morella, a Maryland Republican who is chairwoman of the House subcommittee that oversees the District of Columbia.
Ms. Morella said Washington was expected to lose $1.25 billion by the end of the year.
"If you want people to go back to normal, you have to let them," she said.
Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington's nonvoting delegate to Congress, said she expected a top-level meeting between the administration and local officials before the end of the year to discuss the effects of the closings.
"I think that the problem is that the only people at the table are the security people," Ms. Norton said. "All the options need to be on the table before you take the most draconian option."
Karen P. Hughes, counselor to Mr. Bush, said the fight against terrorism was something that the president "expects we will be dealing with throughout his administration and into many future administrations."
A spokeswoman for the Washington Convention and Tourism Corporation, Victoria Isley, was more upbeat than the politicians. Hotel occupancy has climbed, Ms. Isley said, to a high of 72 percent by Nov. 4 from a low of 25 percent the week after Sept. 11. Nov. 4 was the last date for which she had statistics.
"Washington, D.C., is open for business and open for the holidays," Ms. Isley said, adding that the White House was not the sole attraction in town. 
Tony Bullock, a spokesman for Mayor Anthony A. Williams, said studies showed that the top three attractions here were tours of the White House, the Capitol and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. All are closed. Shutting off the holiday tour at the White House, Mr. Bullock said, "is like going to Paris and not being able to visit the Eiffel Tower."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Constance Abercrombie and her sons Michael and David at the White House, which has halted public tours. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); CITIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHRISTMAS; WHITE HOUSE (WASHINGTON, DC); CHRISTMAS TREES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (58%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



776 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: RECONSTRUCTION; 
U.S. and 21 Other Nations Vow To Spend Billions on Afghanistan

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN with STEPHANIE FLANDERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The United States and 21 other nations agreed today to spend billions of dollars to reconstruct Afghanistan after the war, as officials said they were prepared to pay for "high-impact" farm, road and school-building projects to try to win over the Afghan people as soon as the Taliban are defeated.
 Though discussions were still in the early stages, some officials estimated privately that the cost of feeding, clothing and housing people and ultimately creating a functioning society in Afghanistan would reach $10 billion. 
 The task seemed likely to dwarf recent reconstruction efforts in East Timor and Kosovo, which have much smaller populations and less devastation from war.
"The vast majority of the Afghan people awaken hungry, cold and sick every morning," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said at a conference on aid convened at his agency this morning. 
"All of us know that the international community must be prepared to sustain a reconstruction program that will take many, many years."
While the United States and its allies have yet to defeat fully the Taliban or Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's organization, officials said they had begun preparing a blueprint for reconstruction because nations were more likely to pledge large amounts of money now than later, before so-called donor fatigue sets in.
Some also said that the war could end abruptly, while major aid projects take months to get under way.
"We are very focused on quick-hitting projects that can inspire hope that the international community is able and ready to help people live better lives," said Al Larson, undersecretary of state for economic affairs.
He referred in particular to improving irrigation to create viable farms and to building schools that would be open to girls and women, both as students and teachers, as projects that had the potential to deliver quick benefits to large numbers of people.
The Bush administration has emphasized since it began attacking targets in Afghanistan last month that it considers the aid mission there an urgent priority. Military aircraft dropped food packets to refugees even as they dropped the first bombs. 
The administration is also eager to rebut the contention that the United States is waging war on Islam generally, while it is also seeking to ease the extreme poverty that helped make Afghanistan a terrorist base.
But the cost and complexity of rebuilding Afghanistan could prove as formidable as the effort to oust the Taliban and capture or kill Mr. bin Laden. 
Experts say that international aid often goes to waste when it is suddenly showered on undeveloped nations and that it can be almost impossible to distribute effectively in countries that lack stable governments.
Moreover, the costs in Afghanistan are likely to rise over time. Delivering food and basic medical care, considered emergency priorities, is far less expensive than building roads, schools and hospitals, or training teachers and government officials.
"It's really three to five years out that it will really get expensive," said Mark Malloch Brown, the administrator of the United Nations Development Program, who attended today's session in Washington. 
"The trick is to turn today's political support into a check" that can be banked for aid programs several years hence, he said.
The meeting today, arranged on short notice by the United States and Japan, brought together officials from Britain, Germany, Saudi Arabia and other major donor countries, as well as the United Nations and the World Bank, which are expected to administer most of the aid.
Officials said they would finish preparing a more concrete plan of action and costs by January, when a major conference on aid is scheduled to take place in Japan.
"It is the early days yet," said William Byrd, the World Bank's country director for Afghanistan. "But we want to keep moving quickly because no one can predict how fast political events will move."
Few officials are willing to give a public estimate of the cost of rebuilding an economy in which the most recent economic statistics date to 1994.
The World Bank calculated in a recent study that just clearing known minefields in the country would cost $500 million, more than the entire reconstruction budget for East Timor.
Even before the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1978, setting off more than two decades of armed resistance and civil war, the country was one of the world's poorest. 
Most institutions in Afghanistan will have to be built from scratch.
Other recent reconstruction efforts have ranged from $700 per person in the case of East Timor to roughly $1,500 per person in the West Bank and Gaza, according to the World Bank. 
Those places have much smaller populations than Afghanistan's 25 million people, though.
Some United Nations officials have compared the task in Afghanistan to a five-year rebuilding effort for Mozambique after a civil war there ended in 1992. Other countries and international groups ultimately spent $6.5 billion, or just under $400 for each of the nation's 17 million people.
A slight silver lining in Afghanistan's long history of war and drought is that it has a standing army of aid workers, many of them Afghans, who have years of experience running basic social services in the countryside and delivering aid. 
There are now 2,200 Afghans working in their own country for United Nations agencies, for example.
The United Nations aims to increase that number to 10,000 by the middle of next year.
"Because it's been in difficulty for so long you have homegrown experience and capacity to build on," said Mr. Byrd of the World Bank. 
"You also have several million Afghans who've gone through the refugee experience and have skills or have learned skills because refugees by the nature have to become entrepreneurial." 
Officials said they were trying to make longer-term rebuilding aid meld seamlessly with ongoing aid efforts to avoid what Mr. Malloch Brown called the "funding gap" that often opens up when an immediate crisis fades.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and a representative from Japan, Sadako Ogata, at a conference yesterday on rebuilding Afghanistan. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HOSPITALS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%); RELIGION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



777 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT; 
Consultants Put Aside Rivalries for New York

BYLINE:  By MAGGIE JACKSON

 BODY:
Kathryn Wylde did not think twice about asking half a dozen consulting firms that have always viewed one another as archcompetitors to work together on a study of the terrorist attack's economic impact.
 "Ignorance is bliss," Ms. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, said with a wry smile. 
 But she learned quickly how unusual the collaboration was when, at one of the first meetings in late September, the financier Henry R. Kravis looked at the participants and said, "Seeing you work together surely must be a first-time event." 
The firms' joint report, which was released last week and which forecast at least $83 billion in losses, was an important tool for city planners. But for the consulting industry, its making was a test of how such highly competitive and ordinarily secretive rivals would function as a unit. As it turned out, it was a sometimes messy process that left both bruised feelings and new friendships in its wake.
"I didn't appreciate, when first thinking about it, what a unique situation it was," said Ms. Wylde, whose group represents major employers and business leaders. "But I was confident that all this talent could in fact be corralled and pushed in one direction."
Crunched out in five weeks as a pro bono project, the study involved more than 70 management consultants from Booz Allen Hamilton, A. T. Kearney, McKinsey & Company, the Boston Consulting Group, Bain & Company and PwC Consulting. KPMG, the tax and accounting firm, also took part.
The firms jumped at the chance to participate in part because the project was a networking godsend for an industry hard hit by the recession. Booz Allen Hamilton, A. T. Kearney and PwC have laid off employees this year, and many firms are seeking more pro bono work, both to keep employees busy and to drum up business.
Especially attractive was the fact that the board included some of New York's most illustrious business leaders, including Mr. Kravis, the founding partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and Sanford I. Weill, the Citigroup chairman. Consultants rarely get to meet Mr. Kravis three times in five weeks, as some did during this project.
Still, the spirit of solidarity that was born of the attacks inspired the consultants to levels of cooperation that were once unimaginable, participants said. At one point, for example, McKinsey helped PwC assess how the downturn in advertising would affect media companies.
"The attacks put me into as deep a funk emotionally as really I've ever been," said Scott L. Corwin, a vice president at A. T. Kearney. "This project personally gave me a way for me to channel the grief I felt, the sadness I felt, the overwhelming sense of lack of control about the world we live in."
At a first meeting, where the firms were divvying up sectors of industry to study, top partners anxiously tiptoed around one another. Few had met anyone from a competing firm. "It was almost like a tea party," said Joanna Barsh, a McKinsey director. "Everybody had white gloves on. Everybody said, 'What would you like to do?', 'Oh please, what would you like to do? After you.' I was surprised. These are all type-A people."
Still, tensions rose and fell as three levels of consultants got down to the meat of the report. At each firm, a "sector team" produced initial findings, mainly based on Federal Reserve data and interviews with the business community. A group of team leaders met to integrate the information, and seven senior partners -- one from each firm -- made decisions on how to proceed.
At first, much time was spent debating logistics, like how to alert people to meetings on short notice. "It wasn't as bad as, 'Should we use blue pencils or red ones?', but it got close to that," one participant said.
"It was the best of consulting and the worst of consulting," Ms. Barsh said. "It was really easy to get to work. They were all professionals. On the other hand, you had seven consulting firms, all simultaneously trying to help."
While egos were mostly parked at the door, the participants engaged in much competitive jockeying. Younger workers traded information about their workplaces, perhaps with an eye toward future jobs. The core team of seven senior partners was called alternately "The Island," as in the setting for the television show "Survivor," or the "Seven Samurai."
Even the food drew notice. People grumbled when McKinsey called a 5 p.m. emergency meeting and served only bottled water. Booz Allen Hamilton, which donated office space to the project, won kudos because Reginald Van Lee, a lanky Texan managing partner, made sure Krispy Kreme doughnuts and hot lunches were routinely served. 
The worst sticking points in the process came in wrangling over what role Lower Manhattan should take in the city's future and which firm should write the final presentation. Participants debated whether to urge the government to subsidize the rebuilding of office space in Lower Manhattan or instead let the private sector do the job. Ultimately, they chose the private sector.
Some feelings were bruised at the project's end when one partner rewrote the final slide presentation before a report to civil and business leaders, including former President Bill Clinton.
Still, participants said they wound up the project feeling a mixture of relief and pride, and many made professional friendships. Plus, one manager has a new view of his job.
"My wife is an elementary-school teacher, and when I talk to friends I always used to say, 'at least one of us does something good for society,' " said Anand Raghuraman, a team leader on the project for A. T. Kearney. "Here, for the first time, I could say I was actually doing something for society."

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 70 management consultants from leading and competing firms collaborated on a pro bono project to determine the impact of the Sept. 11 attacks. The group forecast $83 billion in losses for New York. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); TRENDS (74%); RECESSION (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ACCOUNTING 

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (93%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%); KKR & CO LP (84%); BAIN & CO (66%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (54%); CITIGROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (93%); KKR (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (75%); SANDY WEILL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001 



778 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ART; 
Less Stuff To Strut, But a Show Goes On

BYLINE:  By David Pogue 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
UNTIL recently, you might have described Comdex, the annual high-tech trade show, as the biggest computer show on earth. It would be safer to describe this year's edition, however, as the biggest computer show in Las Vegas. This month. So far.
 Its organizer, Key3 Media, says attendance in this post-crash tech economy was down 40 percent from the usual 200,000. But highly placed sources -- five cab drivers I met -- dismissed that figure with a chuckle. Based on years of honing their fares-to-attendance formulas, they said the attendance looked more like 70,000 to them. 
 Either way, the difference from last year was dramatic. The show's exhibit space contracted, leaving one of its traditional show floors, the Sands Convention Center, unoccupied for the first time in years. But in some ways, Comdex Lite was a more worthwhile trade show. 
For the first time in perhaps a decade, the aisles felt like real pathways instead of Times Square on New Year's Eve. You could actually approach booth personnel and conduct meaningful discussions instead of just shouting "How much?" before being swept away by the throngs.
There were fewer exhibitors this year, too. Rather than paying, for example, $50,000 for a booth, many companies, newly budget-conscious, opted to conduct their business in hotel suites around the city. And not everyone who did rent booths had products to hawk. Perhaps in hopes of attracting some of Silicon Valley's freshly unemployed, some exhibitors pitched locales instead, including Egypt, Dubai and Wyoming.
On the other hand, one company's presence was so enormous, the show might have been called Microsoftdex. To be sure, it's a big year for Microsoft, which spared no expense in spotlighting its new wares: Windows XP, Office XP, Pocket PC software and the Xbox game console. The company set up about a dozen Xboxes, amplified and projected on big screens, so that attendees could unwind with a little 3-D simulated violence. Everybody loved it, except perhaps the string trio at the adjacent exhibit.
But Microsoft aside, what remained of the show was still enough to provide a look at the technologies that may well dominate the news in the coming year.
For example, 2002 is shaping up to be the year of the smartphone. Handspring, Samsung, Kyocera, Nokia and others showed their latest attempts to fulfill the dream of the information worker: to combine all of today's belt-borne electronics -- Palm organizer, cellphone and text pager -- into a single gadget. 
Few phones could be smarter, though, than those on display in the huge yellow booth of NTT DoCoMo, Japan's leading cellular service. Goggle-eyed Americans pressed their noses to the display cases to get a better look at tiny, gleaming cellphones that are now available only in Japan, including a cellular videophone that would have made Dick Tracy drool.
More than one American wondered why DoCoMo was at Comdex at all. Was it just to rub our noses in how badly American cellular networks lag behind those of other countries? (Answer: Not exactly. With AT&T as its partner, DoCoMo hopes to bring its products and service to the American marketplace in the next few years.)
Comdex 2001 also served as a coming-out party for Bluetooth, a wireless technology whose failure to materialize after years of hype had made it the butt of sarcastic computer-industry jokes. 
The original concept seemed sound: Bluetooth-equipped gadgets can communicate with each other, via radio waves, at distances up to about 30 feet. Someday, we'll no longer need wires to connect our printers, laptops, phones and palmtops. At Comdex after Comdex, however, no real Bluetooth products were available, and the earliest prototypes spoke such different dialects that they couldn't even understand one another.
This year, the electronics companies were finally ready to strut their stuff. Palm Computing demonstrated tiny S.D. (Secure Digital) cards (the size of a postage stamp) and other Bluetooth attachments that permit palmtops to make printouts on compatible printers, surf the Net through compatible network base stations, and blast data to other Palms across the room -- all wirelessly.
Bluetooth also seems a natural fit with cellphones like the Bluetooth-equipped models from Ericsson. If you've snapped a Bluetooth card into your Palm, you can dial your Bluetooth phone from the palmtop's address book. And if you've popped a NextLink BlueSpoon (coming next year) into your ear, you can hide the phone in your pocket as you walk down the street, chatting away to an invisible colleague. The BlueSpoon, which resembles a translucent blue gumball, communicates with the phone by Bluetooth signals -- and picks up your voice via skull vibrations.
The events of Sept. 11 were too recent to have effected many changes in the industry's Comdex plans. That must be why Samsung, Sony, LG Electronics and other makers were still featuring stunningly big, bright, thin flat-panel TV screens that cost up to $8,000. That price (for Sony's new 60-inch model, due in January) is far lower than that of last year's models. But for most showgoers, such wall-filling screens remain an unattainable object of technolust.
Thanks to the country's heightened sense of vulnerability, the exhibitors in the Biometrics Pavilion unexpectedly found themselves the belles of the ball. These tiny companies have been at Comdex every year. But suddenly their "Mission: Impossible" style fingerprint scanners, eyeball scanners, face scanners and voice-identification systems were all the rage. (The most talked-about security system, however, was the one at the Comdex gates. Although attendees entered through metal detectors, they were told to pass their bags around the detectors and pick them up, uninspected, on the other side.) 
No obviously important new technologies surfaced at Comdex this year. Instead, the show was all about evolution: better digital cameras, brighter projectors, cheaper robot dogs. (The show was also all about silver. So much silver paint covered the products of Comdex this year that from a distance, it could have been the Tin Man's family reunion.)
If the keynote speakers had a single message to their financially shell-shocked comrades, it was, "Cheer up." Bill Gates of Microsoft, Jeff Hawkins of Handspring and Kunitake Ando of Sony, for example, each took the stage to paint a bright picture of technology's near future. 
If the exhibitors had such a message, it was, "Think about something else." Booth after booth featured sports cars, female models or those 60-inch flat screens, all calculated to catch the eyes of the predominantly male audience. Mercedes even let showgoers drive $120,000 cars around a gigantic test track in the convention-center parking lot.
The funny thing was that amid the gloom, grounds for optimism could indeed be found even at this downsized Comdex. Yes, PC sales have leveled off, but when the economic pendulum swings back, whether that's in 5 months or 10, the tech industry will be ready to roll with circuitry in a wide range of appealing and useful new forms. 
Until then, it's hard to forget the sight of the oxygen bars that one enterprising company set up outside the show's exits. For $12, attendees could spend five minutes breathing pure oxygen through nasal tubes. 
As one of the most difficult years in high-tech history comes to a close, the sight of oxygen being administered to weary computer executives may have been a more apt metaphor than Comdex's organizers would like to admit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SHOWSTOPPER -- NTT DoCoMo displayed its cellphones in Las Vegas. (Reuters)(pg. G4) Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (67%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); SMARTPHONES (64%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (62%) ELECTRONICS; COMDEX (COMPUTER TRADE SHOW); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); KYOCERA CORP (51%)

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (80%); DCM (NYSE) (80%); 9437 (TSE) (80%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); KYO (NYSE) (51%); 6971 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (80%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: POGUE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



779 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: When Prisoners Study 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 That such an obviously sensible policy as educating prisoners has not been examined systematically before the Department of Education study reported in your Nov. 16 news article ("Inmate Education Is Found to Lower Risk of New Arrest") suggests that there has been more to the issue than financial, moral or justice concerns. 
 Creating a consensus on the social worth of prisoner higher education will require overcoming the perception that an "undeserving" population is gaining an advantage or entitlement denied to many hard-working citizens. 
Not until there is universal opportunity for postsecondary education can we expect much public support for prisoner programs. Unfortunately, the recession and the Sept. 11 aftermath create an especially inhospitable climate for either reform. 

ROBERT P. WEISS
Plattsburgh, N.Y., Nov. 17, 2001

The writer is a professor of sociology and criminal justice, State University of New York at Plattsburgh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: WEISS, ROBERT P (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



780 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO DROPS. The euro fell after a decline in German business confidence fueled concern that the nation's economy is headed for a recession. In New York, the euro settled at 87.94 cents, down from 88.27 cents on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since June 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); TRENDS (85%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



781 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Four U.S. Companies Sign the First Trade Deals With Cuba 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Four American companies became the first in four decades to sign trade accords with Cuba and will supply food worth about $20 million to aid in the recovery from Hurricane Michelle, a business official said today.
 Representatives of the companies -- Archer Daniels Midland, Cargill, Riceland Foods and ConAgra -- were in Havana this week to sign the agreements with the state company Alimport to provide wheat, corn, soy and rice, said John Kavulich, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council. 
 The deals came after Cuba, which has been subject to a United States embargo since soon after President Fidel Castro's revolution in 1959, appealed to Washington to speed up authorization to buy food and medicines from the United States on a one-time basis to replenish stocks used after the hurricane hit on Nov. 4. 
The storm, the worst in five decades, severely damaged crops earmarked for both export and local needs.
Washington had first offered to send humanitarian aid via nongovernment bodies, but Havana replied with a polite refusal and a counteroffer to buy food and medicines with cash.
Archer Daniels Midland signed the first of its contracts on Tuesday, for about 20,000 metric tons of wheat at a market value of around $2.5 million, Mr. Kavulich said.
Cuba is estimated to want products totaling about $30 million, of which Archer Daniels Midland, Cargill and Riceland appear to have won the largest share.
There was no immediate confirmation from Cuban officials on the deals, which still require approval by the United States Commerce Department.
But Cargill's director of international business development, Van Yeutter, confirmed his company's agreement to sell 20,000 metric tons of wheat, 19,000 tons of corn and 5,000 tons of crude vegetable oil for shipment in January and February.
A spokesman for Archer Daniels Midland, Larry Cunningham, confirmed the company had sold Cuba "tens of thousands" of tons of food products for shipment in the next week to 10 days. The products are expected to be transported on American ships or those of a third country.
Mr. Kavulich said another three companies, Gold Kist of Georgie, Tyson Foods in Arkansas and Perdue Farms in Maryland, were likely to win some remaining Cuban contracts. 
Havana has stressed that the sales are exceptional because of the hurricane damage, and has reiterated its appeal for a full lifting of the embargo.
"The contracts being signed with Cuba should not be seen as as a start of an ongoing commercial relationship with Cuba," Mr. Kavulich said. "They are taking place under a humanitarian umbrella after Hurricane Michelle as the Cubans have made clear they don't expect to continue with these purchases." 
But the contracts may be an important crack in the embargo, which is opposed by a significant farm and business lobby in the United States.
"The hurricane seems to have broken the logjam," said Phil Peters, vice president of the Washington-based Lexington Institute and a former State Department official who has traveled extensively in Cuba.
The situation has not only brought a symbolic sale to Cuba but has helped reinforce both sides' positions on the embargo.
Washington can demonstrate what it has long been arguing -- that sales of food and medicine are in fact possible thanks to modifications of the embargo legislation, if there is a political will in Cuba.
Havana has an opportunity to open a chink in the sanctions, stoke the internal American anti-embargo lobby and perhaps move up Cuba on President Bush's increasingly crowded foreign policy agenda. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); WEATHER (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WHEAT FARMING (76%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); APPROVALS (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%) FOOD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; HURRICANE MICHELLE 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (95%); TYSON FOODS INC (52%); PERDUE FARMS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO; CARGILL INC; RICELAND FOODS CORP; CONAGRA FOODS INC 

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (95%); TSN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (95%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (95%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (95%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (95%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (95%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (95%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (52%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (52%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (52%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (52%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (52%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



782 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Take Step Backward In Trading Before Holiday

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks retreated further from bull-market territory yesterday, as traders hesitated to hold big positions going into the Thanksgiving holiday with worries about the short-term health of the economy and corporate earnings.
 Even a bullish economic report, which showed the number of Americans lining up for first-time unemployment benefits was down for a fourth consecutive week, could not overcome fears that a recovery was still a way off. 
 "The market has been levitating -- you could pass a hoop over it and see there's not a lot of fundamental support," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist for PNC Advisors, who said his firm had sold bonds but was holding cash instead of buying stocks. 
"Jobless claims were down," he said, "and that's a good sign, but we're still a long way from seeing the bottom in earnings for corporations."
Indeed, analysts do not expect quarterly profits to start to increase again until at least the second quarter of next year, according to the market research firm Thomson Financial/First Call.
Amgen bolstered health shares after the company, a leader in biotechnology, said strong sales of new drugs would help earnings increase faster than analysts had expected. But big technology names like Microsoft fell.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 66.70 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 9,834.68, down for the second session after clambering into bull-market territory on Monday. A bull market is defined as a gain of at least 20 percent from a recent low.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 5.63 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,137.03, while the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 5.46 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,875.05.
The market is closed today for Thanksgiving; there will be a half-day of trading tomorrow.
Enron, the most-active stock on the New York Stock Exchange for a second consecutive session, tumbled $1.98, to $5.01, on worries the company may not stay afloat long enough to be rescued in a pending takeover by Dynegy.
Enron said it had won a three-week reprieve from its banks on a $690 million note and reaffirmed its agreement to be taken over by Dynegy. But shares remained lower after the announcement. --------------------

Treasuries Are Lower
(By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as jobless claims declined for a fourth week and a consumer confidence index rose, bolstering expectations the economy may have bottomed.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 22/32, to a price of 100 14/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.95 percent from 4.87 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 17/32, to 100 11/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.35 percent from 5.32 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks averages of 15 and 30-year mortgages from July through November.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (57%); AMGEN INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); DYNEGY INC (52%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (57%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); DYN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



783 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Hunger in the City

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
If you're interviewing people lined up at soup kitchens and food pantries in New York City, many will offer you their phone numbers and ask if you know where they might find work. Politely, quietly, often a little desperately, they'll ask you to let them know "if you hear of something."
 There's a shortage of jobs in the city at the moment, which means there's a shortage of food. The weather is getting colder and the lines of people in search of a hot meal, or a package of food that will help get the family through another week or two, are getting longer. 
 Germania Barahona was able to pick up some groceries on Tuesday at a food pantry in the basement of the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew on Manhattan's Upper West Side. The pantry is run by the West Side Campaign Against Hunger.
"This is my first time here," Ms. Barahona said. "I had a job up until Sept. 11. I was a nanny for a woman that worked in the towers. When they fell she lost her job, and I lost mine."
Edwin Asencio was also at the pantry, with his wife, Edith, and their 3-year-old grandson, Mark. "I used to make $1,000 a week," he said. "I never came to a place like this."
He said he had been forced to stop working after suffering several heart attacks. Now he's grateful for the food assistance. He seemed to sum up the tradeoffs that are an inevitable part of tough times when he casually noted, "I have to walk sometimes instead of taking the train so I can use the fare to buy milk for my grandson."
There are more than 1,000 soup kitchens and food pantries in the city, and they are stretched beyond capacity. The pantry at St. Paul and St. Andrew is serving nearly twice as many people as last year.
"We are blown away by the neediness we're seeing," said the church's pastor, the Rev. James Karpen. "We're trying to make it as dignified an experience as possible."
This problem is not limited to New York in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attack. Even before Sept. 11, an alarming number of Americans were lining up for emergency food assistance. Those seeking help included the jobless, a majority of whom do not qualify for unemployment benefits; working poor families that do not earn enough money to cover the cost of food as well as their other necessities, like rent and utilities; the elderly, including many men and women faced with the heartbreaking choice of paying for food or paying for medicine; immigrants ineligible for welfare or food stamps; and a wide range of individuals struggling with substance abuse, physical disabilities and mental illness.
"The demand for food is so high it's outstripping our ability across the system to replenish it," said Robert Forney, president and chief executive officer of America's Second Harvest, a national network of nonprofit food banks that provides 80 percent of the food distributed by private charities.
Last year in New York, about 20 percent of the pantries in the city had to turn people away because they ran out of food. That figure is expected to reach 30 percent this year, according to Joel Berg, director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger.
A survey of food pantries and soup kitchens released this week by the coalition showed a rapid rise in the demand for food assistance in the first several months of this year, and then a dramatic additional surge in demand following the Sept. 11 attack.
The coalition called its survey "From Bad to Worse."
The survey said, "The city's mostly volunteer-staffed soup kitchens and food pantries, more than two-thirds of which are faith-based, are finding it harder and harder to keep up with the ever-growing crowds at their facilities."
When you talk about hunger in America, the problems are not the same as in Somalia or North Korea or Afghanistan. Americans are not starving in the streets. But there is still something very wrong, in a society as affluent as ours, when families have to choose between food and rent, or when parents have to forgo a meal so their children can eat, or when the elderly look wistfully at food on television -- food they can't have because they spent their money on their medicine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); RELIGION (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); NUTRITION (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%) FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS; DIET AND NUTRITION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY COALITION AGAINST HUNGER 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; BERG, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



784 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Payments Steady In September, S.& P. Reports 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Americans kept up payments on their credit card bills in September, despite an unstable job market and the terrorist attacks, the bond rating service Standard & Poor's said yesterday. 
 But the ability of card users to meet debt obligations will probably be pinched in the coming months if more workers lose their jobs, S.& P. warned. 
 "Consumer confidence continues to show signs of weakness with U.S. consumers nervous and the job market getting worse," S.& P. said.
The rating service's two barometers of credit card loan performance were stable in September compared with the numbers for August. 
Its monthly measure of bad credit card loans that card issuers wrote off was 6.5 percent in September, unchanged from August but still 1.4 percentage point higher than a year ago.
S.& P. had projected that the charge-off rate would climb to 8.4 percent. 
Its gauge of late credit card payments was unchanged from August at 5.1 percent. But the September figure was still up from 4.4 percent a year ago. 
But S.& P. noted that 80 percent of card issuers reported higher delinquencies in September than August.
It blamed a larger number of late payments on mail service disruption and slower collection efforts after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Credit card issuers would be helped by another rate cut by the Federal Reserve before the end of the year, the rating service said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BONDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%) CREDIT; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS 

ORGANIZATION: ;STANDARD & POOR'S CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



785 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: A's Soar at Harvard, Nearing a Majority 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Nearly half of the grades at Harvard University last year were A or A-minus, a steep increase from just 10 years earlier, a university study of grade inflation has found. 
 The report, issued on Tuesday, charted grades for the last 15 years and found that A's and A-minuses grew to 48.5 percent last year from 33.2 percent of grades in 1985. 
Failing grades, D's and C's accounted for fewer than 6 percent. 
 "With such a narrow range of grades available, faculty find it difficult to distinguish adequately between work of differing quality; they may also be unable to make such distinctions clear to students," wrote Susan Pedersen, dean of undergraduate education.
The dean's office has no official power over the faculty, but the dean can direct the departments to study the issue and push for change.
The highest percentage of A's was in small humanities classes, where they made up almost two-thirds of the grades given. Social science classes with 75 students or more were the toughest, with a third of the students receiving A's or A-minuses.
Some of the factors driving professors' generosity with grades were pressure to grade similarly to colleagues, fear of becoming known as a "tough grader" and pressure from students accustomed to higher grades, the Harvard study said.
The higher grades may also be deserved, as students work harder and are better prepared, it said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



786 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
In a model for lending in developing nations, a Bangladesh bank relies on peer pressure for collateral.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail: hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
THE village moneylender in Bangladesh charges interest rates of over 150 percent a year. Citibank would love to get that kind of return on its investments -- so why isn't Citibank lending money in Bangladesh villages?
 This is a serious question, in terms of both policy and profit. The painfully high interest rates charged by moneylenders in developing countries suggest that marginal investment opportunities there are much more profitable than in advanced industrial nations. 
 So why isn't there a rush of investment from Western banks to exploit these profitable opportunities -- and, as a byproduct, increase the pace of economic development in these countries?
There are several barriers to entry in the lending business in developing countries, many of which have to do with the information advantages that incumbent moneylenders have over potential entrants.
To begin, the local moneylender is intimately familiar with his clientele, and this gives him a huge information advantage over a bank officer in selecting reliable loan recipients. At the same time, the moneylender is in a very good position to monitor borrowers since he can check up on their activities daily.
Local moneylenders are also familiar with village customs and practices and can offer useful business advice; they are also in a good position to provide informal insurance to the loan recipients, too, since they know when a nonperforming loan is caused by outside causes, like bad weather, and when laziness is the cause.
Finally, moneylenders operate at a much smaller scale than Citibank does. Most of these loans are minuscule by Western standards, and Citibank just is not set up to handle tiny investments, even if they are potentially very profitable.
These factors -- selection costs, monitoring costs, local experience, insurance and inappropriate scale -- conspire to create a virtual monopoly for the moneylender. Even moneylenders from neighboring villages might find it hard to compete with someone who has an intimate knowledge of a particular village's inhabitants. The result is tens of thousands of tiny monopolies and many profitable projects that are never undertaken because of the high cost of borrowing.
But there is hope. About 25 years ago Muhammad Yunus, a Bangladeshi economist trained in the United States, developed a lending model that managed to overcome these kinds of barriers. His business model for microcredit has been immensely successful, spawning imitators the world over.
Most of these lenders are nonprofits, but they are self-supporting nonprofits, which do not require subsidies or loan guarantees. There are even a few for-profit enterprises experimenting with the Yunus microcredit model.
Mr. Yunus put his plan into effect through an institution he called the Grameen Bank.
The critical feature of the program is that a candidate for a loan must form a group with four other people who are not family members. Two members of the group originally receive a loan, and if they do well, the others then receive loans.
The borrowers are encouraged to assist each other, and all loan disbursements and repayments are made publicly, in front of other groups. Loans are always for one year, at a fixed interest rate of 20 percent, and they are always for modest amounts: no more than a few hundred dollars.
The borrowers use the loans to buy looms, chickens, cows and make other small capital investments. They start repaying the loan two weeks after getting it, and once they have repaid the initial loan, they are allowed to apply for new ones.
How does this business model solve the information problems described above? First, take the selection problem. The Grameen design provides strong incentive for good borrowers to join together, since they don't want to risk losing a loan because of one failure or troublemaker. The fact that they cannot join with other family members removes one sort of pressure to dilute group quality.
Second, the members of the group have an incentive to monitor one another's activities actively. They can provide advice, assistance, education and, if necessary, insurance. The group members themselves are in the best position to know whether a recipient is slacking off or has just had a run of bad luck, and they have great incentives to monitor their behavior in an honest and helpful way.
Third, all of this selection, monitoring, educating and insuring is done not by high-paid professionals, but by Bangladeshi peasants. The transactions costs of using groups are far, far lower than are the transactions costs for traditional bank loans.
There are other interesting economic angles. Over 90 percent of the borrowers are women. This isn't so much an ideological choice as a pragmatic one -- women turned out to be better credit risks. They were more tightly tied to the home and had fewer outside temptations, so they focused much more intently than did male borrowers on completing their projects.
All this seems to work. The bank says it has a repayment rate of 99 percent, and over 92 percent of the bank's shares are owned by the borrowers. Peer pressure can be an immensely strong force, and the Grameen Bank has figured out how to make it work in the cause of economic development.
Experiments elsewhere haven't been uniformly successful. In some countries, the poverty stricken do not have enough group solidarity to provide the necessary discipline. In more urban settings, it may be difficult to find appropriate small-scale investments. But there are numerous successful operations inspired by the Grameen bank.
One program, Project Enterprise, runs a Grameen-type program for minority entrepreneurs in New York.
To answer the question posed in the first paragraph: Citibank and other Western banks are well aware of the Grameen model. In 1999 the Citigroup Foundation donated $1 million to the program.
Citibank, along with others, is currently experimenting with microlending in India and other developing countries. Multinational banks may yet find ways to break the moneylenders' monopolies and finance microinvestment in poor countries.
Access to capital is critical for economic development. Grameen and its many offspring, both nonprofit and for-profit, offer an exciting model for alleviating poverty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To display products made by businesses financed by the Grameen Bank, huts were built at Joypura, a village near Dhaka, Bangladesh, before a visit by President Bill Clinton. The bank, which provides so-called microcredit, is a model for developing economies. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETURN ON INVESTMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); MICROFINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 

COMPANY: GRAMEEN BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GRAMEEN BANK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (59%) VARIAN, HAL R; YUNUS, MUHAMMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (58%) BANGLADESH (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) BANGLADESH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



787 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Some Mississippi Doctors Quit Obstetrics, Citing Insurance Cost 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., Nov. 21 

 BODY:
When Kim Smith went into labor in Holly Ridge on Sept. 9, 1993, she had every intention of driving the two hours south to her doctor in Jackson.
 But Ms. Smith and her family ended up instead in a hospital in nearby Indianola, where a family practice physician, Dr. Edgar Donahoe Jr., delivered her son. 
 "We barely got in the car and it was time to have the baby," said Ms. Smith, a 40-year-old mother of three.
If Ms. Smith were in the same predicament today, she might not have found a doctor in time.
Specialists in family medicine and obstetrics-gynecology in Indianola and other rural areas of Mississippi are increasingly dropping obstetrics because of skyrocketing costs for malpractice insurance.
Medical liability insurance rates for doctors who deliver babies have risen from 20 percent to 400 percent this year depending on the carrier, the Mississippi State Medical Association said. Annual premiums range from $40,000 to $110,000, the association said.
"They're passing the load to every physician they cover," said Liz Carroll, the medical association's government affairs representative. "Good doctors are being forced to ante up for the jackpot justice mentality in this state. In the end, patients have fewer options."
The Delta, a poor, rural region, has been hit particularly hard because of the already limited choices for care.
Three of the six doctors in Cleveland who deliver babies ended that part of their practice in October because of the premiums. Greenwood will soon go to two from four. Yazoo City, which has 14,550 residents, has no one practicing obstetrics.
Dr. Waldemar Prichard, one of Dr. Donahoe's partners in Indianola, says he will have to stop delivering babies next year unless he gets a break on his malpractice insurance bill, which he pays himself.
Dr. Prichard's premium for the coming year was $70,000. His gross salary last year was $72,000.
"I wanted to be a doctor not for the money but for the sheer pleasure and satisfaction of making a difference in people's lives," said Dr. Prichard, 57. "But you still have bills to pay."
Insurance companies say they have had no choice but to raise rates because of increasing health care costs and the rising number of high-dollar lawsuits and claims in Mississippi and other states.
Mississippi has gained a national reputation for multimillion-dollar verdicts and settlements.
"The legal climate is one of several factors that has us where we are," said the Mississippi insurance commissioner, George Dale. "That's what the insurance companies want to talk about. But they've also seen their investments decline in this economic downturn."
The St. Paul Companies, one of Mississippi's largest medical malpractice carriers, earlier this year requested a 75 percent rate increase for doctors in the state. The state approved a 65 percent increase.
Not satisfied, St. Paul responded by dropping a number of ob-gyns and other doctors in high-risk specialties.
Mr. Dale said he had threatened to rescind the rate increase approval if St. Paul continued to drop doctors.
Mississippi is not alone in dealing with high rates for malpractice insurance.
Gov. Bob Wise of West Virginia called lawmakers into special session last week to come up with affordable insurance options for doctors, some of whom were leaving the state.
In parts of Florida, some doctors paid nearly $160,000 last year for professional liability insurance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (69%); VERDICTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; MALPRACTICE; INSURANCE; RURAL AREAS; DOCTORS 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (84%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



788 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Competition for 2001's Hit Toy 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
There were four Billy Blazes, the New York City Fire Department firefighter who is currently the most popular of the hit Rescue Heroes action figures from Fisher-Price, remaining on the spindle at the new Toys "R" Us store in Times Square at midday on Monday.
 Suddenly, a young man rushed up, pulled them all down and thrust them into one of the mesh bags that serve as shopping carts at the store. 
 Sasha, Jade and Yasmin, three of the four Bratz dolls from MGA Entertainment, were sold out at the store and, briefly, at the Toysrus.com Web site -- although Cloe, the platinum-haired Caucasian member of the ethnically correct group, was available in abundance.
And forget about the Hogwarts Castle from Lego.
It's not even Thanksgiving, and while there is no single must-have toy this season, there are plenty of best-selling toys that may be in short supply because of the faltering economy and the events of Sept. 11. Many toy retailers kept orders light this year because of concern about the economy, but now they are betting that sales will be fairly solid during this holiday season. 
History has shown that the toy business is more resilient than other retail businesses in a recession because parents tend to cut back on spending for themselves but not for their children, if they can help it. 
This year, consumers are expected to travel less, which may leave more dollars for toys and other gifts, and there is an extra week between Thanksgiving and Christmas. All of that may be a boon for retailers across the board.
In the wake of the terrorist attacks, more emphasis is being placed on family and home, which also bodes well for the toy business -- although retailers say sales of traditional board games and classic toys like baby dolls were strong even before the terrorist attacks. 
"We really haven't changed our outlook much following Sept. 11," said Melissa Comer Williams, a toy industry analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. "We've always thought it was going to be a good holiday season for toys, driven by licensed toys tied to the Harry Potter and 'Monsters Inc.' movies and a variety of other products."
No one toy has emerged as a runaway hit, as this year's Furby or Cabbage Patch doll, but that is probably positive for the industry. "It's a better business for everyone," Ms. Comer Williams said, "if sales are spread across a broad assortment of products, rather than concentrated on one or two."
That is true, but the absence of a single blockbuster toy also has a downside. "The thing about a hit toy is it gets people back into the stores repeatedly looking for it," said Tom Alfonsi, senior vice president of merchandising at K-B Toys. "Traffic has been a little bit off, although we're looking forward to it picking up this week."
A hit could emerge tomorrow, the start of the official holiday shopping season. "When there are toys that are very strong, they usually make their appearance after Thanksgiving," said Neil Friedman, president of Fisher-Price Brands, a subsidiary of Mattel. "Tickle Me Elmo was selling fine, but it wasn't until the day after Thanksgiving in 1996 that he sold out in one day everywhere."
Fisher-Price has a new version of that smash hit for this year: Tickle Me Elmo Surprise.
From a parent's perspective, a wider variety of potential hits means less stress.
For instance, there will surely be a scramble for the two new video consoles, the Xbox from Microsoft and the GameCube from Nintendo, but the overall supply of game platforms will be greater than last year, when Sony ran into production problems with the hotly anticipated PlayStation 2. "This is the first time we've had more than one new-console introduction," Mr. Alfonsi said.
In any case, toy industry experts say PlayStation 2 will be the hottest seller in the video games segment because it has a wider supply of games, particularly popular sports games. They note that Furby had a much bigger year in 1999, when it was not the hottest toy, than it did in 1998, when it was.
"It's funny, but with all the news about the new consoles, PlayStation 2 is going to do really well, with good supply, no kinks, good games," said Chris Byrne, an independent toy consultant. "I think Sony will gain market share, and without cutting prices."
The hit retro toy of the season is Shrinky Dinks, a crafts toy formerly popular in the 1970's. Spin Master Toys, the company that makes Shrinky Dinks, filled orders for 400,000 of the kits, but Anton Rabie, president of Spin Master, said the company could have sold 200,000 more, based on inquiries from retailers in the last few weeks. 
Toys linked to characters in movies, cartoons or books continue to increase their dominance of the toy business, and the releases of two big children's movies this month, "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" from Warner Brothers and "Monsters Inc." from Disney and Pixar, make toys related to them a pretty sure-fire bet. 
One toy that is flying off the shelves so far is Glowing Bedtime Sully, a fuzzy replica of the hairy blue monster in "Monsters Inc."; it is, in effect, a huggable, talking night light. Mike Wazowski, the one-eyed monster with Billy Crystal's voice, has been selling less quickly, but Babblin' Boo, based on the little girl in the movie, has sold far better than expected. 
Hogwarts Castle from Lego and the Levitating Challenge game from Mattel are both linked to the Harry Potter movie and are selling like hotcakes. Professor Snape's Potions Class, a kit by Mattel for making drinkable "potions" with ingredients that fizz, foam, smoke and change colors, is also expected to do well.
Toy industry watchers warn that Harry Potter merchandise may be in especially short supply this season. Harry Potter products introduced a year ago did not sell well, so retailers ordered cautiously this year. "Then the excitement with the movie started three weeks ago," said Jim Silver, publisher of Toy Wishes magazine, "and the only way to describe what's happened with Harry Potter toys is that it's like a light switch suddenly got flipped on."
Those looking for educational toys are likely to gravitate to products from Leap Frog, Mr. Silver and others said. The company introduced the Imagination Desk this season, an interactive desktop, but its Leap Pad products are also expected to do well.
Among robotic toys, the brightly colored Rumble Robots from Trendmasters, introduced in May, continue to sell well, according to retailers.
But a radio-controlled skateboard toy based on Tony Hawk, the skateboarding star, has been slow to take off, they say, contrary to expectations. "I'm on a 20-city tour," said Mr. Byrne, the independent consultant, "and the only place it has been sold out is Orange County, which is where he's from."
At a list price of $60, that toy is also fairly expensive. But price has not dampened enthusiasm for e-kara, a karaoke toy, imported from Japan by Hasbro, that plugs into the television. It also has a list price of $60. 
Toy stores are particularly interested in e-kara and other karaoke toys, as well as music-related toys like the HitClips toys from Hasbro's Tiger Electronics, which appeal to the hard-to-reach girls who are preteens or young teenagers. Girls that age tend to prefer money, music-related products and clothes to toys. 
But all the debate over what's hot and what's not in the toy business may be for naught, at least when it comes to children old enough to participate in a survey. According to an online survey of 636 children 6 to 15 years old by C & R Research, a market research firm based in Chicago, clothes and sports equipment -- like bikes, scooters and skateboards -- beat out video game systems on wish lists.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Capobianco and his nephew, Adam Bauer, like Harry Potter toys. "Monster Inc." toys, below, are also popular. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Nutcracker Barbie is on display at F. A. O. Schwarz in Manhattan. Many of the toys selling well this season are old favorites. Retailers say sales of traditional board games and classic toys like dolls are strong. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (92%); RETAILERS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); BOARD GAMES (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); HIJACKING (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%) TOYS; CHRISTMAS; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PENTAGON BUILDING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: K-B TOYS (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



789 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Some Wonder Where Pataki Has Been During Uphill Fight for Billions

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
One New York politician after another spoke up last week as the White House and Congress tried to clamp down on federal aid to help New York recover from the recent terror attack. But through it all, one prominent New York politician remained curiously silent: Gov. George E. Pataki.
 Mr. Pataki's office says that nothing should be read into this, that he is a low-key politician who prefers to get things done through back channels. "He's been on the phone every day with the administration and Congressional leaders from both parties and will continue working hard to make sure New York gets the assistance it needs," said Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki. "The governor has his own style." 
 But predictably enough, some Democrats have seized this as an opportunity to attack the Republican governor, saying that he has been increasingly detached and that that could cost New York dearly in what is shaping up to be an uphill battle for the much-needed aid.
More striking, though, is that Republicans are also grumbling -- in private, at least. "It's pretty alarming that the governor has gone this far without saying much of anything," said one New York Republican official. "None of us can figure it out."
Dissatisfaction with the governor has been building for some time now. But it was kept largely behind the scenes until last week, when the governor did not take a public position on a bipartisan effort that took shape among New York House members. They tried unsuccessfully to push a measure that would have delivered $9.73 billion in aid to the state despite the president's threat of a veto.
Now, the question that Republicans and Democrats here are asking is a simple one: What gives with Mr. Pataki?
"I'm having a hard time figuring out what is going on with the governor," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat from Manhattan, adding: "I'm disappointed. I hope he changes his mind. We need the money."
Another Democrat put it this way: "He's been the most mysterious and hard to figure out person in this whole thing."
There are those who seem willing to give Mr. Pataki the benefit of the doubt. The governor, they say, appears to be engaged in what could be described as a good-cop, bad-cop strategy with the White House. According to this view, Mr. Pataki would prefer to let members of the state's Congressional delegation provoke confrontations with the White House, while he privately offers words of encouragement to move the Bush administration in New York's direction.
"In the past, the governor's office has encouraged us to fight hard for the money," said one Democratic Congressional aide from New York. "The governor's people figured they could get more things done by maintaining a positive relationship with the White House."
The problem with that approach is that it does not seem to be working, say some New York lawmakers and aides. That is why New York Republicans took the remarkable step of joining Democrats last week in pushing for more money for the state, in defiance of the White House and Republican leaders on the Hill.
Many New York lawmakers and their aides, including Republicans, say they think that Mr. Pataki could have been helpful by lending his voice to that effort. By doing so, these lawmakers said, he would have sent a strong signal to the White House and Congressional leaders that the matter was serious enough for him to expend political capital.
They also note that other prominent New York politicians jumped into the fray, for better or worse. Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg, for example, traveled to Washington and threw his support behind the efforts being waged by New York's Congressional delegation. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani got involved, too, though he attacked the effort as counterproductive.
Now, many members of the New York delegation are seriously beginning to doubt that Mr. Pataki's silence is part of a choreographed good-cop, bad-cop routine. "It seems as if the governor is making every move based on a political calculation to bolster and preserve his reputation within his party" and with President Bush, said another Democratic aide from New York.
This is not the first time that Mr. Pataki has kept silent on matters of great importance to the delegation. He recently assured the state's two Democratic senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, that he would actively support a $5 billion economic stimulus plan they introduced to revitalize Lower Manhattan in the wake of the terror attack, according to people who were familiar with the exchange. But he has said little if anything about that plan.
Another theory being offered to explain Mr. Pataki's low profile is that he is reeling from the reception he got over a $54 billion aid request he delivered to Washington a few weeks ago. That request sought money for, among other things, projects that have nothing to do with rebuilding from the attack, like a high-speed rail link to Schenectady. His plan was derided by Republicans and Democrats alike.
"I think he's shell-shocked," a Congressional aide said. "I think he got hit from so many different sides that he just went into hiding."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor Pataki did not join a state contingent in Washington. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); VETO (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (58%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



790 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Four American Companies Agree to Sell Food to Cuba
The companies -- Archer Daniels Midland, Cargill, Riceland Foods and ConAgra -- became the first in four decades to sign trade accords with Cuba and will supply food worth about $20 million to aid in the recovery from Hurricane Michelle, the president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council said. A8

Power Shift Worries Danes
Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen resigned. His party, the Social Democrats, was soundly beaten by the Liberal Party in elections on Tuesday, causing concern that the new government may become a hostage to strongly anti-immigrant forces on the far right. A17

Graves Reported in Macedonia
Human remains thought to be those of six Macedonian civilians killed during a six-month rebellion by ethnic Albanians were reportedly found in a mass grave in northwest Macedonia, the police said. A member of the government's forensic team denied the report. A18

Iran Clerics Block Reformers
The Guardians Council, the government's conservative overseers, have again rejected a new electoral law intended to bar the powerful body from blacklisting reformist political candidates, the state radio said. A6

North Korea Death Rate Rises
North Koreans are dying at a rate that is more than 40 percent higher than in 1994, when the country was hit by the first of a series of devastating floods and famines, the top executive of the World Health Organization said. A5

Violence in Philippines
Fresh fighting broke out on Jolo island, and the death toll in an uprising by guerrillas loyal to Nur Misuari, a rebellious Muslim governor, passed 100, military officials said. A10

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A24-36

Most Thanksgiving Travel Seems to Be by Road or Rail
Air travel was down an estimated 15 to 20 percent since last year's pre-Thanksgiving rush, and the lines at security checkpoints were no worse than they have been on an average weekday. The American Automobile Association estimated that car travel would constitute 87 percent of holiday trips, compared to the usual 80 percent. Increases were reported on both trains and interstate buses. A24

Fighting the Smoker Next Door
A suburban Washington county has approved a strict antismoking measure that would impose $750 fines against residents if the odor of their smoking irritates neighbors. A24

ARTS E1-14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Preventing Alzheimer's
Middle-age and elderly people who took anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen or naproxen for at least two years were apparently protected from Alzheimer's disease, a study by scientists in the Netherlands indicated. A24

Mysterious Deaths
Health officials from Minnesota and the federal government are struggling to determine what killed two of three healthy men who died suddenly within the last 11 days while recovering from routine knee surgery in Minnesota hospitals. A26

NEW YORK/REGION D1-6

Spiritual Heart of Bowery Graced by a Renovation
Workers are renovating the Gothic Revival chapel at the heart of the Bowery Mission, 227 Bowery. For 92 years, the most desperate New Yorkers have worshiped in this haven of marble and stained glass. Or at least bided their time until the free meal that follows each service. D1

TV Tower Stalled
Plans to build an enormous tower to restore television reception to thousands of New Yorkers that was knocked out when the World Trade Center antenna was destroyed seem to have stalled. D1

Ex-Governor Rules Out Race
Former Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey announced that he would not run for United States Senate next year against Democratic Senator Robert G. Torricelli. D1

Neediest Cases D5

CIRCUITS G1-10

You Talking to Me?
Cell yell, the tendency of cellphone users to speak into their phones more loudly than necessary, unwittingly involving surrounding strangers in their personal business, has become one of the more despised forms of mobile-phone behavior. Cell yell has created a subculture of cell-yell haters and given rise to a Web site, www.cellmanners.com. G1

SPORTS S1-7

OBITUARIES D9

Raymond M. Downey
A deputy chief who died commanding fire rescue units at the World Trade Center, he was 63. D9

Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Shah
The king of Malaysia and the leader of the country's 14 million Muslims was 75. D9

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Economic Prospects Brighten
The economy remains weak but may no longer be weakening, recent reports show, giving weight to the increasingly popular view that a recovery is only a few months away. C1

Mulling Over Enron Deal
Officials of Dynegy weighed whether to seek to renegotiate the company's agreement to acquire Enron, while Enron and its bankers sought to shore up its finances, executives close to the companies said. C1

The decline of Enron has devastated its workers' retirement plan, which was heavy with company stock. A1

Bull Keeps Distance
Stocks retreated further from bull-market territory as traders hesitated going into Thanksgiving. C5

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

EDITORIAL A38-39

Editorials: The deepest thanks; new anthrax evidence; burning woods; Eleanor Randolph on Michael Bloomberg.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E11
TV Listings E14
Crossword E12
Weather C10
Public Lives D2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (84%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (83%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FAMINE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); ELECTION LAW (70%); APPROVALS (68%); FORENSICS (68%); TRAINS (68%); THANKSGIVING (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); FLOODS & FLOODING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (93%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (93%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (93%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (93%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



791 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Reports Suggest That Recovery Will Be Soon, But Not Robust 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The economy remains weak but recent reports suggest it is no longer becoming any worse, giving weight to the increasingly popular view that a recovery is only a few months away. Still, the number of people who lose their jobs will probably remain high in the near future, economists say.
 For a fourth consecutive week, the number of people filing new claims for unemployment insurance fell last week, the government said yesterday. Also yesterday, a closely followed measure of consumer confidence rose slightly. Those disclosures followed reports about home building and retail sales that were better than expected and have helped send stock prices higher and bond prices sharply lower in the last 10 days. 
 But even if the optimists are correct about the economy and stocks hold their recent gains next year, large job cuts are still likely for months, economists say. Any quick recovery is not shaping up to be robust, many analysts say, and history indicates that companies often continue to cut costs until they are confident a downturn has ended.
"The unemployment rate is guaranteed to rise much further," said Ian Shepherdson, the chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., "but that will not prevent recovery." 
The University of Michigan reported yesterday that its index of consumer confidence, which is widely thought to predict retail spending, rose slightly in recent weeks. 
By themselves, the reports on unemployment and consumer confidence did little to alter investor opinion about the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 66.7 points, or 0.7 percent, to 9,834.68, but remained more than 8 percent above its level at the start of the month. The 10-year Treasury note continued its decline yesterday, falling 22/32, to a price of 100 14/32.
The reports issued yesterday suggested that even if the worst might soon be over, the economy would probably not return to the 4 percent annual growth rates of the late 1990's anytime soon.
"That we would have a recovery soon would not be surprising," said Richard T. Curtin, the director for consumer surveys at Michigan, who oversees the index. "That it would be a strong recovery would be very surprising."
Mr. Curtin added that in the months before an economic recovery, the confidence index typically rises modestly once and then significantly the following month. This time, though, the index increased slightly in both October and November, reflecting continued uncertainty among consumers, he said.
The index rose to 83.9, from 82.7 last month and 81.8 in September. It had reached 112 in January 2000. The index is calculated from a monthly telephone survey that asks consumers about their personal finances and their impressions of current business conditions.
A minority of economists still think a recovery is many months away, and they note that forecasters usually err on the side of excessive optimism. Businesses show no sign of starting to increase their investment in new equipment, while the weakening job market will crimp household spending, these worried analysts say. 
That job losses remain severe, if not quite as drastic as those in the weeks immediately after Sept. 11, is hardly a harbinger of happy days, the pessimists add. "We're still in pretty bad shape here," Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, said.
Last week, 427,000 people filed new claims for jobless benefits, a level typically seen only during recessions. That number was down from 442,000 the previous week and from a peak in late September of 535,000, which was the highest weekly figure since 1992. But the current level of claims is still more than 100,000 above the numbers more typical in the late 1990's. 
The number of people filing for continuing benefits has also fallen in recent weeks, from 3.8 million to 3.7 million, but it remains higher than it was at any point in the 1990-91 downturn. 
Reflecting the concern about the strength of the recovery, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a research group for most of the big industrial nations, predicted this week that the United States economy would grow only 0.7 percent next year. 
The 1990-91 recession followed a path similar to what many forecasters envision for this one. It ended in March 1991 after nine months, analysts agreed. But the economy continued to grow only slowly for almost two years. Total employment did not exceed its June 1990 peak of 109.9 million until April 1993.
Earlier this month, a group of academic economists considered by their peers to be the arbiters of the business cycle said that a recession might have begun in March.
Employment peaked that month at 132.7 million jobs and has since fallen to 131.8 million, according to the government's October jobs report. The economy lost 415,000 jobs last month, the most since 1980.
But many investors and economists said the reports strengthened their belief that a turning point is near. "The biggest job losses are now over," Mr. Shepherdson said. As long as companies continue to cut jobs, however, the unemployment rate, which has already risen to 5.4 percent from 3.9 percent only 13 months earlier, will continue to rise.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows number of initial jobless claims, measured in thousands, from June through November highlighting 4 week moving average.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Market)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BONDS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RETAIL SALES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); MARKETING SURVEYS (56%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



792 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Remembrance In the Capital Of Resilience

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
WHAT is it like in New York now, people ask, and you try to tell them, but nothing quite conveys it.
 How to explain an aching but resolute city celebrating Thanksgiving today, 10 weeks after a brutal assault that shook the collective soul? How to explain this vast, diverse place where two neighborhoods mourned yet another tragedy last weekend even as joyous children mobbed a new Toys "R" Us? Where soup kitchens are overrun, but popular restaurants still don't take last-minute reservation? 
 New York today is a place of mixed emotions, images and realities. People go to work every day on packed subways, and tourists gape from the upper reaches of double-decker buses. But thousands are out of work. And the lower level of those buses has seats to spare. 
Perhaps the worst part of being in New York now is the eerie feeling of moving backward. Homelessness and hunger are growing, office space is going begging, budget deficits loom, tax increases and deferred salary increases seem inevitable, the White House is balking about money. The headlines shout about brutal child abuse, the killings of innocent bystanders, subway violence -- crimes that New Yorkers almost believed were in the past.
Yes, the parallels are uneven. Major crimes, including murder, are still significantly lower than last year, profoundly lower than eight years ago. The city is solvent. President Bush is not Gerald R. Ford.
But it feels bad and sad, even frightening. For people who were around in the crime-ridden 1980's and near-bankrupt 1970's, the echoes of those benighted times are unsettling. It is tough not to fear a return of those trying days, tough not to worry that the city, so recently prosperous, could collapse into urban decay once again.
So much of what happens in this city is, after all, beyond its control, from the vicissitudes of the national economy to the twisted agendas of terrorists.
But New Yorkers do control their distinct spirit. When people say they love New York, they really mean they love its energy and resilience, its agile ability to reinvent itself just when things look bleakest.
The city is well-practiced in the art of renewal. In 1977, when a nationally scorned New York was struggling back from the brink of bankruptcy, The New York Times published a lead editorial about, of all things, the operetta "Show Boat." That piece, written by Roger Starr, an author and editorial board member who died on Sept. 10 at the age of 83, exhorted New Yorkers to draw on the best of themselves. Their spirit.
The editorial, called "Smile, Nola, Smile," reminded readers that "Show Boat" is about Magnolia Hawks Ravenal, daughter of Cap'n Andy Hawks, the showboat's impresario.
Magnolia eloped with the leading man of the showboat company, an incurable gambler named Gaylord Ravenal, prone to losing streaks. Magnolia ultimately realized she had to make her own living and returned to the stage and made her debut in a Chicago restaurant on New Year's Eve.
MAGNOLIA, or Nola to friends and family, did not have an auspicious beginning. She could not be heard above a mocking audience of inebriated revelers.
"As her career lay in ashes about her, and starvation at the hands of her wastrel husband loomed ahead, Cap'n Andy unexpectedly rose to his feet and called to his daughter above the chaos of the room: 'Smile, Nola, Smile!' " wrote Mr. Starr.
"This precious advice carried the day," continued the editorial. Magnolia gathered up her confidence. "As the onstage audience gradually controlled its raucousness, her physical stature grew, her voice swelled, her presence asserted itself and her independence from Ravenal was established. Her future career was assured. At the brink of the New Year, certain defeat was turned into gallant victory."
Follow Cap'n Andy's lead, Mr. Starr advised New Yorkers. 
"We do not suggest that smiling will carry the day, but rather that the confidence to draw on past strengths and traditions provides, as did Cap'n Andy for Magnolia, the emotional basis for successful exploitation of New York skills.
" 'Smile, Nola, Smile!' calls on New Yorkers to remember their proven capacity for achievement, the better to prepare for the hard work, the bitter choices, the probably unequal sacrifices that lie ahead."
So, what is New York like on this Thanksgiving? Fundamentally, it is as it has ever been. Cap'n Andy would have liked the place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); WRITERS (64%); MURDER (57%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; THANKSGIVING DAY 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



793 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Replacement For TV Tower Lost on Sept. 11 Is in Doubt 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Plans to build an enormous television tower to replace the one atop the World Trade Center are in doubt. The efforts have stalled despite growing pressure from television executives concerned about losing millions of viewers and the advertising dollars they attract.
 The plan, proposed after the terrorist attack, calls for building a 2,000-foot tower to replace the trade center's antenna mast, which served all but one of the 11 television stations in the New York region. 
 Four possible locations were floated to replace the antennas. Their loss knocked out reception to viewers without cable or satellite service in large slices of the city, shrinking the audience size just as advertising revenues were dropping because of the weakening economy. 
Even with the support of Gov. George E. Pataki and Senator Charles E. Schumer, however, the plans to build the tower seem to have stalled for many reasons, including concerns about radiation, bird migratory paths, airline flight patterns, electricity and other cities' broadcast needs. Such issues have eliminated three of the four proposed sites for the tower: the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island, the Brooklyn Navy Yard and the Empire State Building.
The remaining proposed site, Governors Island, is facing opposition from preservationists, environmentalists and state legislators, who are unwilling to approve crucial exemptions to environmental and zoning regulations that Governor Pataki has advocated. In addition, Mayor-elect Michael R. Bloomberg has other plans for the island. 
The bill Governor Pataki introduced in late September that would exempt the tower -- wherever it is built -- from environmental review, height restrictions, zoning regulations and other local laws has not gone over well in Albany, legislative leaders say.
The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said in an interview that Democrats would not even consider the bill in its current form. "I am not prepared to give a blank check," he said. "Even with the site picked, I am not sure why we would avoid every local law designed to protect the public and give the public a say."
Those objections are threatening to derail plans to restore signals to the entire New York region, a prospect that so concerns television executives that the chairman of one media conglomerate brought the issue up in a recent lunch meeting with Vice President Dick Cheney.
The site for the tower proposed by the Metropolitan Television Association, a group of 11 New York region stations formed after the attack to address the issue, could take up to 30 acres. The tower itself would be 2,000 feet tall, about 300 feet higher than the mast that was on top of the trade center's north tower. The cost is estimated at $40 million, to be shared among the stations.
Unlike the other sites, Governors Island would not interfere with airplane paths, nor has it yet posed any similar safety issues, but legislators say other concerns about the environment and development of the island would get in the way.
The battle is commanding attention at the highest levels of each of the major networks -- ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox -- because hundreds of millions of dollars in advertising are at stake. "A third of the population does not have cable," said Mitchell Stern, the chairman of Fox Television Stations, which owns WNYW (Channel 5) and WWOR (Channel 9) in New York. Cable and satellite viewers are unaffected.
According to a draft position paper that has not yet been released, television executives estimate that about one million households, or roughly three million people, are without one or more channels. The numbers are the worst in Brooklyn, where 240,000 homes are without one or more stations, officials said. In each neighborhood, the lowest cable penetration rates are among the poor, the elderly and minority populations.
One station, WNJU (Channel 47), which has set up a temporary antenna on a 900-foot tower in Alpine, N.J., estimates that it has lost about 30 percent of its audience since the attack.
"There is a lot of cable coverage with the Hispanic audience, but the two boroughs that suffer the most in terms of cable penetration are Queens and Brooklyn, and those boroughs are very ethnic," said Ramon J. Pineda, vice president and general manager of WNJU, a Spanish-language station. 
Bill Baker, the president of WNET (Channel 13) and the chairman of the Metropolitan Television Association, said the issue was also economic. "One of the things that concerns us the most is that we serve everyone in this community, the richest and the poorest, and that we be available to everyone free of charge," he said. 
Every station in the New York area except WXTV (Channel 41) had an antenna on the trade center. WCBS (Channel 2) has a backup antenna at the Empire State Building, and WWOR and WNYW were able to quickly install high power transmitters on that building after Sept. 11.
The short-term plan is for each station to get some kind of antenna on top of the Empire State Building. But in the long term it is unlikely that the building would be a feasible site. "Expensive reconstruction would be necessary that would be extremely costly and take too long to complete," the draft of the position paper reads. "Radiation at the site, which is already a concern to tenants, would be exacerbated."
Station engineers estimate that more electrical power would have to be piped up more than 100 floors from the ground to serve all stations. Reinforcing the roof and reconfiguring it for broadcast transmitters, including newly configured digital transmitters, could take years, officials said.
Fresh Kills was ruled out because it is close enough to Philadelphia to interfere with television signals in that area. A Brooklyn Navy Yard tower would violate Federal Aviation Administration regulations because it would be in the flight path of planes using La Guardia Airport. 
Governors Island would also have problems. Mr. Bloomberg said in October that he wanted to put high schools on the island. Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said this week that no television executives or officials in the Pataki administration had contacted him about a plan to build a tower there. 
The federal government would still have to sell the island or give it away for the tower to be built. Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration have said that they would like to sell the island to the highest bidder.
In Albany, the New York State Broadcasters Association has hired William D. Powers, the former chairman of the State Republican Party, as a lobbyist to work with the administration and the Legislature. Joe Reilly, the president of the association, said, "The Senate and Assembly don't want to give a blank check without some specificity as to where it is going to be because, as one guy put it to me, 'It would be a political nightmare if they put it by homes in my district.' "
To that end, lobbyists for NBC, CBS, ABC and Fox in Washington, as well as executives of the companies, have taken the issue of using Governors Island up with Congressional leaders and senior Bush officials. 
If the plan for Governors Island does not work, station executives said, some of the channels will probably break off from Metropolitan Television Association and begin looking for smaller, less cumbersome sites on their own.
"There may be other locations, without damaging the environment and without asking every government agency, whining and crying and screaming, to 'please help me,' " one senior network executive said. "That theme is a real hard sell when you are part of a multibillion-dollar media company." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ZONING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (86%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); MAYORS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); AIRLINES (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); LANDFILLS (66%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TELEVISION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%); DICK CHENEY (53%) BLAIR, JAYSON; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



794 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 The Metro Matters column on Monday, about unemployed New Yorkers who discussed their job searches, misstated the month that one of them, Sari Gadlin, was laid off from a nonprofit association. It was September, not April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (85%) LABOR; CORRECTION STORIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: GADLIN, SARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



795 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Educating the World 

BYLINE:  By Gene Sperling; Gene Sperling, director of the Forum on Universal Education at the Brookings Institution, was Bill Clinton's national economic adviser from 1997 to 2001.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Beyond being horrified by stories of Taliban militants beating a 6-year-old girl for carrying a notebook, as reported by Newhouse News Service, and warning a classroom of girls in an underground school that they would be burned alive if they returned the next day, as related in U.S. News & World Report, Americans are pained by the simple reality that any government would ban school for girls.
 Afghanistan is moving beyond the Taliban, but schooling may remain inaccessible not only to many of its girls, but to their brothers. Around the world, 125 million children 6 to 11 years old are out of school, most because of a lack of school buildings, textbooks and qualified teachers as well as inability to pay for school fees, uniforms and transportation. Girls, who make up two-thirds of the unschooled children, are also held back by cultural pressures, parental fear for their security, and a lack of female teachers and bathroom facilities. 
 In Afghanistan, education was hard to get even before the Taliban regime: in 1996, 90 percent of girls and nearly two-thirds of boys were not going to school. In Pakistan, the all-male madrassas, fundamentalist Islamic schools, prosper because less than 2 percent of the nation's gross domestic product is devoted to public education. In 12 nations in sub-Saharan Africa, fewer than half of 8-year-olds are enrolled in school.
If the world really wants Afghanistan to reinvent itself as a stable and functional nation, it must help Afghans assure education for their children. And at the same time, the United States and other wealthy nations should seize the moment to get all of the world's children into school.
The goal of universal education is not solely a Western aspiration. In Dakar, Senegal, in 2000, 180 nations committed to the goal of universal education by 2015 for boys and girls. They included Iran, Iraq, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Indonesia and most of the other nations of Africa, South Asia and Latin America. Leaders trying to develop their nations' economies know the advantages. Not only does each year of schooling in the poorest nations raise people's earning power by 10 to 20 percent, but recent research also demonstrates that girls' education leads to smaller, healthier families.
The cause of universal education is stunningly neglected. The United Nations Children's Fund estimates that an additional $9.1 billion would be needed each year to reach the goal set for 2015. That is probably understated. Total American spending on education in poor countries is only $150 million to $200 million a year.
Congress and the president should raise our commitment to basic education to $1 billion a year and challenge the rest of the world to match us proportionally. This help would be most effective if it was accompanied by more American and international financing to reduce hunger, poverty and the spread of AIDS. We should also call on the World Bank and the United Nations to work with the rich and poor countries on a coordinated global program for basic education. It should lay out responsibilities for all countries in promoting basic education. It should introduce peer review boards to evaluate the education plans of the nations receiving aid.
We cannot count on education to end the threat of terrorism; indeed, many of the suicide hijackers of Sept. 11 were highly educated. However, a major American commitment to achieving universal education would give millions of poor children more hope and greater opportunities for choosing constructive futures. It would also be a profound demonstration of our heart and humanity at a time when we are so confounded by those who cheer acts of violence against us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); TERRORISM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WOMEN (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FAMILY (75%); MEN (74%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); WOMEN WORKERS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); RELIGION (51%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: SPERLING, GENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); SYRIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



796 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: After Danish Vote, Anxiety Over the Rightists 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
A big swing to the right in Denmark's election on Tuesday has caused concern that the new center-right government may become a hostage to strongly anti-immigrant forces on the far right.
 The Liberal Party, led by Anders Fogh Rasmussen, 48, eclipsed the Social Democrats, led by the departing prime minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, in the election for the first time since the 1920's. (The Rasmussens are not related.) 
 Prime Minister Rasmussen formally handed his resignation to Queen Margrethe today. 
But the next prime minister, though dealing a fresh blow to Scandinavia's once-mighty Social Democrats, will have to depend on support from the anti-immigration Danish People's Party for a parliamentary majority.
The People's Party leader, Pia Kjaersgaard, has exploited fears about Muslims since the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11. She has urged far stricter limits on immigration and once said she crossed the street to avoid meeting a Muslim.
"It's clear I'm worried," said Goran Persson, Sweden's prime minister, a Social Democrat. "We now see a center-right government which will be forced to prop itself up with anti-foreigner ideas."
Mr. Fogh Rasmussen, a former economy minister in Denmark, promised stricter immigration laws, a cap on taxation and improved hospitals. He rebuffed expressions of concern from some fellow Liberals abroad. Immigrants in Copenhagen are distressed.
"I often get called names when I go out on the town for a beer, and the ugly remarks increased after Sept. 11," said Wallid el-Amrani, a 24-year-old student from Jordan who said he might try to move to "a less hostile country."
"I fear things could get worse with this new government," said Zarah Ahmed, a 36-year-old shopkeeper from Syria who said immigrants had been made scapegoats for the failings of Denmark's welfare system.
In Sweden, the daily newspaper Dagens Nyheter was blunt. "It is difficult to point to any winner in the Danish election, but the losers are easier to identify," it said. "They are all those with dark skin, humanism and decency. Goodnight Denmark."
The amount of Danish aid to developing nations is the largest in the world as a percentage of gross domestic product, and for the first time, two immigrants won seats in parliament in Tuesday's election.
Fewer than 5 percent of Denmark's 5.3 million people are foreigners, a smaller proportion than in many European countries.
Danish newspapers welcomed the landslide upset of the Social Democrats, saying it showed that Danes were fed up after nine years under Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen, the European Union's longest-serving prime minister. "It is clear that a basic desire for change played a role," Politiken said.
Mr. Fogh Rasmussen's center-right bloc won 98 seats in Parliament, against 77 for Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen's bloc.
Mr. Fogh Rasmussen's Liberals have 56 seats and are likely to form a minority coalition with the 16 seats of the Conservatives and the 4 of the Christian People's Party.
It will depend on informal support from the 22 members of the Danish People's Party, but Mr. Fogh Rasmussen has ruled out giving them seats in his cabinet. Thus Denmark will not swing as far right as Austria, where the Freedom Party of Jorg Haider has seats in government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); RELIGION (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (58%)

PERSON: ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (90%); MARGRETHE II, QUEEN OF DENMARK (58%) RASMUSSEN, POUL NYRUP (PRIME MIN); RASMUSSEN, ANDERS FOGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (92%) DENMARK (95%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (92%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%) DENMARK

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



797 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE UNEMPLOYED; 
Ground Zero Cleanup Jobs Prove Slow to Materialize

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
A city-financed program seeking work for welfare recipients and dislocated workers has recruited at least 150 people for $9-an-hour cleanup jobs at or near the World Trade Center site.
 Recruiters at the program, Training Solutions Inc., said that they had told the people who signed up that they should be willing to work 12-hour shifts in the rubble and amid toxic fumes. 
 But the jobs those recruiters were hired to fill have not yet materialized, and the exact nature of the work is unclear. 
The company that placed the order, Adecco, an international temporary staffing business, insisted that the jobs would be safe and only involve work cleaning the interiors of buildings affected by the collapse of the trade center. 
Executives at Adecco confirmed that in late September it had placed the job order for at least 200 workers -- on behalf of a prospective client it would not identify -- with more than one welfare-to-work organization in the city.
But Bob Kovalsky, a regional vice president at Adecco, a publicly traded corporation with world headquarters in Switzerland, said that the client, "a private enterprise located outside of New York," had told Adecco on Friday not to proceed with hiring. 
"At this point, the prospective client has put us on hold," Mr. Kovalsky said. "I'm not sure of the reasons why."
The recruiters at Training Solutions said that the job offers were repeatedly delayed because of recurrent safety questions, fears of union opposition and the politics at ground zero. 
"It was supposed to start about two weeks ago," said one recruiter, Robert L. Tucker, a consultant for Training Solutions who said he had signed up 150 would-be workers at Adecco's request. "The mayor was supposed to give clearance."
Instead, Mr. Tucker said, an Adecco representative kept delaying the start date. 
Several telephone calls seeking comment from city officials, including Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles, were not returned. 
The recruitment has taken place in the shadow of a series of politically volatile disputes over the number and safety of firefighters at ground zero, and against a backdrop of looming federal welfare time limits. 
By any definition, cleaning up the World Trade Center area represents the biggest public works project in the city. Earlier this month, the Giuliani administration told contractors now removing debris that it would soon hire the Bechtel Group, a politically connected construction giant based in San Francisco, to oversee the $1 billion project. 
Union leaders said they feared that Bechtel would turn to nonunion labor and outside contractors to complete the work.
As recently as early November, one faction within the city's Human Resources Administration was advocating that welfare recipients be offered temporary jobs tied to the World Trade Center cleanup, said an expert on welfare policy who had been briefed on some of the discussions. 
The city agency is trying hard to further reduce the already shrunken welfare rolls before the end of the Giuliani administration. About 32,800 recipients are facing the five-year federal time limit on Dec. 2. In recent weeks, the city has offered $9-an-hour jobs in the parks to hundreds of them. Some, too, have been referred through the city's privatized welfare-to-work contractors, called Employment Services Programs, to large temporary staffing companies like Adecco. 
At Training Solutions, a shabby warren of classrooms in an old Hunter College building near the Port Authority terminal, an ungrammatical sign warns, "All ESP client's who refuse a job that is offered to them risk getting sanction for non compliance." Under state law, recipients who run out the federal welfare clock are still eligible to apply for a state aid program known as Safety Net Assistance, financed without federal money. But any able-bodied person who refuses a specific job without good cause is to be denied aid. 
On Monday morning, half a dozen men were waiting at Training Solutions to speak to Mr. Tucker and his partner, the consultants who had registered them for World Trade Center cleanup. The men's complaint was that the jobs kept being postponed, not that the work might be dangerous. 
"They told me about it -- a lot of debris, chemicals and stuff," said Ricardo Andino, 25, who said he was impatient to begin work after responding a month ago to an advertisement about the World Trade Center jobs posted in a Bronx public school. "It's really hazardous, but I need a job." 
John Harris, 51, who has a ninth-grade education and was laid off in June from a maintenance job he had held since 1994, echoed the sentiment. 
"I got to feed my family some kind of way," he said after anxiously recalling news reports about cancer-causing fumes near ground zero. "I can't worry about 20 years down the road -- I need a job now."
The director of Training Solutions, Henry M. Stern, said the recession added to the desperation of people seeking work, and to the intense financial pressure felt by city-contract agencies like his own. 
The agency, which specializes in training dislocated workers in electronics repair, has been operating without any city money since September, he said.
"The city's attitude is, 'We'll only pay you when you place them,' " Mr. Stern said. "Is the city interested in training? Not one bit. The city is only interested in job placement." 
He added, "We've spent weeks on this thing."
Starting in 1999, state and federal grants previously given to the city's Department of Employment were transferred by the Giuliani administration to the Human Resources Administration, which then signed contracts with companies that would be paid, with some small exceptions, only if they succeeded in placing welfare recipients in jobs. 
Mr. Tucker said he had been director of job development for the Wildcat Service Corporation, a large nonprofit training and employment agency with many city contracts, before going into business for himself as Urban Placement Brokers Inc. this year. He said that he and his partner would not be paid unless their recruits were actually hired. 
"What's in it for me," Mr. Tucker asked. "To recruit people to sell them a dream?" 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite hearing news reports about cancer-causing fumes near ground zero, John Harris, 51, who was laid off in June, said he had to feed his family. "I can't worry about 20 years down the road -- I need a job now." (Carol Halebian for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); TERRORISM (74%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONTRACTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: ADECCO SA (92%); BECHTEL GROUP INC (81%)

TICKER: ADI1 (FRA) (92%); ADEN (SWX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%) SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES; 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (75%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



798 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Welcome Back, Politics!

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Come the spring, the White House chief of staff, Andrew Card, will move to Massachusetts to compete for the Republican nomination for governor. (The race is not always to the Swift.) This is Card's lifelong ambition, and maybe the entry of a fresh face will stop the slide of G.O.P.-held statehouses into Democratic hands. 
 He will be replaced in that top political power slot by Tom Ridge, the former Pennsylvania governor who is now grimly trying to run "homeland security" from the president's side without the needed muscle to knock departmental heads together. 
 That move up will make Ridge happy and productive, but who can Bush get with the reputation -- and the go-for-the-jugular political moxie -- to take on the job of protecting us from any new terror attacks after we blow up the Cave Man? 
Answer: Rudy Giuliani, of course, provided the refugee from Gracie Mansion gets the bureaucratic power to hire and fire, urge and merge, recommended months ago by the Hart-Rudman commission. In three months as a private citizen, Rudy can make three million bucks and then get back into politics and into the running for vice president against Rummy and Condi when Bush names non-lawyer Dick Cheney to the next open seat on the Supreme Court. 
You, as a paying reader (unless you're one of those Internet freeloaders), must wonder: How does he get all this exclusive inside information? How can he be so certain of things to come -- when other journalists equivocate and hide behind attributions to rumor and gossip? 
Let me break all the rules of punditry and reveal the single source for this stunning report of musical chairs: It's my thumb, on which I suck while I stare at the wall and dream up this stuff. 
Here is the trick in the political prognostication dodge: Take what you know to be true and then play fast and loose with the possible. 
I know that Card wants to run in Massachusetts, and today Acting Gov. Jane Swift does look like a loser. I know from the look on his face at news conferences that Ridge is unhappy to be on the firing line with no troops of his own, and presume he would make a fine chief of staff because Bush trusts him. And I know that Giuliani will be miserable following Bill Clinton around on the big-fee lecture circuit, and will soon lust for a return to power's center stage. 
String these possibilities together, and voila! a nifty scenario that will cause hushed huzzahs in West Wing hallways half-empty on Thanksgiving. (If none of this happens, I can pull an Ashcroft, explaining that only my alert to the world of its credible possibility prevented it from happening. And if I do get lucky and win the trifecta, you'll never hear the end of it.) 
All the above is "talkin' politics," which is fun, but some have been quietly "doin' politics," which is work: 
1. An education bill this year looks good as Ted Kennedy squeezes in a little more spending, but a prescription drug bill is pushed off to next year. 
2. Bush and Kennedy are in a lazily foolish wrangle over appointments to the F.D.A. and the N.I.H., frustrating the nation's scientists, but Bill Frist will push the bioterrorism bill through the Senate to signature with billions for public health facilities. 
3. Tax-cut prospects look bad because the House's Bill Thomas won't go in the room with big-spender Bobby Byrd, to the point where the Democrat Max Baucus is begging Bush to lean on Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, for help. No bill means no $80 billion stimulus and therefore a half-point drop in G.D.P. 
4. Campaign reform is dead this year, and there is little public demand for a vote-counting bill, despite the early hoo-hah. 
5. Fast-track trade promotion will be decided next week, with Bush pushing hard to get 40 House Democrats to buck organized labor and Charlie Rangel. 
6. New York gets half of its promised $20 billion now, with the other half maybe later in the fast-disappearing stimulus package, the bioterror bill and supplementals. New building is stymied by trial lawyers' opposition to caps on liability in government-backed "terror insurance." 
Daschle, in the dumps, is digging in his heels. Bush, at 90 percent, is disinclined to mix it up. Now back to all war, allatime. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TERRORISM (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); JOURNALISM (68%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); REFUGEES (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); THANKSGIVING (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



799 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Signals From Russia On Prospects for Oil Cutbacks 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Russia sent mixed signals today but no definitive word on whether it would cooperate with other oil exporters outside OPEC in cutting production.
 As a result, petroleum prices bounced around on each nuance, finishing the day somewhat lower after an early upward spike. The benchmark price for January delivery of light crude fell 19 cents, to $18.96 a barrel in New York trading today; it rose 72 cents a barrel on Tuesday on word that Mexico and Norway, the No. 2 and No. 3 non-OPEC exporters after Russia, had agreed to make much larger cuts if Russia would do the same. 
 Today, Russia's intentions were no clearer. Viktor Khristenko, Russia's deputy prime minister in charge of energy, said again that his government might be willing to reconsider its previous offer of a token cutback of 30,000 barrels a day in exports.
"The adoption of more serious measures aimed at stabilizing oil price levels is possible," the Russian news service Interfax quoted Mr. Khristenko as saying.
But the finance minister, Alexei L. Kudrin, told parliamentary leaders today that the government would reduce its projections for economic growth and government revenue from oil sales, a sign that the country was digging in for an extended period of lower prices. And Russia's biggest oil company, Lukoil, said it was planning its own budget for 2002 based on a $16-a-barrel oil price.
Perhaps most tellingly, the economic adviser to President Vladimir V. Putin came out strongly against acceding to requests by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to reduce shipments.
"Question -- what should we do with OPEC?" the adviser, Andrei N. Illarionov, said at a news conference. "Answer -- nothing, because OPEC is an unreliable partner; because OPEC is a historically doomed organization; because, in the price war declared against us, Russia is in a much more advantageous position than OPEC."
Analysts here tried to sense whether the recent slump in oil prices had begun to squeeze Russia's economy enough to eventually lead the country to go along with OPEC. Russia's treasury relies heavily on oil and gas revenue, and investment in the energy sector has helped jump-start the nation's economic growth.
Economists said Russia's reserves of foreign currency -- now about $36 billion -- and a budget surplus this year of some $3.5 billion would cushion the government against much damage to next year's budget.
"Budget-wise, they are in a very strong position," said Willem H. Buiter, chief economist for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development at a news conference in Moscow. "Russia has conducted its macroeconomic policy exceptionally well. Even oil prices at $12 could be managed."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since June 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (61%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; PRODUCTION; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; LUKOIL 

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (67%); LKOD (LSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%)

PERSON: VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; KHRISTENKO, VIKTOR (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); KUDRIN, ALEKSEI L (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%) ; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 



800 of 1063 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Trump Begins Negotiations On $1.3 Billion in Bond Debt
Donald J. Trump has begun talks with bondholders to adjust the terms of $1.3 billion in debt and is now expected to pay $73 million in interest past due on those bonds within days, a lawyer for Mr. Trump said.
 Mr. Trump announced the day before the interest was due that he would not make the payment, even though he had the cash to do so. Some bondholders considered the missed payment a negotiating tactic by Mr. Trump, who could use a decline in the securities to put pressure on them to come to the table. Page C2. 

No Decision From Russia on Oil Cuts
Russia sent mixed signals on whether it would cooperate with other oil exporters outside OPEC in cutting back production, causing prices to fall. In New York, crude oil for January delivery fell 19 cents, to $18.96 a barrel. It rose 72 cents a barrel on Tuesday when Mexico and Norway, the No. 2 and No. 3 non-OPEC exporters after Russia, agreed to make much larger cuts if Russia would do the same. C4.

Drugs Said to Forestall Alzheimer's
Middle-aged and elderly people who took anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen or naproxen for at least two years were apparently protected from Alzheimer's disease, according to a new study. A24.

Chairman of ABB Steps Down
Percy Barnevik, the chairman of ABB, Europe's biggest electrical engineering group, unexpectedly stepped down, saying he was taking his share of responsibility for sagging profits. World Business, Section W.

Vitamin Producers Fined in Europe
The European Commission fined eight vitamin producers a total of about $752 million for their involvement in cartels that fixed prices and market shares of vitamin products in the 1990's. World Business, Section W.

Stocks Retreat From Bull Market
Stocks retreated further from bull-market territory. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 66.70 points, or 0.7 percent, to 9,834.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 5.63 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,137.03, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 5.46 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,875.05. C5.

Microsoft Lawyer Plans to Retire
William H. Neukom, 60, the legal field general in Microsoft's antitrust conflicts, said that he would retire next year. His announcement came on the heels of two major settlements engineered this month by Mr. Neukom and his team -- both regarded as victories for Microsoft -- and as the company's antitrust problems appear to be finally receding. C3.

PepsiCo Settles Advertising Dispute
PepsiCo and the world's largest advertising agency company, the Interpublic Group, settled a legal battle stemming from PepsiCo's efforts to restrict an Interpublic agency in working for its main competitor, Coca-Cola, after PepsiCo dismissed the agency. C3.

Usinor Sweetens Offer for Rivals
Usinor of France breathed new life into its $2.76 billion bid for two rivals -- Aceralia of Spain and Arbed of Luxembourg -- by sweetening the takeover terms and winning regulatory approval. World Business, Section W.

Finding Ways to Lend in Poor Nations
The high interest rates charged by moneylenders in developing countries suggest that marginal investment opportunities there are much more profitable than in advanced industrial nations. One model has managed to overcome the local barriers that have prevented Western banks from exploiting such opportunities. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

U.S. Financial Markets Are Closed
United States government offices, banks and financial markets are closed today in observance of Thanksgiving. Foreign markets are open. Most United States markets will reopen tomorrow, but stock markets will close at 1 p.m. and the bond markets will close at 2 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,834.68 down 66.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,875.05 down 5.4610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.95% up 0.08The euro -- $0.8794 down 0.0033The dollar -- 123.10 yen down 0.45 Graph tracks the daily closing price of crude oil for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); CARTELS (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); MARKET SHARE (68%); AGING (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); RESEARCH REPORTS (52%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); PEPSICO INC (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); PEP (NYSE) (50%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) EUROPE (90%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001 

 
