

801 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Joining Vistage, A Business Group

BYLINE: By MP MUELLER

 BODY:
As kids, when we used to wrestle and play around, we had an expression for when someone had you pinned, and you were in enough pain that you wanted to concede -- you would yell, ''calf rope!'' The rodeo term is not one I have used in running my business. At least not until recently.
When I started my advertising business 17 years ago in Austin, Tex., I knew I needed to learn some things about running the business. A steady diet of self-help, business and motivational books taught me just enough, and my instincts took over from there. And then luck kicked in. We eventually grew to more than $8 million a year in annual revenue. But the lingering effects of the recession left me scrambling a bit late last year when many of our clients cut their ad budgets for the second year in a row. 
There was a time when I could check the bank account balance monthly, and things would always work out. Those days are over. More recently, whenever my staff looks to me for answers, I dance as fast as I can and try to make it look effortless, but the answers that come out often sound hollow. Gradually, I have accepted that I need some new financial tools. I have to start making better projections and paying attention to the right ratios. I need to get some advice on when to pull the trigger when hiring additional employees.
These thoughts had been building for some time, but something really clicked when, in an exit interview, a departing employee asked, ''Why hasn't this company grown more?'' This person clearly had been expecting a bigger career arc here. And, it bothered me that we hadn't managed to produce one. We have never expanded meteorically like other agencies. Of course, we have never had layoffs either, something that is very important to me. But why haven't we grown more? I came to the conclusion that maybe I didn't know what I didn't know.
Yes, I was in need of some real time, real world advice. And while friends and family are wonderful and well-meaning, I have learned it's best to stick to questions like, ''How do you grill a turkey?'' So, last fall, I began to think again about joining a business group, the kind where you meet regularly with other owners and talk about what's working and what isn't.
I had been approached a few years ago to join Vistage by a client who belonged. I attended one session and decided it wasn't a good fit or investment. At the time, the meetings seemed a bit too structured for me, and I didn't really connect with the group chair. Three years, and a recession later, a guy who serves on a nonprofit board with me and whose business acumen I respect, encouraged me to meet with his Vistage group chair.
I was first vetted over drinks by a couple of the group's members, a tradition they use to conduct chemistry checks. The checks, I learned, are important in a group that reveals all to one another with a pledge of complete silence to the outside world (a pledge I will not violate in these posts). As we were leaving, these two personable, accomplished businessmen gave each other a hug and said, ''I love you man.'' Somehow, as I contemplated becoming the only woman in a group of men, that openness reassured me. Of course, I was also impressed by a 2010 Dun & Bradstreet analysis (pdf) that showed Vistage member companies in the United States had grown between 2005 and 2009 at an average annual rate of 5.8 percent while other D&B companies had declined at an average annual rate of 9.2 percent. Sign me up.
The concept of Vistage is to gather chief executives from complementary businesses into small groups. There is a group chair, usually a former chief executive who enjoys mentoring others, who organizes the monthly all-day meetings, and who also meets monthly with each member one-on-one for an hour and a half or so to offer individual coaching. When I first met our group chair, Bill LaRosa, a native New Yorker and a former global semiconductor executive who dresses Savile Row but with handmade, exotic leather cowboy boots, I was a little hesitant. Could my small business benefit from someone who had spent much of his time in huge corporations?
It turns out it could. Bill sees his business group as extended family, sincerely wants you to succeed and is truly on the leader board for smarts. For all of his corporate experience, his demeanor is closer to that of a counselor or therapist. He never tells you what to do; he leads you to a logical course of action through a series of smart questions. Recognizing that success is holistic, our one-on-one and group meetings always start with a numerical assessment -- one for poor, five for great -- of how each member is doing in three areas: health, personal and business. In our one-on-one sessions, we sometimes spend more time talking about family matters than business. And there's a release in that, too. Getting feedback on personal matters can free your mind to focus better on issues that affect your business more directly.
The fact that I am the only woman in this group has had its advantages. Much of my thinking and communications style is high-touch relationship centered. While this can be a strength, I also recognize it has shortcomings. I want to assimilate a more direct approach. At one point, the group asked how I felt about cursing. I responded with a sentence that included some four-letter evidence that I'm O.K. with it. It was a bonding moment.
Part of the appeal is the supportive honesty. While I encourage people at the agency to be honest with one another and with me, I know there's always a tendency to hold back a bit around bosses. It's been refreshing to have someone say, as Bill did, ''I'm not going to accept that, MP. What is it I'm not understanding?'' I think it was in response to my saying that I didn't know what to do about a certain business challenge. Deep down, of course, I really did know. But I needed someone to tell me that.
More on what I'm getting from my Vistage experience in my next post.
MP Mueller is the founder of Door Number 3, a boutique advertising agency in Austin, Tex. Follow Door Number 3 on Facebook.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); LAYOFFS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



802 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Departure Shakes Wichita and It's Identity as Airplane Capital

BYLINE: By A.G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
WICHITA, Kan. -- The crowd gathered at the local headquarters for Boeing was euphoric. The company had just won one of the largest military contracts in history. Thousands of the resulting jobs, Boeing had promised, would be headed here, to the sprawling manufacturing complex where residents have been building airplanes for generations.
''It's good for Kansas, it's good for Wichita and it's a great day to be alive here and to profess victory,'' said Senator Pat Roberts, part of the political team that spent a decade battling on behalf of the company. ''Every once in a while the good guys win.''
That celebration last February was supposed to confirm this city's enduring status as the ''Air Capital of the World.'' But less than a year later, on Jan. 4, Boeing executives solemnly gathered here for another announcement. The jobs would not be arriving after all, they said. Instead, they would shut down all of the company's local operations by the end of 2013. 
Barring some unexpected act of salvation, this is how Boeing leaves Wichita after eight decades as one of its biggest employers and most prestigious brands: in a trail of broken promises and bitter recriminations.
For most of the country, this is just one more plant closing, just 2,160 more lost jobs in a Midwestern city -- nothing particularly dramatic in these difficult times. But the exit has been another painful blow to the city of Wichita and the airplane manufacturing industry that has sustained it, the sudden reversal of fortune only adding to the feeling of betrayal.
After waves of layoffs and threatened departures by the plane makers, there is a growing fear that this city, like so many other manufacturing centers, is at risk of losing its identity as one of those American places where people make things and are paid well for it.
David Robertson, who has worked at Boeing for 35 of his 54 years, following his father into the business, said he suspected that when the jobs head elsewhere his employer will miss the commitment and expertise built through company clans like his.
''What did we talk about at supper?'' Mr. Robertson asked. ''We talked about planes. You go to a place where people don't have that history, where people haven't been doing it for generations, and to them it's just a job.''
This was a fading cow town when a few eyes-to-the-skies businessmen helped transform Wichita into the largest city in Kansas and a major aviation manufacturing hub. Cessna, Beech and Lear are a few whose names still grace planes made here. The city still makes almost half the general aviation airplanes in the world. And Wichita is where Air Force One goes for a tuneup.
Some believe the departure of Boeing will be damaging only symbolically because the company sold off its much larger commercial division here, now called Spirit Aerosystems. But others, worried about an eroding identity and a declining share of the market, ask whether this time is different.
''This is not a cyclical thing,'' said Bob Brewer, president of the local chapter of the aerospace engineering union. ''This isn't Boeing cycling down. This is Boeing cycling out.''
Boeing, which is based in Chicago, anchored itself to the community when it took over the local Stearman Aircraft Company in 1929. With a focus on building larger planes for commercial travel and military use, as opposed to the small-plane makers that dominate here, Boeing gained a reputation for generous compensation and opportunities for career growth.
Today, a typical airplane worker here earns about $71,000 a year, about 80 percent higher than the average income in the city, according to the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City.
A Boeing employee for four decades, Steve Rooney, who runs the local machinists' union, joined the company just like his father and grandfather. His daughter worked at Boeing as well, until she was laid off several years ago.
''How can you tell people, 'Learn the trade, get involved, there is a future here'?'' Mr. Rooney asked. ''Is there?'' He nodded his head and let the question linger.
This scene -- a major local airplane maker departing while citing costs -- almost played out a year ago. Hawker Beechcraft was on the verge of moving to Louisiana before the company agreed to take a smaller incentive package to remain for at least a decade, embracing what the company calls ''the stay and make it work strategy.''
W. W. Boisture Jr., the chairman and chief executive of the company, which cut its local work force by nearly half, said the decision was between ''a very attractive economic offer'' and ''a multigenerational work force that has been committed to this company for decades.'' He did not pretend that the decision was easy.
Though employment in airplane manufacturing here dropped to 29,000 from 42,000 in 2008 -- accounting for more than half the lost jobs during that period -- there are some positive signs. Airbus, the European rival to Boeing, expanded the office it opened here. Spirit has been increasing production. Last week Bombardier Aerospace announced it was expanding its Learjet site. But it is Boeing's departure that dominates the conversation.
For residents, the message seemed unequivocal before the $35 billion contract to build aerial refueling tankers was secured. ''Tanker Win Would Bring 7,500 Jobs, $388 Million to Kansas,'' one Boeing press release declared.
But when the company concluded that it was prohibitively expensive to stay in the enormous facility -- which includes 97 buildings -- executives deflected charges of deceit by saying that the issues had not been anticipated.
Representative Mike Pompeo, a Republican who is investigating whether the company planned to close the factory even as it assured the jobs were headed here -- as union leaders have charged -- dismissed the explanation as ''incomprehensible.''
Mr. Roberts, also a Republican and a part of the Congressional delegation that fought for the contract, called the episode a bitter lesson. ''They broke their promise not just to me but to the men and women who have worked for them for 80 years,'' he said.
A Boeing spokesman, Jarrod Bartlett, said executives would not discuss the departure because, ''We're still trying to work through everything.'' The company has emphasized that it spent $3.2 billion with 475 Kansas suppliers last year and that those relationships would be continuing.
As shift workers streamed out of aviation factories here last week, Debbie Humble, 46, who has survived her own layoffs over the years, said that even though her job at Spirit felt secure she had been unnerved by the recent developments.
''You never thought you'd see Boeing leave,'' Ms. Humble said. ''They were the biggest thing out here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeremy Walker, above, at Spirit Aerosystems, which was formerly Boeing's large commercial division in Wichita. Spirit has been increasing production.
 DAVID ROBERTSON, who has worked at Boeing for 35 of his 54 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Boeing has had operations in Wichita for eight decades (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: PAT ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (96%) KANSAS, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



803 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: Packets Full Of Promise

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
WHERE have all the flowers gone? Seriously, where did they go?
They're not in the garden, it would seem. The number of households growing flowers has dropped for three years straight, according to research from the National Gardening Association.
It would be nice to think that we've torn up all our flower beds to raise black oxheart tomatoes and red warty thing squash. (O.K., maybe not so nice.) Apparently, at the same time flower purchases fell, food-garden spending climbed 20 percent. During a recession, we have discovered a surprising interest in feeding ourselves.
And yet, even during hard times, the pompon bloom of a bachelor's button is still as cute as a lapdog's up-do. The brain celosia, with its magenta convolutions, looks as if it should be floating in a lab jar full of formaldehyde. And a sunflower still faces the sun. 
Which is another way of saying that, according to the data, there are 11.2 million households that have continued to buy flower seed. These folks know that seed catalogs are the place to find a palette of petal colors never seen on a paint chip. It's where you'll find flowers for every spot in the yard and every week of the summer. And at three bucks or so for 100 seeds, all this beauty is literally cheaper than dirt.
The only problem with the variety of flower seed is that there's so much, it's hard to know what to choose. So we asked three experienced gardeners -- from the Bronx, Los Angeles and Birmingham, Ala. -- to recommend a few favorites for each region from the multitude of all creation. Flowers to look at and flowers to smell and (why not?) flowers to eat.
One of our stalwarts even nominated a night bloom that can tempt the rarely seen sphinx moth. And what could be more exciting than lepidopterological epicureanism? We are confident that as soon as the public learns about this flower, seed sales will be headed back up.
SUSANNAH STRAZZERA
THE GARDEN Ms. Strazzera, 51, will start 250 different types of seeds this year as a gardener at Wave Hill, a pair of mansions and a public garden on the Hudson River in the Bronx. (Notable occupants have included Theodore Roosevelt, Mark Twain and Arturo Toscanini.) Wave Hill's 28-acre grounds encompass a conservatory, a flower garden, an herb garden, a wild garden, a water garden and ''something called a monocot garden,'' Ms. Strazzera said. If you have to ask. ...
NEW GROWTH ''I'm going to try a different viola this year called Freckles,'' Ms. Strazzera said. (Its formal name: Viola sororia Freckles.) You could say the delicate, half-inch flowers look like purple dandruff on a clean white collar, or like a floral Rorschach test. Or, fine, like freckles.
CAN'T GO WRONG A fugitive from the annual herb garden, borage (Borago officinalis, below) can go in the dirt as early as mid-February in New York. This flower tops the adorable-o-meter (not a real scientific instrument): the leaves and stems are furry, and the flowers look like tiny blue sea stars that have bowed at the waist. ''Dip them in egg white and then superfine sugar,'' Ms. Strazzera said, to make candied flowers.
RARE BEAUTY The common name of this less common plant is ''throatwort'' (Trachelium caeruleum). O.K., so it sounds like a social disease. But if you start the seeds in February, Ms. Strazzera said, this perennial herb from the Mediterranean will create beautiful lavender umbels all summer long.
PETAL PUSHER
Purple bell vine (Rhodochiton atrosanguineum). Start this Mexican perennial vine indoors in February, move the pot next to a trellis in April or May, and then stand back. It ''keeps going and going,'' Ms. Strazzera said, forming ''beautiful, two-toned tubular bells'' in mauve and purple.
Nicotiana Babybella Ms. Strazzera likes to seed these dangling, maroon flowers next to ornamental vegetables like beets with their blood-red leaves. Sort of like a mix-and-match sweater set. Also called flowering tobacco, nicotiana ''can be tall and really lanky,'' she said. This one is more compact -- an endomorph, maybe.
Pansy Padparadja Ms. Strazzera already has these cool-season blooms going in the greenhouse. By the Fourth of July, they'll be overheating like a malamute tethered to a street sign in Hell's Kitchen. Before then, though, these traffic-cone-orange flowers smell ''sweet like violets,'' she said. ''Just delicious!''
DEADHEADS ''I've had bad luck with the silver lupine,'' Ms. Strazzera said. This shrubby perennial (Lupinus albifrons) is a native to the gravelly slopes of coastal California and Oregon. ''They've germinated,'' she said of the seedlings. ''But they're just too wet in New York City. They rot when you put them in the ground.''
GROWING TIPS ''My key thing,'' Ms. Strazzera said, is transplanting ''at the exact soil level where it was in the pot. If the roots are exposed, it's going to do really poorly. Too deep and you bury the crown, which hurts it also.''
SEED BANK Wave Hill stocks up on seeds at Chiltern Seeds (chilternseeds.co.uk); Prairie Moon Nursery (prairiemoon.com); Seedhunt (seedhunt.com); Summer Hill Seeds (summerhillseeds.com); the Territorial Seed Company (territorialseed.com); and Thompson & Morgan (tmseeds.com).
GENEVIEVE ARNOLD
THE GARDEN Ms. Arnold, 41, grows out and stores the seeds of more than 1,000 different native California plants and wildflowers for the Theodore Payne Foundation, a nonprofit retail and educational nursery in Los Angeles. (The group also tends the fantastically useful California Native Plant Wiki, theodorepayne.org/mediawiki.)
NEW GROWTH The region's Chumash Indians used to eat the green shoots and ground-up seeds of fringed redmaids (Calandrinia ciliata), Ms. Arnold said. Alternately, you could plant them in a pot with sandy soil, lest the low-slung, 1-inch-diameter magenta flowers get lost in a crowded bed.
CAN'T GO WRONG The California poppy (Eschscholzia californica, below), Ms. Arnold said, ''can be sown any time of year,'' in its home range. And supplemental water will keep it flowering through a baking Los Angeles summer. Spread enough seeds, she added, and you could end up with the classic wildflower panorama, ''a California hillside, painted in gold.''
RARE BEAUTY What is most lovely about a wind poppy (Stylomecon heterophylla)? Is it the blaze-orange flower with the papery petals? Or the 2-foot-tall stems, which ''kind of sway in the wind''? Even after the ''flower is spent,'' Ms. Arnold said, the show isn't over. ''They form a pyxis,'' she explained, a jewel box that's a ''little like a castle turret.''
PETAL PUSHER
California Indian pink (Silene californica). Ms. Arnold has found one subspecies of this annual growing in the Verdugo Mountains outside Burbank -- practically her backyard. The cardinal-colored flowers look a bit like an asterisk in a gothic font.
Lindley's blazingstar (Mentzelia lindleyi). Blooming profusely in open fields with well-drained soil or along the road, this showy annual wins the gold star in Ms. Arnold's book. The 3-inch flower heads have an orangey beard of filaments at the center. ''It literally looks like a gold star!'' she said.
Farewell to spring (Clarkia amoena). A delicate fingerbowl, painted in Barbie pink, this wildflower could be a great character actor. One day it might appear in the chaparral of a John Ford western; the next year, it could do summer stock in a New England cottage garden. According to Ms. Arnold, the cut flower might also win raves in Samuel Beckett's ''Play'' -- that is, trapped in an urn.
DEADHEADS ''A big stumper for growers of native California plants is the woolly bluecurls (Trichostema lanatum),'' Ms. Arnold said. ''We put a label right on the packet saying 'very hard to germinate.' '' When the seed does sprout, it is typically in the wake of a wildfire. And yet the deep purple flowers, with their flamboyant stamens, have the whimsy of a Gaudi cathedral spire. Good luck!
GROWING TIPS A hose-blast can be a monsoon for a tiny wildflower seed before it sets roots; a rainstorm feels more like a tsunami. Ms. Arnold gently waters her newly sown seeds with a hose's shower attachment or a watering can. ''Avoid letting the water pool up or create divots,'' she said.
SEED BANK The Theodore Payne Foundation sells seeds and native plants at its headquarters in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, and seeds at its online store (store.theodorepayne.org). Ms. Arnold also shops for rare and unusual California seeds, plants and grasses at Annie's Annuals and Perennials (anniesannuals.com) and S &S Seeds (ssseeds.com).
CHARLIE THIGPEN
THE GARDEN For almost three decades, Mr. Thigpen, 50, designed and maintained the display gardens for Southern Living magazine. Currently, he gardens in the borders and containers outside his store, Charlie Thigpen's Garden Gallery (charliethigpensgardengallery.com), in a converted Dr Pepper plant in downtown Birmingham, Ala.
NEW GROWTH After sinking a few years into vegetable gardening, Mr. Thigpen has his eye on a nasturtium cultivar called Empress of India. He appreciates the nasturtium's crimson flowers in early spring or early fall. Better yet, he added, ''It tastes like a radish!''
CAN'T GO WRONG The classic orange sulfur cosmos (Cosmos sulphureus, below) develops lacy foliage on a 4-foot-tall stem. But amid heat and drought, these are no blushing roses. Deadhead the first round of blooms, and they'll keep coming. ''They actually use them down here for highway plantings,'' Mr. Thigpen said, acres and acres of them. ''That will tell you how tough they are.''
RARE BEAUTY Mr. Thigpen appreciates the ''pretty, pealike blooms'' and ''light fragrance'' of the Chinese red noodle bean. But he grows this edible plant for the oddball fruit that follows: a ''kind of burgundy-red'' worm-like pod that grows as long as a woman's arm.
PETAL PUSHER
Moonflower (Ipomoea alba). This 15-foot-long vine, with its CD-size white blossom, ''should be the bucket-list flower,'' Mr. Thigpen said. ''At night, it opens so rapidly you can almost watch it'' happen. The moonflower vine he grew last summer, over an arbor outside the store, attracted ''a moth you don't see often called a sphinx moth. It looks just like a hummingbird.''
Blood sage (Salvia coccinea). ''I love plants that reseed in the garden in cracks!'' Mr. Thigpen said. Like couture from a catalog, the flower clusters of this knee-high Southern native come in different colors: white, shrimp and red.
Spider flower (Cleome hassleriana). The head of this ''great, old-fashioned flower'' is like a botanical riddle. Here are the white, pink or purple petals, boinging at the end of XXL pedicels. Here are the stamens, drooping like crawdad antennas. Essay question: Does the spider flower look more like Wes Craven's Pinhead or a 4-foot-tall cellphone tower? Discuss.
DEADHEADS ''When my son was a baby,'' Mr. Thigpen recalled, ''we used to stroll him around the neighborhood. One time I grabbed a handful of seeds from the four-o'clocks (Mirabilis jalapa). They were the yellow selection -- so fragrant -- growing next to someone's mailbox. I shouldn't have done that. I've been cursed. I actually planted them in my yard, and they just went crazy.'' In fact, the flowers followed him years later to a new house, hitchhiking in a planter.
GROWING TIPS ''My whole thing is maintenance,'' Mr. Thigpen said: staking, deadheading, grooming. ''I used to always tell my employees, if there's brown on a plant, it will never turn green again.''
SEED BANK Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds (rareseeds.com); Burpee (burpee.com); the Ferry-Morse Seed Company (ferry-morse.com); Renee's Garden Seeds (reneesgarden.com); Thompson & Morgan (tmseeds.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
FRAGRANCE: Pansy Padparadja, left, known for its scent, is one of Susannah Strazzera's picks, as are purple bell vine, above, and nicotiana, right inset. (PHOTOGRAPH FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
COLOR: Lindley's blazingstar, above, and Farewell to spring, right, are recommended by Genevieve Arnold. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN GILLILAND)
 TEXTURE: Nasturtiums, favored by Charlie Thigpen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VAN CHAPLIN)(D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); GARDENING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); ALDEHYDES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDENING ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (68%); ALABAMA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



804 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Spends Millions Pushing Cuomo's Agenda

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Wednesday unveiled a new Web site promoting his proposed state budget, featuring a photograph of the smiling governor, his sleeves rolled up, greeting farmers in a flood-stricken upstate community.
For careful Cuomo watchers, the photo looked familiar: it was the same image used in a television advertisement broadcast in recent weeks by a business lobbying coalition praising the governor's handling of the economy.
The double use of the image served as a reminder of one of Mr. Cuomo's significant advantages as he begins his second year in office: He does not have to spend much money promoting key parts of his agenda because deep-pocketed business leaders are doing it for him. 
Their coalition, called the Committee to Save New York, spent nearly $12 million supporting Mr. Cuomo's agenda last year, mostly on television and radio advertising, according to newly released lobbying records. That outlay, which buttressed the governor's lofty approval ratings, amounted to the fifth most expensive single-year lobbying campaign ever waged in Albany by one organization, according to the New York Public Interest Research Group.
In the same year, Mr. Cuomo spent $2.2 million from his bulging campaign treasury, most of it to finance a fund-raising operation that brought in $11.7 million.
By contrast, former Gov. Eliot Spitzer spent more than $7.2 million during his first year in office, 2007, in part to defend his budget proposal from critics. He did not have a sizable business advertising campaign on his behalf.
''It's definitely a game-changer,'' Bill Mahoney, research coordinator at the New York Public Interest Research Group, said of the support for Mr. Cuomo. ''It amplifies his voice.''
Mr. Mahoney, a leading observer of campaign spending in New York, said that in the past, ''any time groups weighed in on budgetary issues, they were always opposing the governor.'' He added, ''It's rare to see a campaign like this that is out there advocating for the governor's proposals.''
The Committee to Save New York, which says it does not coordinate with Mr. Cuomo's political team, was formed about a year ago to advocate for lower taxes and reduced state spending. It is led by three prominent New York City business leaders: Rob Speyer, the president of the real estate firm Tishman Speyer; Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of Partnership for New York City, a business network; and Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
The organization is already promoting Mr. Cuomo's latest state budget proposal, just introduced Tuesday, on its Web site.
A spokesman for the group, Michael McKeon, said that the business leaders were ''proud of the role that we played in supporting the governor and the Legislature'' last year and that, this year, ''we expect to be fully engaged, as we were last year.''
''This is a group of people who are very much committed to a reform agenda,'' Mr. McKeon said. ''They take this very seriously and from a very substantive point of view.''
Mr. Cuomo, who will not face a re-election campaign until 2014, has nonetheless been raising money at a furious pace -- last year, his first in office, he averaged nearly $1 million a month. His campaign account now stands at nearly $14.4 million.
Over the last six months, Mr. Cuomo raised particularly large sums from the real estate and construction industries, as well as from gay rights advocates grateful for his role in persuading the Legislature to allow same-sex marriage. He also received money from some boldface names: Rob Reiner contributed $10,000, Harvey Weinstein and Calvin Klein each gave $5,000, and Ivanka Trump donated $500.
While Mr. Cuomo will not be on the ballot this year, every state legislative seat will be, and the campaign filings released this week show that the Republican majority in the State Senate maintains a large financial edge over Democrats in the battle for control of that chamber. Senate Republicans reported having $4.9 million on hand, compared with $212,000 for Senate Democrats, who ended the last election cycle saddled with debt and still have an outstanding bank loan totaling about $1.8 million.
Scott Reif, a spokesman for the Republicans, said the big financial gap between the two parties ''significantly tilts the playing field in our direction for 2012.'' But State Senator Michael N. Gianaris of Queens, who is leading the Senate Democrats' campaign efforts, said his party expected to raise enough money this year to wage competitive races in six to eight districts held by Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); WEB SITES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); FUNDRAISING (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



805 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Says He Himself Pays Top Tax Rate and Opposes Hedge Fund Break

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
A day after Mitt Romney conceded that he paid a lower tax rate than many Americans, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg - another politician who made his fortune in the financial industry - said on Wednesday that he personally paid ''the highest personal income tax rate.''
Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire who is usually reluctant to discuss his finances, said the bulk of his earnings stemmed from holdings in his media company, which he said was taxed as ordinary income at the highest city, state and federal rates, before he took deductions for charitable giving. 
The highest federal income tax rate is 35 percent, far higher than the 15 percent effective tax rate that Mr. Romney said he pays.
And in a remark sure to bother some of the mayor's high-flying friends, Mr. Bloomberg said he opposed the controversial tax provision that has allowed Mr. Romney, as well as other wealthy financiers, to pay a lower rate than many Americans on his income.
Mr. Romney currently receives a significant chunk of his income in the form of ''carried interest,'' a once-obscure term that refers to a portion of the profits he receives from past investments in his former firm, Bain Capital. Federal legislation allows many hedge fund and private equity executives essentially to declare this income as a capital gain, allowing for a lower tax rate.
But Mr. Bloomberg stopped short of criticizing Mr. Romney, who has been attacked by his Republican rivals for admitting that he pays only about 15 percent of his annual income in taxes despite earning millions of dollars a year.
''Romney paid his taxes, I assume,'' the mayor said Wednesday at a news conference in the Bronx. ''He didn't write the tax law. This is ridiculous. There's got to be other things to ask candidates who want to be president about what they would do.''
Mr. Bloomberg, who accepts only a $1 salary from the city, said that ''virtually none'' of his own income was in the form of carried interest.
''When you take out the money I give to charity, then I pay the highest personal income tax rate,'' he said. ''I don't even have carried interest or any of those things. I don't even have a lot of capital gains. It's virtually none. It is all the income from the company and it's taxable as ordinary income, and I pay the highest rate, state, city and federal.''
Mr. Bloomberg said that the elimination of the carried interest provision would be a painful but necessary step toward balancing the federal budget.
''If it were up to me, I would end the concept of carried interest,'' he said. ''In every industry there are things that were put there perhaps to encourage or discourage certain kinds of economic activity, but that may not be appropriate today.''
The mayor's statements echo the remarks of another billionaire, Warren E. Buffett, who is also an opponent of the carried interest exception. But they also pit Mr. Bloomberg against many Wall Street financiers who have fought to retain the lower tax rate.
Mr. Bloomberg, whose net worth is estimated at $19.5 billion by Forbes magazine, is relatively secretive about his own finances. Each year, he allows reporters to inspect a heavily redacted version of his tax forms for a few hours, and photocopies are not allowed. In the redacted forms, the mayor's earnings and losses are represented by a letter-based system of dollar ranges, rather than exact amounts.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney says he pays about 15 percent
 Michael Bloomberg, more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CHARITIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); CHARITABLE GIVING (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



806 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Online Fracas For a Critic Of the Right

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
For Corey Robin the author it's been a bruising few months. Shortly after his essay collection ''The Reactionary Mind: Conservatism From Edmund Burke to Sarah Palin'' appeared last fall, The New York Times Book Review published a review by Sheri Berman dismissing the book as ''a diatribe that preaches to the converted,'' ''so filled with exaggeration and invective that the reader's eyes roll.'' Then in late December, The New York Review of Books ran a withering assessment by Mark Lilla, who dismissed the book as ''history as W.P.A. mural, '' if not the left-wing scholarly equivalent of Glenn Beck's blackboard scribblings.
For Corey Robin the blogger, however, the past few months have been quite excellent. Since starting CoreyRobin.com in June, Mr. Robin, an associate professor of political science at Brooklyn College, has established himself as a lively and combative online presence. He has racked up links from prominent bloggers and this month won the 2011 ''best writer'' award from Cliopatra, the blog of the History News Network, which called him ''the quintessential public intellectual for the digital age.'' 
So when Mr. Lilla's review hit the newsstands, Mr. Robin's online admirers were ready to pounce, setting off a cycle of learned (and often lengthy) commentary and counterreviews that trickled up from smaller blogs like U.S. Intellectual History to big ones like Crooked Timber.
As one commenter on U.S. Intellectual History wrote, ''Bashing Lilla's review of Robin's book seems to be the newest Internet meme.''
If Mr. Robin seems to be enjoying the online tumult, filing regular updates on his blog, he professes to remain puzzled by the hostile reviews that touched it all off.
''I don't know what is driving the critics,'' Mr. Robin, 44, said in a recent interview at his apartment in Park Slope, Brooklyn. ''The argument itself just bothers them, and I don't know why.''
''The Reactionary Mind'' certainly cuts hard against the common view that the radical populist conservatism epitomized by Sarah Palin represents a sharp break with the cautious, reasonable, moderate, pragmatic conservatism inaugurated by the 18th-century British statesman Edmund Burke. For Mr. Robin even Burke, that great critic of the French Revolution, wasn't a Burkean moderate, but a reactionary who celebrated the sublimity of violence and denounced the inability of flabby traditional elites to defend the existing order.
This counterrevolutionary spirit, Mr. Robin argues, animates every conservative, from the Southern slaveholders to Ayn Rand to Antonin Scalia, to name just a few of the figures he pulls into his often slashing analysis. Commitment to a limited government, devotion to the free market, or a wariness of change, Mr. Robin writes, are not the essence of conservatism but mere ''byproducts'' of one essential idea -- ''that some are fit, and thus ought, to rule others.''
These are fighting words, and to some of Mr. Robin's readers they serve a useful purpose.
''By the standards of intellectual history it may be found wanting,'' the political scientist Alan Wolfe, who gave ''The Reactionary Mind'' an appreciative if mixed review on The New Republic's Web site, said in an interview. ''But the argument is valuable at this moment because Robin's analysis helps explain why there is so much fury and resentment in our politics.''
But to Mr. Lilla, a professor of humanities at Columbia, what he sees as the incoherent Manicheanism of Mr. Robin's vision is more a symptom of our polarized politics than an explanation of it.
''He is interested in an anthropological, or maybe entomological, way of looking at how these little bugs are behaving or changing,'' Mr. Lilla said. ''But he can't take conservative ideas seriously as ideas. Everything is just positioning.''
Mr. Robin counters that his own arguments are the ones that aren't being taken seriously -- or even really being read. The true subject of ''The Reactionary Mind,'' he said, isn't the eternal sameness of conservatism but the way it transforms itself in response to threats to existing hierarchies, often by borrowing from the very movements it seeks to oppose.
''We see the left initiating a politics, whether it's the French Revolution or abolition,'' he said. ''What's fascinating to me is how the right reacts to that, how it learns from the left a whole capacity for political agency.''
Mr. Robin, who was the lead organizer for the graduate student union campaign at Yale while getting his doctorate there in the 1990s, dates his fascination with the right to 2000, when he got a magazine assignment to write about former free-marketeers who had become sharp critics of capitalism.
That assignment yielded some juicy sound bites, as when William F. Buckley (who was not one of the apostates) told Mr. Robin that conservative fixation on the market was as boring and repetitious as sex. But it also opened his eyes to what he calls ''the agonies and ecstasies of the conservative mind,'' a deep political romanticism that colleagues on the left often fail to appreciate.
Take, for example, the war in Iraq, which Mr. Robin argues was less about oil than the neoconservative longing for a project of national greatness more noble than simply making money.
''When I said that the neocon project was not about defending oil, that it was much more a Kulturkampf that goes to the heart of conservatism's deep ambivalence about the free market, people on the left didn't buy it,'' he said. ''To them it's all just the pursuit of economic interest.''
As for his argument with Mr. Lilla, the two do find at least one point of agreement: There are few if any true Burkean political actors in American history, and certainly none anywhere near the Republican presidential primaries.
Mr. Lilla does see real Burkeans in Europe. But to Mr. Robin there is no actually existing Burkeanism anywhere, making those who cite the ideal of a reasonable, pragmatic, nonreactionary conservatism guilty of the kind of utopianism the left is more commonly faulted for.
''Their whole claim to credibility is, as William F. Buckley put it, 'We are the politics of reality,' '' Mr. Robin said. ''But if you can only find two examples across two centuries, it's not a political theory anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Corey Robin outside his apartment in Park Slope. Hostile reviews of his new book, ''The Reactionary Mind,'' have prompted much back and forth on the Web. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SASHA MASLOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONTUSIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (77%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); GLENN BECK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



807 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Obama Ad Stands Out For Its Timing and Target

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
10:09 p.m. Updated COLUMBIA, S.C. - Facing attacks on his character from some particularly aggressive and well-financed opponents,President Obama will begin running the first broadcast television ad of his presidential re-election campaign on Thursday. 
To advertise so early in an election year is unusual. But it reflects the new reality of presidential politics, with large, anonymous amounts of money flowing into groups that can pay for potentially devastating advertising.
The president's campaign commercial is striking not only for its timing but for its sharply defensive tone toward a very specific target. Without mentioning them by name, it takes on Charles and David Koch, the wealthy conservative businessmen who have opposed Mr. Obama through the political advocacy group Americans for Prosperity.
Americans for Prosperity announced this week that it would run a $6 million national advertising campaign that portrays the president as running a pay-to-play government. It attacks him in a commercial that highlights the Solyndra scandal, which involved a solar power company with ties to the Obama administration that declared bankruptcy after receiving more than $500 million in federal money.
The Obama campaign responded hastily. It placed orders for television time on Wednesday, telling broadcast stations that it wanted the advertising on the air immediately. Typically, stations require more than a day's notice.
An official from the campaign said that the purchase of air time was significant, but as of Wednesday afternoon it had not placed orders widely, according to several television stations in battleground states.
The ad will run in four states that could prove pivotal in the election: Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia.
It opens with a shot at the Koch brothers. ''Secretive oil billionaires attacking President Obama with ads fact checkers say are not tethered to the facts,'' an announcer says over the low chords of a piano as an image from the Americans for Prosperity advertisement plays in the background. ''Independent watchdogs call this president's record on ethics unprecedented,'' it continues. ''President Obama kept his promise to toughen ethics rules and strengthen America's energy economy.''
Groups like Americans for Prosperity and American Crossroads have been airing advertising for months attacking the president, to the tune of tens of millions of dollars. This is the first time he has pushed back in a commercial.
The ad coincides with what promises to be a major media blitz next week for the president. He is set to deliver his State of the Union speech on Tuesday. Then he will hit the road, traveling to Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Michigan and Nevada - all swing states his campaign is focusing on in the election.
That the ad came directly from the Obama campaign - and not from a ''super PAC'' supporting him - could indicate how differently the Republican and Democratic sides of the race will unfold. Attack ads in the Republican primary so far have been paid for overwhelmingly by super PACs. But the president - who recently announced that he had raised $68 million in the last three months of 2011 - is likely to have to do much of the hard hitting himself. His super PAC has so far failed to raise the amounts of money of its Republican counterparts.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama's ad takes on Charles and David Koch, the wealthy conservative businessmen who have opposed him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ETHICS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SCANDALS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



808 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Budget Wars Are Revived With a Vote In the House

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House voted Wednesday to block President Obama's request for $1.2 trillion in additional borrowing authority, knowing that its action was mainly a symbolic protest with no effect on the seemingly inexorable increase in the federal debt.
The 239-to-176 vote revived the budget wars of 2011 and suggested that the tone in Congress would be similar this year. 
Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said, ''Until we have a plan to deal with our fiscal crisis, we should not raise the debt ceiling any further.''
Lawmakers of both parties described the proceedings on Wednesday as a charade, a sham, a political stunt, a fig leaf to cover up Congess's inability to make tough decisions.
''Here we are, on the first full day the House is in session this year, debating a measure that will take us immediately back to the brink of default,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. ''House Republicans have returned to Washington with the same confrontational tone they left with when they nearly allowed the payroll tax and unemployment insurance to expire.''
The bipartisan budget agreement reached last summer cleared the way for increases in the debt limit, which Congress could try to block by enacting a law. The House voted Wednesday, largely along party lines, to disapprove the president's request for more borrowing authority.
If, as expected, the Senate refuses to go along with the House, the debt ceiling will rise to $16.4 trillion. That would allow the government to meet its financial needs beyond the November elections, administration officials said.
House Republicans said Wednesday that they knew their effort would be stymied in the Senate, controlled by Democrats. But they insisted that it was important to go down fighting against what they described as reckless spending and endless borrowing.
''Less than six months removed from last summer's so-called debt crisis, we are on the verge of committing another act of generational embezzlement,'' said Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, a freshman Republican. ''We are on the verge of assigning another trillion dollars of debt to our progeny because we cannot muster the courage to make hard decisions.''
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, on a break from his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, said, ''Congress is engaging in an act of futility.''
''Some are wedded to trillions of dollars of welfare spending, while others treat the trillions of dollars of corporate welfare funneled to the military-industrial complex as absolutely sacrosanct,'' Mr. Paul said. So, he said, the debt keeps rising.
Since Mr. Obama took office, the debt has shot up 43 percent, to the current level of $15.2 trillion, as the government has borrowed record sums to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the continuation of tax cuts adopted under President George W. Bush and economic stimulus measures enacted in 2009.
In the debate on Wednesday, Democrats generally did not try to explain or justify the increase in federal debt as a response to an economic crisis. They did say that the debt limit increase would permit the government to honor debts already incurred.
Representative Jared Polis, Democrat of Colorado, said House Republicans shared responsibility for the debt because 147 of them voted last month to spend $915 billion under an omnibus appropriations bill, ''all of which was deficit spending.''
''That was a Christmas shopping spree,'' Mr. Polis said. ''Now the credit card bill has come in January. This Congress and the majority of this Congress on the Republican side are addicted to spending.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EMBEZZLEMENT (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); RON PAUL (58%); TREY GOWDY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



809 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Debt? Bain Might Leverage It

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest.; E-mail: jesse@propublica.org; Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
Imagine how Mitt Romney would campaign if he actually ran as a private equity executive, dangerous though that may be in this era of the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street.
Aggressively attacked by a super PAC supporting Newt Gingrich, Mr. Romney stands accused of being a rapacious capitalist intent on destroying jobs for personal gain. Mr. Romney has responded: Au contraire! He argues that his work at Bain Capital, one of the earliest and most successful private equity firms, created jobs by making companies more efficient and successful.
Many people on Wall Street are befuddled. After all, a private equity firm creating jobs is like Adam Sandler winning an Academy Award - it would be nice if it happened, but it sure wasn't the goal. 
The goal, of course, is high returns.
If Mr. Romney were really running as a private equity executive, how would he view what his campaign regards as one of the nation's most pressing issues, the national debt?
Right at the top of his campaign's home page, Mr. Romney proclaims, ''We have a moral responsibility not to spend more than we take in.'' The United States' debt is such a problem, it's like an addiction: ''The first step toward recovery is admitting we have a problem and refusing to allow any more irresponsible borrowing,'' his site says.
It's almost as if Mr. Romney never worked in - what's that other phrase for private equity? - oh yes, a leveraged buyout firm. Leverage as in debt, debt and more debt. Debt amplifies the returns of L.B.O. firms. Indeed, they often saddle companies with extra debt precisely so that their investors can cash out faster, a technique Bain deployed under Mr. Romney's watch.
L.B.O. firms certainly never think of debt as immoral. When the borrowing is good, private equity is going to grab the money. When Mr. Romney rails against debt, he is running away from his entire career in business.
So what about the federal government? The 10-year Treasury bond rate is 1.87 percent. Since inflation is higher than that, real rates are actually below zero, meaning that a lender to the United States government will get back less money in 10 years than it started with.
That's right: When the government borrows, its lenders actually lose money. Yet foreigners and Americans, institutions and individuals alike are extraordinarily willing to shovel money at the United States government right now.
Are there private equity executives anywhere in the world who would counsel their companies not to borrow at such extremely low rates? I haven't had the privilege of meeting one. Their mantra is, borrow now, for tomorrow the Mayans might turn out to be right. Few indeed are the companies that could borrow that cheaply and not make some kind of return on essentially free money.
''If debt is available to you historically cheaply, it almost always makes sense to take it,'' said Shivan Govindan, a private equity executive for the Resource Financial Institutions Group. ''Your capital strategy isn't something ideological. You are going to optimize it for the best mix.''
So, by the logic of private equity, the United States government should borrow much more right now.
But what about the unsustainability of our debt? If a company has out-of-control costs and is spiraling toward default, it should not borrow more. True, but no company that is truly headed toward imminent default can borrow as cheaply as the American government.
If the United States government is headed toward bankruptcy, lenders are surely not acting that way. Maybe those people are making a good decision; maybe they are deluded. It doesn't matter to the borrower.
Of course, an issue for the United States, as for a company, is whether it could put the money to good use.
''Surely, government investments would have a real return in a 10-year period higher than zero, even with waste and corruption,'' said Paul L. Kasriel, an economist for Northern Trust. ''This means that these investments will boost future real G.D.P. growth, which will boost future tax revenues to service the increased debt.''
There will be bridges and roads that we must fix over the next decade. We could put more young people in college, improve elementary school education, train veterans so they can find good jobs or finance exploration of alternative fuels. People will quibble - or maybe, in our polarized culture, fight tooth and nail - over the choices, but most could think of something that would be a good investment.
On a deeper level, the debate over private equity raises questions about using the metaphor of America as a business. That kind of thinking can reduce society to the sum of its revenues and profits, ignoring that much of what we do to provide for the common defense and promote the general welfare cannot or should not be measured, especially in economic terms. We take care of our elderly because it is the right thing to do, not because we expect a return on investment. Shouldn't society promote and protect freedom and human rights? Even when there are times when doing so may be expensive or uneconomical?
There are moral issues that confront our country. Debt isn't one of them.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney campaigning in Hudson, N.H., on Jan. 9. He has criticized high levels of federal debt, but private equity firms able to borrow at current low rates would almost certainly be taking advantage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); BONDS (77%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); ADAM SANDLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



810 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Decision on Whether to Attack Iran Is 'Far Off,' Israeli Defense Minister Says

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and RICK GLADSTONE; Isabel Kershner reported from Jerusalem, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Reporting was contributed by Ellen Barry from Moscow, Elisabeth Bumiller and Mark Landler from Washington, and Alan Cowell from London.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel moved to calm the increasingly tense discourse over Iran's nuclear program on Wednesday, with the Israeli defense minister asserting that any decision on a possible pre-emptive military strike on Iranian targets was ''very far off.''
The assertion by Defense Minister Ehud Barak was at least the third indication from the Israeli government in the past few days that it was not considering armed confrontation over the nuclear issue with Iran anytime soon, and it came amid signs that Iran and Western powers led by the United States might resume talks that have been stalled for a year. 
Last weekend, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said in a published interview that he was beginning to see evidence that onerous Western economic sanctions were pressuring Iran, suggesting that they might succeed. This week, Israel and the United States announced they were postponing joint military exercises in the Middle East. A slightly softened tone toward Iran was also sounded in Washington, where Obama administration officials confirmed that they had recently warned Iran's leadership through diplomatic back channels against blocking the Strait of Hormuz, a vital waterway, but that they also had indicated a willingness to resume diplomatic talks.
At the same time, a senior administration official denied Iranian news reports that President Obama had sent a letter to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, offering direct talks on Iran's nuclear program.
Publicly, administration officials sidestepped the question.
''We have a number of ways to communicate our views to the Iranian government, and we have used those mechanisms regularly on a range of issues over the years,'' said Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House's National Security Council. ''I'm not going to get into the details of those communications or mechanisms.''
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said the United States had not increased its forces in the Persian Gulf because there was enough American military strength there already. ''We obviously always continue to make preparations to be prepared for any contingency, but we are not making any special steps at this point in order to deal with the situation,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''Why? Because, frankly, we are fully prepared to deal with that situation now.''
Israel, which regards Iran as its most dangerous enemy, has repeatedly dropped hints recently that it reserved the right to attack Iranian military targets if it concluded that Iran had the capacity to construct a nuclear weapon. But Mr. Barak told Israel's Army Radio on Wednesday that ''we don't have a decision to go forward with these things.''
''We don't have a decision or a date for taking such a decision,'' he said. Iran has repeatedly denied that its nuclear fuel enrichment activities are for military use, saying they are meant only for civilian energy and medical purposes. It has called the Israeli threats of attack part of a broader Western-led policy of intimidation, and has accused Israel in particular of orchestrating a clandestine subterfuge campaign, including the assassination of its nuclear scientists. The deputy director of Iran's main uranium processing operation was assassinated in Tehran last Wednesday, the fifth Iranian scientist with connections to the nuclear program to be killed since 2007.
Mr. Barak's remarks came ahead of an imminent visit to Israel by the American chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey. Israeli news media commentators have suggested that General Dempsey was coming in part to warn Israel against going it alone in striking Iran's nuclear facilities. Mr. Barak denied that suggestion. He also reiterated the Israeli assessment that Iran had not started building nuclear weapons.
''The Iranians have not ended the oversight exercised by the International Atomic Energy Agency,'' he said, adding, ''They have not done that because they know that that would constitute proof of the military nature of their nuclear program and that would provoke stronger international sanctions or other types of action against their country.''
Iran has said that American and European sanctions aimed at pressuring it to stop enriching uranium are doomed to fail. But with the European Union moving closer to declaring an embargo on Iranian oil exports, and a new American law that penalizes entities that deal with Iran's Central Bank, the Iranians have shown a new willingness to negotiate.
Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi of Iran, in a visit to Turkey, said Wednesday that his country was ready to resume negotiations with the outside powers -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States. He said negotiations were under way about the site and date, Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency reported, and that the talks ''will most probably be held in Istanbul.''
The previous negotiations -- also in Istanbul -- broke off a year ago when Iran presented its own set of conditions, including a lifting of sanctions, that the West considered unacceptable.
Some Western diplomats have said Iran's offer to negotiate on the nuclear issue is part of a stalling process to enable it to enrich more uranium while talks are under way. They have also said Iran may be encouraged by the position of Russia, which has always opposed the sanctions on Iran and is even more opposed to military action. Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, reiterated Russia's position on Wednesday at a news conference in Moscow, saying a military strike would be a ''disaster.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (58%); EHUD BARAK (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (89%) INDIAN OCEAN (55%) ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



811 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: If Reply Was Spontaneous, The Question Was Not

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. - The frosty exchange over race and social welfare between Juan Williams and Newt Gingrich during Monday night's Fox News debate has become a breakout moment of the South Carolina primary. For many conservatives, it demonstrates how liberals defend a broken entitlement system. And for many liberals, it shows how minorities are often unfairly caricatured as addicted to government aid.
As a team from Fox News prepared for this point in the debate, they knew they had a provocative issue on their hands. And they worked to massage Mr. Williams's question, refining it from something that started out in much blunter fashion. 
Mr. Williams, seated at a long conference table with a dozen executives, editors and journalists from Fox News and The Wall Street Journal, initially argued for taking a hard line with Mr. Gingrich. He wanted to use the words ''demeaning'' and ''racially charged'' to describe comments by Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, that black Americans ''should demand paychecks and not be satisfied with food stamps,'' and that poor children would benefit from working as janitors at their schools.
After Mr. Williams read the draft of his question, Bill Sammon, the managing editor of Fox News's Washington bureau, said he had concerns. ''That sounds a little heavy,'' he said, suggesting that Mr. Williams use a softer approach. ''I think if you go too strong on him, you're going to give him an escape hatch.'' Mr. Sammon's suggestion: use the word ''insulting'' to describe the speaker's words.
But Mr. Williams insisted that there was, in fact, something very demeaning about suggesting that blacks felt entitled to receive government assistance. ''I think demeaning is a better word,'' he said. ''It's the idea that black Americans are demanding food stamps.''
Michael Clemente, Fox News' senior vice president for news, offered a compromise. ''Juan, what if you said, 'Mr. Speaker, can't you see how that would be, at a minimum, insulting?'''
And that was how Mr. Williams delivered the question on Monday night. ''Speaker Gingrich, you recently said black Americans should demand jobs, not food stamps. You also said poor kids lack a strong work ethic and proposed having them work as janitors in their schools. Can't you see that this is viewed, at a minimum, as insulting to all Americans, but particularly to black Americans?''
The question produced an emphatic response that was classic Gingrich. ''No. I don't see that,'' he said. He then went on to say that President Obama had ''put'' more Americans on food stamps than any president in American history, a statement that is numerically true but ignores the depth of the recession Mr. Obama inherited and the fact that the president does not place anyone on social assistance. People apply for it.
''Now, I know among the politically correct, you're not supposed to use facts that are uncomfortable,'' Mr. Gingrich added. He and his campaign were so pleased with his response that they cut up sound bites from the exchange and turned them into an ad that they called ''The Moment.'' The incident has been discussed repeatedly on talk radio and cable television ever since.
Mr. Williams, said in an interview on Wednesday morning that he was pleased with how the question turned out. ''I think that it was best to try to make it as fact-based and neutral as possible without having me insert myself or my emotional response into the dialogue.'' He said that he and Fox executives had discussed the possibility that he would be booed during the question. He was.
''I don't mind getting booed,'' he said. ''I'm a big boy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich, whose debate performance Monday drew fresh support, campaigning with his wife, Callista, in South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ETHICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HISTORY (69%); WRITERS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (61%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



812 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 615 words

PERSON: Michael Mussa 

HEADLINE: Michael Mussa, 67, Adviser To Reagan on Economy

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Michael L. Mussa, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund who was known for his blunt and often witty economic assessments, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 67.
The cause was heart failure, according to the Peterson Institute for International Economics, where Mr. Mussa had been a senior fellow since 2001.
Mr. Mussa's career included stints as a professor, a prognosticator and, as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan, a public servant. He was chief economist at the I.M.F. from 1991 to 2001. 
Widely published in the field, he was well known among economists for demonstrating that exchange rates fluctuate differently depending on whether a currency is free floating or tied to the dollar, gold, or some other stored value. He was more optimistic than many of his contemporaries that the United States would rebound strongly from the recent financial downturn.
C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute, said Mr. Mussa, a close student of history, believed that there was ''only one constant in the U.S. business cycle, namely the strong tendency for a V-shaped recovery.''
''He was proven right for the first year,'' he added. ''Now it has flattened out.''
Morris Goldstein, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute who also worked with Mr. Mussa at the I.M.F., said Mr. Mussa would refuse to alter his views ''no matter what the pressure was.''
''That made him very useful as a policy analyst because he would always tell it to you straight,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''That also made him irritating to a lot of people.''
Raghuram Rajan, a finance professor at the University of Chicago, recalled giving a speech at a Central Bankers Conference in 2005 about the growing risks to the financial system. ''While some respected commentators were hostile, Mike had no qualms supporting me because he thought I had a point,'' Professor Rajan said. ''That was Mike -- he spoke his mind, damn the opposition or the consequences.''
Mr. Mussa was known to inject wit into his economic analyses. In a paper on the merits of free trade, for instance, he wrote, ''In Washington, the truth is just another special interest, and one that is not particularly well financed.'' On the merits of economic policy, he said: ''My favorite economic policy tool is prayer. It is not demonstrably less effective than the others, and it carries none of the bad side effects.''
Michael Louis Mussa was born in Los Angeles on April 15, 1944. His father, Edward, was a native of France who became a set designer and architect, according to his brother, Roger. His mother, Emaline, was a county employee who worked in the courts system.
Mr. Mussa earned his undergraduate degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago.
He taught at the University of Rochester in the 1970s and at the graduate school at the University of Chicago from 1976 to 1991. He was a member of Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers from August 1986 to September 1988.
Mr. Mussa, who lived in Washington, was a gourmet cook and a devoted oenophile, with a wine collection totaling 4,000 bottles. On special occasions at work he would uncork choice vintages, further endearing him to colleagues.
He is survived by his brother.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An obituary headline on Thursday about Michael L. Mussa, who served as an economics adviser to President Ronald Reagan and chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, misstated his age at death in some editions. As the obituary correctly noted, he was 67 -- not 76.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Mussa was a chief economist at the I.M.F. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LESLIE E. KOSSOFF/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CURRENCIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HISTORY (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

RONALD REAGAN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



813 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Higher Deficits Seen In Romney's Tax Plan, And His Rivals', Too

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
When Mitt Romney suggested this week that he pays a lower tax rate than most wealthy Americans do, he refocused attention on his tax proposals -- which, like those of his major Republican rivals, would largely cut taxes for the rich while driving down tax collections and widening the nation's deficit.
Mr. Romney's tax plan -- which calls for permanently extending the Bush administration's tax cuts, reducing the corporate income tax rate and eliminating the estate tax -- would cut the taxes of people earning more than a million dollars a year by an average of $295,874, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research group. 
Since Mr. Romney would also allow some of President Obama's tax cuts to expire, his plan would effectively raise taxes on some people earning less than $40,000 a year. The Romney tax plan would add to the deficit by reducing federal revenues by $600 billion in 2015, a 16 percent cut, the center found.
Some of Mr. Romney's rivals for the Republican presidential nomination are proposing tax cuts that would widen the deficit even more -- which was the point that Mr. Romney was trying to make on Tuesday in South Carolina when he renewed attention to his personal wealth by noting that his effective tax rate is ''probably closer to the 15 percent rate than anything.''
He explained that most of his income is taxed at the 15 percent rate used for capital gains, interest and dividends, not the rate of up to 35 percent levied on wages and salaries.
Mr. Romney had been trying to draw a contrast with Newt Gingrich's plan to eliminate the tax on capital gains, dividends and interest. Mr. Romney would eliminate these investment taxes only for married couples with incomes under $200,000, a provision that he has said would encourage the middle class to save more.
He criticized Mr. Gingrich's proposal, saying that it ''would not only be a very expensive decision in terms of having to fill an even larger budget hole, but would provide for people with very high income the possibility of no tax at all.''
Mr. Romney is one of the people with high incomes who would benefit from Mr. Gingrich's plan. Like others who make large sums of money at hedge funds or private equity firms, Mr. Romney earned money from his old firm, Bain Capital, in the form of ''carried interest,'' a share of the profits earned by investors in Bain funds. Under current federal rules, such income is treated as long-term capital gains and taxed at the 15 percent rate -- the tax Mr. Gingrich would eliminate.
Officials at the Tax Policy Center said they believed that Mr. Romney's plan would continue to tax ''carried interest'' at the current 15 percent rate; the Romney campaign did not respond to a request for clarification.
It is not unusual for Republican presidential candidates to call for tax cuts that would expand the deficit: They argue the cuts will spur the economy. But they are now calling for tax cuts in a year in which Washington and many Republicans have been consumed by talk about reducing the deficit. It was only last summer that House Republicans balked at raising the nation's debt ceiling, citing alarm about high deficits -- a move that brought the nation uncomfortably close to a default and led Standard & Poor's to lower the nation's credit rating.
By reducing the amount the federal government collects in taxes each year -- at a time when federal tax collections are already a smaller share of the economy than they have been in more than half a century -- the Republican tax plans will make it harder to balance the budget, said Robert L. Bixby, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, a nonprofit group that advocates fiscal responsibility.
''If the first thing you do is lower revenues by that much by extending all of those tax cuts, then you have a much bigger hole to dig out of to get back to a balanced budget,'' he said in an interview. ''The hole they're digging, to mix metaphors, is a self-inflicted wound.''
The tax cuts proposed by the Republicans would more than wipe out the budget-balancing effects of the cuts that were agreed to as part of the compromise that was ultimately reached last summer to raise the debt ceiling. One part of that compromise called for a series of automatic cuts to begin next year with the goal of reducing the deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade -- cuts that some members of Congress are trying to avert on the grounds that they are too onerous. The Tax Policy Center has calculated that by extending the Bush tax cuts, Mr. Romney's tax plan would add $1.2 trillion to the deficit in just two years. The tax plans offered by Mr. Gingrich and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania would add more than that to the deficit in just one year, the center found.
''The amounts of revenue loss we're talking about in one year is the kind of thing we're used to seeing over a decade,'' said Roberton Williams, an analyst at the Tax Policy Center.
Experts from across the spectrum acknowledge that the Republican tax proposals would benefit the wealthiest the most. Polls have repeatedly shown that a majority of Americans favor raising taxes on households earning more than $1 million a year to reduce the deficit.
Political campaigns are always quick to trumpet tax cuts, but are slow to describe how to pay for them. And campaign proposals, while an important indication of a candidate's goals, do not always fit with the prose of governing, when any changes must win the approval of Congress. A case in point: As a candidate in 2008, Barack Obama spoke frequently of ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. As president, Mr. Obama reluctantly extended the cuts as part of a deal with Congress.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Details of the Candidates' Tax Plans (Source: Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ESTATE TAX (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



814 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: This Year, Voters Focus More on a Man Than on His Religion

BYLINE: By SERGE F. KOVALESKI; Bryan Betts contributed reporting from Greenville, and Lisa Schwartz from New York.

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. -- Four years ago, Mitt Romney's Mormon faith was a point of considerable concern, if not contention, for many Republican voters in South Carolina, a state where many voters are evangelical Christians and one that is known for its bare-knuckled politics.
With two days until this year's South Carolina's primary, the issue of Mr. Romney's faith has not vanished, though it is not nearly as prevalent as it was in 2008. South Carolina Republicans this time seem more pragmatic about choosing the candidate they believe will be best suited to defeat President Obama, fix the economy and promote Republican values, according to interviews with dozens of voters, analysts, elected officials and religious leaders.
For some, Mr. Romney's Mormonism has become less of a worry than Mr. Obama's liberalism over the last four years.
In this city in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, in an area that is a major manufacturing engine for the state and a strong link in the Bible Belt, Adam Crittenden Bach, 32, a lawyer and evangelical Christian, said that he supported John McCain in the last election but intended to vote for Mr. Romney on Saturday. Back in 2008, Mr. Bach doubted that the conservative base would turn out for a Mormon, and he considered Mr. McCain to be the strongest candidate on national security. 
''But today, I think the base is much more comfortable with the Mormon issue, and that has helped to shape my decision to get behind Romney,'' Mr. Bach said. ''What excites me about him is his experience in the corporate world and his recognition that the federal government needs to be cut down to size and reshuffled.''
Louise Quinn, 81, a semi-retired interior decorator from Greenville and a conservative Christian, said she decided to support Mr. Romney because of his aggressive foreign policy stance. His Mormonism is irrelevant, she said. ''If he were an atheist it would not bother me,'' said Ms. Quinn, who said she voted for Mr. McCain in 2008.
In that primary, Mr. Romney finished fourth, logging just over 15 percent of the vote. Mr. McCain won with more than double that in a contest that was noted for its mudslinging. The month before the voting, several thousand South Carolinians received fake Christmas cards purporting to be from Mr. Romney that endorsed polygamy and that falsely claimed to have been sent by a Mormon temple in Boston.
Today, Mr. Romney leads the Republican field in polls, but his campaign is taking no chances in a state where an estimated 60 percent of Republican voters identify themselves as evangelical Christians.
The Rev. Brad Atkins, president of the South Carolina Baptist Convention, which is made up of about 2,100 churches, was hardly enthusiastic in discussing Mr. Romney as a candidate in the primary, but he noted that he would vote for him in the general election should he become the nominee against Mr. Obama.
''You can't separate the spiritual aspect of a man from the political aspect,'' Mr. Atkins said. ''The core of who we are is found in our spiritual beliefs.''
Andy Sherman, 34, the owner of a construction company from Laurens, backed Mike Huckabee, a Baptist preacher and former Arkansas governor, four years ago. He said he planned to vote for Newt Gingrich on Saturday and expressed misgivings about Mr. Romney's faith and the Mormon church's view of God.
''At the end of the day, I'd rather have a president who worships the same God as I do,'' he said.
Mary Beth Morgan, 51, a legal assistant and evangelical from Simpsonville, expressed a similar view and said she was undecided about her vote. ''If I throw my support behind someone, I want it to be a person who is most in line with my values and beliefs in Christ, and because Mr. Romney is a Mormon, that is one of the reasons he would not be my first choice,'' Ms. Morgan said.
Mormons do not have a big presence in South Carolina. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the formal name of the church, says that just under 1 percent of the state's population, or nearly 37,000 people, are Mormon.
Mark DeMoss, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, said that in contrast to the last election, the campaign has not been courting evangelical leaders in an organized fashion.
''There is not a faith or values committee or anything like that, because last time there was a steep hill we faced with religious conservatives since he was largely unknown and needed entree,'' Mr. DeMoss said.
Indeed, Mr. Romney had been espousing some Mormon virtues during the campaign. ''I do think the country would benefit from a good dose of Mormon values like the commitment to marriage and families and a good work ethic and integrity,'' Mr. DeMoss said.
And in Greer, Dee Benedict, 66, a Republican and an evangelical Christian, has spent the last several years working to muster support for Mr. Romney among Christian conservatives in the state.
Last week, the campaign released a radio advertisement that said, ''Today Christian Conservatives are supporting Mitt Romney because he shares their values: the sanctity of life, the sacredness of marriage and the importance of the family.'' It has also mailed out a brochure titled ''Meet Mitt ... Faith. Family. Country'' that addresses his religious life, but without mentioning the Mormon church. Under the heading ''Allowing Faith to Be His Guide,'' the mailer says, ''A man of deep and abiding faith, Mitt has been in the same church his entire life.''
Mark White, the senior pastor of the Christian Assembly of God, a Pentecostal church in Greenville, said Mr. Romney's ''belief system is very much in line with evangelicals.''
''I think Mitt is as strong as any evangelical on any of the issues, such as being pro-life and defining marriage as being between a man and a woman,'' said Mr. White, who met Mr. Romney and his wife four years ago and has supported him since.
Ralph Reed, the chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, said that Mr. Romney's Mormonism has been less of a hindrance for him in South Carolina because the issue was explored and debated in 2008.
''The novelty of the Mormon issue has largely worn off since it was fully litigated last time, and people are just not as interested in that anymore as a front-burner issue,'' Mr. Reed said. ''With high unemployment in South Carolina, conservative voters are much more focused on jobs and the economy, and Romney can speak credibly to those issues.''
Others pointed out that voters elected Nikki R. Haley, an Indian-American and Sikh-turned-Methodist as governor in 2010. Ms. Haley, a Republican, has endorsed Mr. Romney.
Dick Harpootlian, chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, said the embrace of Mr. Romney and the fact that a black Republican, Tim Scott of Charleston, was elected to Congress from South Carolina in 2010 indicates that a new pragmatism may be taking hold.
''It suggests that the minds of South Carolinians are not as shackled by religion and race as they used to be and that we can more fully debate policy,'' he said.
Ben Few, 66, an evangelical who owns a pharmacy in Spartanburg, said he supported Mr. Obama in the last election but was now backing Mr. Romney.
''I feel that Mr. Romney would support middle-class entrepreneurs like me against the big-box companies,'' Mr. Few said. As for Mr. Obama, he added, ''It seems that he is lost to a lot of things and oblivious and out of touch with what is going on below him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ADAM CRITTENDEN BACH, a lawyer who voted for John McCain in 2008.
 BEN FEW, a pharmacy owner who supported President Obama four years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON P. BERNSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLYGAMY (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (89%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (89%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



815 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Oil Pipeline Is Bogged Down by Politics

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DAN FROSCH; John M. Broder reported from Washington, and Dan Frosch from Denver. Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa, and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Wednesday rejected, for now, the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline, saying the $7 billion project could not be adequately reviewed within the 60-day deadline set by Congress. While the president's action does not preclude later approval of the project, it sets up a baldly partisan fight over energy, jobs and regulation that will most likely persist through the November election.
The president said his hand had been forced by Republicans in Congress, who inserted a provision in the temporary payroll tax cut bill passed in December giving the administration only until Feb. 21 to decide the fate of the 1,700-mile pipeline, which would stretch from oil sands formations in Alberta to refineries on the Gulf Coast. 
The State Department, which has authority over the project because it crosses an international border, said there was not enough time to draw a new route for the pipeline and assess the potential environmental harm to sensitive grasslands and aquifers along its path. The agency recommended that the permit be denied, and Mr. Obama concurred.
''As the State Department made clear last month,'' the president said in a statement, ''the rushed and arbitrary deadline insisted on by Congressional Republicans prevented a full assessment of the pipeline's impact, especially the health and safety of the American people, as well as our environment.''
Mr. Obama said that his action was not a final judgment on the merits of the project, which the administration had been on a slow track to approving.
''I'm disappointed that Republicans in Congress forced this decision, but it does not change my administration's commitment to American-made energy that creates jobs and reduces our dependence on oil,'' he said.
He added that he would work with the oil industry to increase domestic production and perhaps build additional pipelines within the United States.
The trans-border pipeline has become a political flashpoint, with proponents saying it will create thousands of jobs and help wean the nation off of Middle Eastern oil, while opponents charge that it furthers dependence on dirty fuels, contributes to global warming and threatens ecological disaster.
Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, who has been a strong advocate of the pipeline, told Mr. Obama in a telephone conversation on Wednesday that he was profoundly disappointed in the decision.
The White House spokesman, Jay Carney, at a briefing with reporters on Wednesday before the State Department released its announcement, was sharply critical of the Republican-sponsored legislation that he said had forced a decision before the project could be fully studied and might have unwittingly delayed it.
Brendan Buck, the spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner said: ''President Obama is about to destroy tens of thousands of American jobs and sell American energy security to the Chinese. The president won't stand up to his political base even to create American jobs. This is not the end of this fight.''
The Republican presidential candidates have already made clear that they intend to use the Keystone issue to portray the Obama administration as an enemy of business that is doing the bidding of extreme environmentalists. The pipeline issue has also become part of a broader narrative that the Republican candidates are trying to develop about Mr. Obama, one that argues that his administration is vastly expanding regulation in ways that prevent private industries from expanding and hiring.
Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, criticized the decision in a statement.
''President Obama's decision to reject the Keystone XL crude oil pipeline is as shocking as it is revealing,'' Mr. Romney said. ''If Americans want to understand why unemployment in the United States has been stuck above 8 percent for the longest stretch since the Great Depression, decisions like this one are the place to begin.
''By declaring that the Keystone pipeline is not in the 'national interest,' the president demonstrates a lack of seriousness about bringing down unemployment, restoring economic growth and achieving energy independence.''
On the stump and in debates, the Republican candidates have been using the possibility that Mr. Obama would block the pipeline construction as a reliable applause line about what they view as overregulation that is strangling the economic recovery.
At an event in Ottumwa, Iowa, on Dec. 31, Rick Santorum mocked the idea that the pipeline posed the threat of environmental damage, noting that there were already many other pipelines in the area it would go through. ''This is just, again, pandering to radical environmentalists who don't want energy production, who don't want us to burn more carbon,'' Mr. Santorum said.
TransCanada, the company proposing to build the pipeline, said that it would quickly apply for a new permit to build along a similar route.
''While we are disappointed, TransCanada remains fully committed to the construction of Keystone XL,'' said Russ K. Girling, the company's chief executive. ''Plans are already under way on a number of fronts to largely maintain the construction schedule of the project. We will reapply for a presidential permit and expect a new application would be processed in an expedited manner to allow for an in-service date of late 2014.''
Kerri-Ann Jones, the assistant secretary of state for oceans and international environmental and scientific affairs, said Wednesday that any new application filed by TransCanada would trigger an entirely fresh review process, no matter how similar the pipeline route, and that the process could not be ''expedited'' as TransCanada hoped.
The American Petroleum Institute, the industry's main lobbying group, has begun a multimillion-dollar lobbying and advertising campaign promoting the pipeline.
Jack N. Gerard, the group's president, was unusually harsh in his remarks on Mr. Obama's decision.
''How can you say you are for jobs and reject the largest shovel-ready project in America today?'' Mr. Gerard said at an energy forum on Wednesday afternoon. ''Mr. President, what are you thinking?''
The pipeline extension was designed to increase Canadian oil exports to the United States by 700,000 barrels a day, or about 4 percent of current United States demand. By connecting the oil sands to refineries on the Gulf Coast, it would provide new supplies to big East Coast markets. The pipeline, at least theoretically, could also increase exports of refined gasoline and diesel for export, especially to Mexico.
Canada has the world's second-largest proven oil reserves after Saudi Arabia, with 170 billion out of its 174 billion barrels residing in oil sands in the West, according to the Canadian government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: House Republican leaders -- from left, Jeb Hensarling, Eric Cantor and Speaker John A. Boehner -- said Wednesday that rejecting the Keystone XL pipeline would cost thousands of jobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ERIC HYLDEN/GRAND FORKS HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); APPROVALS (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC CANTOR (72%); JEB HENSARLING (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); STEPHEN HARPER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



816 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Anchors Aweigh, My Boys

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C.
This week, Rick Santorum held a town hall meeting on a retired aircraft carrier. It was definitely a more dramatic venue than the last time I saw him, in a nursing home auditorium in New Hampshire.
As the candidate made small talk with supporters in the hangar bay of the U.S.S. Yorktown, his staff was frantically trying to fold away some of the empty chairs to make the audience look larger. They shooed the attendees -- who appeared to be mainly a few families with home-schooled children and one woman with a very busy red-white-and-blue hat -- into the middle ''so we can have you guys in the camera shot.''
Although the meeting area was cold and smelled vaguely fishy, everyone in the little audience seemed upbeat, even the woman who expressed concern that the federal government was planning to round up local Tea Party members and put them in a FEMA concentration camp ''that has a razor-wire fence around it.'' 
''I'm not familiar with that at all,'' said Santorum, who was looking slightly less chipper than his fans. (The Federal Emergency Management Agency says there is no plan to round up the Tea Party. The agency doesn't have any concentration camps. Just in case you were worried.)
But I digress. The point here is that while South Carolina is a very lively state, this primary has been lacking the kind of anything-can-happen excitement that made Iowa one long frostbitten romp. But things could change! Voting on Saturday! And here's how everybody is doing:
MITT ROMNEY The South Carolina primary has been one long obsession with Mitt Romney's extreme richness. This is partly because Newt Gingrich keeps carping on it. Which, to be honest, we have enjoyed very much. But, mainly, it's because Mitt is so weird and off-putting on the subject. Like the time he told people he was unemployed. And, this week, when he dismissed the fees he earns as a public speaker, which ran to $374,327 in one recent year, as ''not very much.''
People, what is it with this guy? Mitt was charging around $42,000 a speech. If you were planning to run for president and didn't need money, would you deliberately pursue a sideline that would put you in the top 1 percent for about 12 hours' worth of work? And, while we're at it, if you were that rich and had a very large family to take to Canada, wouldn't you hire a plane? What kind of obsession is it that makes a multi-multi-multimillionaire show up for the GoldenTree Asset Management convention for a $68,000 fee? Or drive for 12 hours with the Irish setter strapped to the car roof?
RON PAUL During the recent South Carolina debate, Paul called for a ''golden rule in foreign policy,'' in which we would refrain from doing things to other countries we would not like done to us. This triggered cries of outrage from the audience on behalf of the New Exceptionalism, which holds that the United States is the only country with ''do-to'' rights.
But Paul has pretty much written off South Carolina anyway. He's hoping the race drags on to February and caucus states like Maine and Nevada, where a candidate with a small-but-dedicated following has an advantage. Even if that following appears to be composed largely of slightly abrasive young men with high IQs who smoke and wear hunter caps with ear flaps.
RICK PERRY You may have heard the rumor that Perry is doing better in his campaign performances lately. Frequently, the words ''doing better'' are spoken in the same tone used when describing, say, a 97-year-old heart attack victim on a ventilator. Lately, he has been expressing his patriotism by denouncing the Obama administration's stern treatment of the Marines who urinated on dead Afghans. At a recent speech in South Carolina, he referred to Washington as a ''suburb.'' But, at this point, really, people have stopped keeping track.
NEWT GINGRICH Once again in South Carolina, Gingrich is proving that he is the top debater in the field. Truly, if the office of president of the United States involved nothing but debating in front of enthusiastic Republican audiences, he would be far and away the best possible choice. If nominated, Newt promises that he will follow Barack Obama around the country challenging him to a series of three-hour-long ''Lincoln-Douglas'' debates. He can already imagine it! I bet you can, too.
RICK SANTORUM Santorum enjoys spending time with his wife and seven kids, doing 50 push-ups every morning, and pressuring for a recount of the Iowa caucus vote. He also likes sweater vests, talking about his coal-miner grandfather and visiting aircraft carriers to drive home his campaign slogan. Which is ''Courage to Fight for America'' not ''Already in Drydock.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); HOME SCHOOLING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (73%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (88%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



817 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Securities Lawsuits Hold Steady but Below Average

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The number of investor lawsuits alleging fraud at corporations remained mostly flat last year, a new study finds. But if it were not for suits tied to mergers and I.P.O.'s of Chinese companies, litigation would be below historical norms. 

 BODY:
While some commentators may believe that corporate America is awash in class-action lawsuits by angry investors, a new study to be published on Thursday suggests otherwise.
The number of federal securities lawsuits filed by investors alleging fraud at corporations remained mostly flat last year, according to the study, by Stanford University Law School and Cornerstone Research. But if it were not for litigation tied to mergers and initial public offerings of Chinese companies, courtroom battles by investors would be below the historical average.
According to the study, 188 federal securities class-action suits were filed last year, compared with 176 filed the prior year. Even then, that figure trails the annual average of 194 filings for the period from 1997 to 2010.
Most of the lawsuits filed continued to be tied to deals, as investors and their lawyers argue that a particular merger or acquisition unfairly deprived shareholders of potentially higher gains or that insider trading had taken place. About 23 percent of the class-action suits filed last year arose from deal-making, roughly flat from the previous year.
"It's only the growth of merger-related litigation, which has historically been brought in state courts, that inflates the aggregate statistics so that they even approach historic norms," Joseph Grundfest, a Stanford law professor, said in a statement.
Intriguingly, the biggest jump in class-action litigation was tied to the I.P.O.'s of Chinese companies seeking listings in the United States -- many of which became the target of accusations that such offerings were built on fraud. According to the study, 33 such lawsuits were filed, comprising 17.6 percent of all federal class-action cases. By contrast, just nine were filed in all of 2010.
This is not likely to be a trend that lasts, however. Of the 33 Chinese reverse-merger lawsuits filed last year, 24 were brought up in the first half of the year, and nine in the back half. 
Meanwhile, only three class-action lawsuits were filed that were tied to the financial crisis of 2008. That number is down from 53 filed in 2009. Financial institutions in general were increasingly rare targets for such lawsuits, constituting just 13.3 percent of defendants last year.
"Taken together, these data suggest that there are far fewer claims of traditional securities fraud by U.S. issuers than has been the case since the mid-1990s," Professor Grundfest added.

        
The Limits of Bigger Penalties in Fighting Financial Crime
        
A $50 Billion Claim of Havoc Looms for Bank of America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (97%); LITIGATION (97%); CLASS ACTIONS (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); MERGERS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); REVERSE MERGERS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%) class-action lawsuits; Joseph Grundfest; Securities Fraud; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Stanford University; I.P.O./Offerings; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%) Stanford University

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



818 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Seeks $500 Billion More to Lend

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: I.M.F. seeks additional funding as economic outlook for emerging economies is bleak. 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund said Wednesday, that it was "seeking as much as $500 billion more to lend as it prepared to slash its forecasts of global growth," Annie Lowrey wrote in The New York Times.
The fund made its announcement as economists warned, "not just about the effects of a possible double-dip recession in Europe, but also about new troubles in the emerging economies, including Brazil, India and Turkey, that have helped drive the global recovery," Ms. Lowrey writes.
Still, the fund might face resistance to expanding its lending capacity. The United States, which holds the biggest voting share in the fund and is the only country with an effective veto on major decisions, has insisted it will not pour any more resources into the monetary fund.
Read full article here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (88%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



819 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Carpetbagger)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Sundance, Brought to You By (Your Brand Here)

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: Corporate sponsors are back en mass at the Sundance Film Festival. 

 BODY:
PARK CITY, Utah -- As Sundance devotees swarmed this ski town for another orgy of indie film -- required accoutrements: iPhone, messy haircut, precious-looking glasses -- they encountered creatures that have been relatively scarce in recent years.
Where did all of these corporate sponsors come from?
The 2012 festival, getting under way here Thursday night, has eight new official backers: Adobe, General Electric, Sprint, Yahoo, Bertolli, Grey Goose, Time Warner and Hilton. (Honda and Trident did not return, making a net increase of six.) "We're very fortunate," said Keri Putnam, executive director of the Sundance Institute. "At the recession's lowest point we did see a bit of dip in sponsorships."
A Sundance spokesman declined to discuss specifics of how much sponsors chipped in, but did say that "most" are in the "six-figure range." (No word on how General Electric feels about Sundance's inclusion of "We're Not Broke," a feisty, Occupy-tinged documentary that looks at how giant companies, including G.E., avoid paying United States income tax.)
 Companies have long lingered around the edges of the festival in hopes some cool will rub off on their brands, but there seem to be more of them this year -- a return to the frothy pre-recession days. "It's back to the future," said Tom Bernard, the co-president of Sony Pictures Classics and a longtime attendee. "It feels like a scene again." 
Everywhere you look there is a corporate logo, including Kenneth Cole on the salmon-ish colored jackets (heavy on the ish) worn by Sundance volunteers. Events will take place at the Skullcandy Compound, the Bertolli Meal Soup Chalet and a three-level bar taken over by Bing, the "Official Search Engine of the Sundance Film Festival."
Other brands publicists have pitched us include Ford, W Residences, T-Mobile, 7 for All Mankind jeans, Tic-Tac mints, Solstice sunglasses, Patron tequila and Ultimat vodka. As of opening day of the festival, this reporter had received 259 unsolicited pitches from PR people trying to focus attention on one thing or another, on par with the 271 received by opening day last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (92%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BRANDING (70%) Kenneth Cole; Sundance Film Festival (Park City, Utah); Ford Motor Co; General Electric Company; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Sony Pictures Entertainment; Sundance Institute; T-Mobile; Time Warner Inc; Park City (Utah); Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; General Electric Company|GE|NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Time Warner Inc|TWX|NYSE; Sundance Film Festival

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); SKULLCANDY INC (53%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (91%) Ford Motor Co; General Electric Company; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Sony Pictures Entertainment; Sundance Institute; T-Mobile; Time Warner Inc

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); SKUL (NASDAQ) (53%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; Time Warner Inc; TWX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Park City (Utah)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



820 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: English Proficiency Classes Shrink as Demand Climbs

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: The shortage in state-financed English-language classes for adults could undermine the state's economic growth, researchers report. 

 BODY:
Every year, New York State attracts more and more immigrants from around the world seeking new jobs, new opportunities, new lives. Many of them, not surprisingly, arrive not knowing how to speak English well, inhibiting their search for work and their ability to assimilate. 
But as the demand for English-language courses has soared, the supply has dropped, according to a report issued Thursday by the Center for an Urban Future, a research institute based in Lower Manhattan.
Between 2005 and 2009, the number of adults in New York State who spoke English "less than very well" grew by 6 percent, to about 1.7 million from about 1.6 million, the report said, citing Census Bureau figures. But during the same period, the reach of specialized state-financed language classes decreased: In 2009, only 4 percent of New York's adults with low English proficiency were enrolled in English for Speakers of Other Language classes, down from 5 percent in 2005, the report said.
This widening gap between demand and supply could have far-reaching economic consequences for New York, the report said. The shortage "threatens the state's ability to tap the skills of immigrant entrepreneurs and workers to strengthen local economies," said the report, which is titled "Bad English." 
The lack of programs offering English classes is becoming a problem across the state as a growing number of communities experience a sharp increase in their immigrant populations, including jumps in Albany, Dutchess, Erie, Onondaga and Rockland Counties, the report said.
But the most severe drop in the capacity of the state-financed programs was in the New York metropolitan area. The number of adults in the city lacking English proficiency rose by 3 percent between 2005 and 2009, to about 1.3 million from about 1.2 million, while enrollment in English-language classes dropped 6 percent, the report said. 
In Westchester County, the English-deficient population rose 3 percent from 2005 to 2009 as enrollment in English classes fell 15 percent, the report said. Meanwhile, the number of adults lacking English proficiency on Long Island rose by 12 percent while enrollment in English classes plunged 25 percent. 
The authors of the report said a decline in state financing was "the most significant cause" of the drop in enrollment. Adjusting for inflation, they said, state allocations for English for Speakers of Other Languages programs have dropped every year since 1995, when the state capped financing for the largest adult literacy program, Employment Preparation Education, at $96 million. 
But the researchers at the Center for an Urban Future also found some encouraging developments. Even though a smaller percentage of adults lacking English proficiency are receiving state-financed language education, innovations in the state's Education Department have resulted in greater achievement among those adults who are enrolled. 
The rate at which English-language students climb at least one literacy level increased to 55 percent in 2010, up from 38 percent in 2005, the report said. 
"Nevertheless, the growing unmet demand for ESOL instruction is a cause for great concern," the report said. "Increasing English instruction capacity would almost certainly yield benefits for the state economy." 

        
Complaint Box | Pre-Ponderance
        
Land of Lonely Tongues
        
Speaking the Language of School Control

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); CITIES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CENSUS (72%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%) English; languages; English Language; Immigration and Emigration; Language and Languages; Center for an Urban Future; New York City; New York State; Immigration

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%) Center for an Urban Future

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



821 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Videos Capture Self-Immolation Protest in Morocco

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A video offers a rare glimpse of the wave of self-immolations that has spread across North Africa and the Middle East. 

 BODY:
Silhouetted against a ball of flame, a Moroccan protester lurched forward through a screaming crowd in the center of Morocco's capital, Rabat. The scene, captured on video, offers a rare glimpse of the spate of self-immolations across North Africa and the Middle East in emulation of the Tunisian protest that helped set off the Arab Spring.
Five men set themselves on fire opposite Morocco's lower house of Parliament during a protest this week over a lack of economic opportunity, according to local media and news agency reports. Moroccan authorities nearby quickly doused the men to extinguish the flames, leaving them with severe burns. Three were hospitalized, two in serious condition, The Associated Press reported.
A shaky video, uploaded on Wednesday to an account belonging to a Moroccan journalist with other clips from the protest, captured the fleeting moment when one of the men was fully engulfed in flames. (Warning: It is a disturbing video.) 
The same account also includes grisly footage of one of the men speaking immediately after the fire had been put out. Shirtless and dazed, his skin hung from his body, and he repeated a basic prayer as he stared at the crowd. 
The men are members of a group of the country's unemployed who have struggled to find work despite graduating from university. Roughly 160 members of the group have been occupying a Ministry of Higher Education building for the two weeks as part of the protest, The A.P. reported. The five men threatened to burn themselves after the authorities stopped allowing supporters to deliver food to the occupied building.
"They threatened to immolate themselves, but we never believed them," observed the local news Web site Demain Online. (Warning: Link contains graphic images.) "Now we know they are capable of doing it." The site added: "Morocco is boiling. It's the least one can say." 
The self-immolations follow scores of similar desperate protests in Tunisia, Jordan and elsewhere in the Middle East over the last year, as The Lede reported last week. These have continued more than a year after an impoverished 26-year-old fruit vendor set himself on fire in Tunisia to protest his dire economic situation and the actions of the local police, setting off protests that eventually toppled the Tunisian government.
While some Muslim clerics have maintained that such suicidal protests are forbidden under Islam, self-immolations used to protest perceived injustice are viewed by many Muslims as acts of courage and not as suicide, as my colleague Robert F. Worth has reported.

        
Spate of Self-Immolations Reported in Tunisia
        
Video Shows Observers in Syrian City as Protests Swell
        
Audio of Egyptian Military Briefing to Foreign Reporters
        
3 Americans Arrested in Cairo
        
'Twitter Trolls' Haunt Discussions of Bahrain Online

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); FIRES (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BURN INJURIES (89%); RELIGION (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); WRITERS (68%); SUICIDE (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) Arab Spring; Morocco; self-immolation; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Politics and Government; Middle East; News; world

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) MIDDLE EAST (96%); TUNISIA (95%); MOROCCO (94%); AFRICA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (94%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%) Middle East; Morocco

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



822 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: How Humans Spread Both Ecological Disruption and Diversity

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A fresh assessment shows how humans have enriched most ecosystems even as they've disrupted them. 

 BODY:
 of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, is one of a growing network of biologists charting the fate of living systems in the Anthropocene, this epoch in which that phenomenon once known as "nature" is increasingly shaped, wittingly or not, by human actions.
In this "Your Dot" contribution, he describes his latest research, which shows that humans have enriched most ecosystems even as they've disrupted them: 
What have we done to plant biodiversity?
Today in PLoS one, my lab released "All is not loss: Plant Biodiversity in the Anthropocene" -- the first spatially explicit global assessment of contemporary patterns of terrestrial plant biodiversity (native loss + exotic species gain) at regional landscape scales.
The main result: humans have caused a net increase in plant species richness across two-thirds of the terrestrial biosphere, mostly by facilitating species invasions. In most regional landscapes, native species losses were significantly lower than exotic species gains, with agriculture species causing minor increases, but ornamental species sometimes play a large role that is still hard to assess. While assessing these global patterns required heavy use of models, the work builds on a great deal of existing work by others to come to this conclusion.
Ellis has created a Web site for the project and has posted a more detailed description on his Human Landscapes blog.
There'll be more here on this theme soon from Emma Marris, the author of one of the most valuable books of 2011, "Rambunctious Garden: Saving Nature in a Post-Wild World." Listen to what she says in this short video interview.
Ellis and Marris were among four authors of a recent op-ed article in The Times on this theme, titled "The Age of Man is Not a Disaster." 
Here's Ellis discussing his research in a videotaped "Tea" accompanying an article on the Anthropocene in The Economist last year:
There's more on ecology in the age of man in a recent Washington Post article by Joel Achenbach and a 2010 piece from Ronald Bailey in Reason explaining how "local biodiversity is increasing because of man, not despite him."
Ellis's online efforts are just the kind of approach being explored at the Science Online 2012 conference I'm attending in Raleigh, N.C., at which hundreds of scientists, journalists and bloggers are trying to figure out fresh ways to convey (and in some cases conduct) science using the Web. You can learn of more such work by sifting for the tag #scio12 on Twitter.

        
Dot Shot: Newt Under January Ice
        
The Many Forces Driving Extinction
        
Extinction and its Discontents
        
British Parakeets and the Tumbleweed Blues
        
World Bank Pushes to Include Ecology in Accounting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIODIVERSITY (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (87%); WRITERS (86%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) anthropocene; Biodiversity; ecology; Nature; University of Maryland, Baltimore County; Anthropocene; biology

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (94%) University of Maryland, Baltimore County

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



823 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Two More Billion-Dollar Weather Disasters

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: Severe weather last July in in the Rockies and Tropical Storm Lee in August and September caused more than $1 billion in damages, bringing the total number of such events in 2011 to 14, NOAA says. 

 BODY:
The count of billion-dollar weather disasters for 2011 has taken another jump. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, still adding up the costs of the extreme weather events that plagued the country last year, announced on Thursday that two more had surpassed the $1 billion mark, for a total of 14. And the agency is still counting.
The latest additions were Tropical Storm Lee, in early September, and a severe weather outbreak in theRockies and Midwest from July 10 to 14. Lee hit the Gulf Coast and caused wind and flood damage across a broad swath of the country, with some of the worst flooding in New York and Pennsylvania. The Rockies outbreak featured wind, hail and floods, notably in Colorado and Wyoming.
The previously tallied billion-dollar events in 2011 included the drought in Texas, floods in the Upper Midwest and Mississippi River valley, Hurricane Irene and the associated flooding in the Northeast, and some of the deadliest tornado outbreaks on record. Among the events that may yet add up to billion-dollar disasters was the freak Halloween weekend snowstorm that left millions of people without electricity.

The number of billion-dollar events recorded by NOAA hit a record for 2011, but not too much can be made of that, since the government does not recalculate the tally in past years to account for inflation. Rising population and increased property values are certainly part of the reason for the increase in billion-dollar disasters, Kathryn D. Sullivan, the deputy NOAA administrator, pointed out.
But scientists also suspect that climate change is playing a role in at least some of these events, like the rising temperatures that contributed to the Texas drought, and a pattern of heavier rainfalls. In a recent article, I outlined the factors that are preventing more thorough analysis of whether climate extremes are being caused by human-induced global warming.
Thursday's statement from NOAA, containing many useful links, can be found here; a slide show with figures is available here; and a list of cities breaking annual temperature and precipitation records in 2011 can be found here.

        
Weather Alerts Are Imperiled, NOAA Warns
        
Climate Change to Force Mass Migration, Study Warns
        
A Photo Finish for Warmest Year on Record
        
Millions Will Be Trapped Amid Climate Change, Study Warns
        
On Our Radar: Asian Climate Refugees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (96%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); DAMAGES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); RIVERS (75%); POWER FAILURES (71%) climate change; Drought; extreme weather; Floods; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; storms; Tornadoes; Global Warming; Hurricane Irene (2011); Rain; Gulf Coast (US); Mississippi River; Northeastern States (US); Pennsylvania; Texas; Wyoming; forests; Research/Studies; Rivers; Science; Water Quantity; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (93%) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Gulf Coast (US); Mississippi River; Northeastern States (US); Pennsylvania; Texas; Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



824 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Want a Cheaper Super Bowl Ticket? Wait Two Weeks.

BYLINE: ANDREW W. LEHREN


HIGHLIGHT: Recent data indicates that prices for Super Bowl tickets spike just after the conference championship games, then fall, precipitously, as game time nears and sellers become nervous about being stuck with tickets. 

 BODY:
Think you might want to go to the Super Bowl? To get the lowest price on the resale market, you may want to wait until the last minute.
Data from the resale site StubHub.com for the past two Super Bowls indicates that prices spike just after the conference championship games, once fans know if their team has advanced. Prices then fall, precipitously, as game time nears and sellers become nervous about being stuck with unsold tickets.
"This is a window into how markets operate," said David Harrington, an economics professor at Kenyon College whose class lessons include examining Super Bowl ticket data.
As of Wednesday, several thousand tickets were available for this year's Super Bowl, on Feb. 5 in Indianapolis. Asking prices started at $2,099. If the past two Super Bowls are any guide, the peak number of transactions will occur on Monday, when the winners of the 49ers-Giants game and the Ravens-Patriots game are known.
Last year, the lowest price on that Monday was $2,500, with the median nearly $3,000 for about 570 tickets sold for the Super Bowl between the Green Bay Packers and the Pittsburgh Steelers. But on the Thursday before the game, the lowest price had dipped to $1,500, and the median was close to $2,600 for the almost 180 tickets sold that day.
The year before, when the New Orleans Saints beat the Indianapolis Colts, the pattern was similar. On the Monday after the conference championships, the lowest price was a shade under $1,700 with a median of almost $2,200 for close to 600 tickets sold. By Super Bowl Sunday, the low had plunged to $795, with a median closer to $1,700 for about 370 tickets sold.
If the Giants advance to the Super Bowl, their fans might have more competition than others. Resale data suggests that buyers typically come from the states with competing teams, the region where the Super Bowl is being played and the wealthy metropolitan regions of New York and Washington.

        
Super Bowl Advertising Sells Out
        
NBC Will Stream Super Bowl
        
Arizona Gets 2015 Super Bowl
        
Embracing a Snow Bowl
        
At Combine, Rex Ryan Guarantees Super Bowl Win

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%) Super Bowl; Football

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (55%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (55%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (54%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



825 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; global

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Tracking the Hezbollah Connection in Thailand

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: PARIS - An intelligence analyst in the United States says Hezbollah is almost certainly implicated in the seizure of bomb-making chemicals in Thailand this week. But contrary to statements by Thai officials, terrorists probably planned to use the ingredients inside the country. 

 BODY:
PARIS - When police in Thailand this week discovered large stockpiles of chemicals often used to make bombs, they quickly said the material was going to be shipped out of Thailand to another (unnamed) country. The chemicals -fertilizer ingredients in bags labelled as kitty litter - were going to be packed into boxes labeled electric fans and exported.
The police said they were led to the stash by a Lebanese man with connections to Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed group the United States and Israel have classified as a terrorist organization. The American and Israeli embassies in Bangkok quickly issued travel warnings to their citizens. United States Ambassador Kristie A. Kenney tweeted:
our advice 2 US in BKK re terrorist threat: caution in areas w large grps of western tourists in BKK; keep low profile in public areas.
- Kristie Kenney (@KristieKenney) January 13, 2012
The case remains murky, at least publicly. But an intelligence analyst in the United States said Thursday that although Hezbollah is almost certainly involved, the bomb ingredients were probably supposed to stay in Thailand, most likely to be used in future attacks against Israeli targets there.
Bombings in foreign countries would be "a weapon of last resort for Hezbollah should Israel strike at nuclear facilities in Iran," said the analyst, who has briefed the U.S. Congress on terrorism but is not authorized to speak publicly on this issue. He said Hezbollah "will target Israelis anywhere in the world."
Western intelligence agencies know that Hezbollah operatives have scouted El Al offices and counters in Thailand, as well as the Chabad House in Bangkok and other places where Israelis gather in the backpacker district around Khao San Road. The intelligence group Stratfor on Thursday published a comprehensive report about the current case.
Hezbollah's representative in Iran proclaimed in 2006 that the group was intent on widening its attacks on Israelis. "There will be no place they are safe," said Hossein Safiadeen. 
The true extent of Hezbollah's reach across Southeast Asia is unclear, according to Zachary Abuza, a professor and political scientist at the National War College in Washington. The group has penetrated Shia communities in various countries, Mr. Abuza said, and he estimates there are some 2.5 million Shiite Muslims in the region.
Hezbollah actively solicits donations and has "engaged in money-laundering, fund raising and the control of illicit sales - mainly of counterfeit products," Mr. Abuza said in an academic paper in 2008. Anecdotal evidence suggests those products have included pirated DVDs and cigarettes.
A group of Iranians was alleged to have planned a truck-bomb attack on the Israeli Embassy in Bangkok in 1994. The plan failed when the truck was involved in a traffic accident en route to the embassy. The driver fled the scene and the truck was towed away by the police, who only discovered the bomb three days later.
Hezbollah, the intelligence analyst said, has a state sponsor that keeps the group reliably supplied with military-grade explosives worldwide. Hence, there would be no need to risk shipping large quantities of urea and ammonium nitrate.
Thai officials are certainly concerned about any suggestion that bomb-making materials would be found (and remain) in Thailand. The effect on tourism, a key sector of the Thai economy, could be disastrous, especially as American and European travelers make plans to flee the winter back home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (94%); TERRORISM (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); FUNDRAISING (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); POLITICS (60%); RELIGION (60%) Hezbollah; Thailand; tourism; Defense and Military Forces; Politics and Government; Terrorism; Chabad-Lubavitch; Bangkok (Thailand); Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%) Chabad-Lubavitch; Hezbollah

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); THAILAND (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Bangkok (Thailand); Thailand

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



826 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Bankrupt, Kodak Vows to Rebound

BYLINE: ANDREW MARTIN and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The film pioneer has been trying to reinvent itself for years; some skeptics see liquidation as more likely. 

 BODY:
In filing for bankruptcy protection early Thursday morning, Eastman Kodak executives say they are seeking to follow the path of American corporations that have reinvented themselves after a court-supervised reorganization, like United Airlines and Chrysler.
Antonio M. Perez, the company's oft-criticized chief executive who has been trying to turn the company around since 2005, said the bankruptcy was a step "in our transformation in order to build the strongest possible foundation for the Kodak of the future."
 "What everyone should expect from Kodak is business as usual," he said, in a video message.
For critics, business as usual is exactly the problem with Kodak. They questioned how Kodak would emerge from bankruptcy as a viable company since it has not yet proved that its turnaround strategy, focusing on consumer and commercial printers, can turn a profit.
"My sense is they have played every card they can dig out of the deck," said Jay Lawrence Westbrook, a business law professor at the University of Texas. He predicted that Kodak would liquidate most of its assets, with some parts remaining as viable companies, perhaps even called Kodak.
But he added, "I would be very surprised if they reorganized and look anything like the Kodak that went in."
Shannon Cross, an analyst who has had a sell rating on Kodak since 2001, said the problem for Kodak was that its core businesses had not been making money and the company had been living off licensing fees for intellectual property.
"To me it's not clear that the pieces that will be left at the end make sense as a stand-alone company," she said. "It's sad that it happened. It's not a surprise, the way it's been managed."
The predecessor to Kodak, Eastman Dry Plate Company, was formed as a partnership in 1881 by George Eastman, and it became one of America's blue-chip giants, a company whose name became synonymous with taking pictures and its ubiquitous yellow film box. But the company was slow to respond to competition in the film business from Fujifilm of Japan, which undercut Kodak's prices.
And though one of its own researchers invented the digital camera, Kodak was slow to embrace digital photography.
At a court hearing on Thursday evening, a lawyer representing Kodak creditors questioned management's plan to borrow $950 million from Citigroup to stay afloat during the bankruptcy process, noting that the company had burned through $2 billion in the last two years trying to reinvent itself.
"From our perspective, what's past is prologue," said Michael Stamer, the lawyer. "They have taken what we believe is reckless and destructive spending and imposed them on this case."
Under Mr. Perez, who joined Kodak from Hewlett-Packard in 2003 and became chief executive in 2005, the company has tried to reinvent itself by focusing on printers, packaging and work force software.
Mr. Perez financed those efforts with billions in licensing fees from Kodak's intellectual property, but analysts warned that Kodak was burning through cash too quickly and could eventually run out.
Kodak announced last July that it would try to sell some of its digital imaging patents, hoping to cash in on a frenzy for intellectual property that drove Google's $12.5 billion takeover of Motorola Mobility. But Kodak failed to garner enough interest among potential buyers, driven in part by fears of the company's deteriorating financial health.
In explaining the bankruptcy, Mr. Perez said his turnaround efforts were hurt by the recession, which slowed new business growth and expedited the decline of the film business. He said the objectives of the reorganization included obtaining new financing to shore up confidence in Kodak, selling some of the company's patents and adjusting "legacy" costs - like health care benefits for retirees - to the company's now smaller size.
"Kodak is taking a significant step toward enabling our enterprise to complete its transformation," he said in prepared remarks.
The bankruptcy is expected to help with the patent sale, and it could also allow Kodak to shed some of its retiree obligations.
Bob Volpe, president of EKRA, an association of Kodak retirees, said the pension fund was well funded, and it generally could not be clawed back by the company or creditors. But the company also provides health benefits to its 38,000 retirees in the United States, he explained, and that coverage will probably be vulnerable in bankruptcy court. Last year, those health care benefits cost $240 million, according to company figures.
"If you look at the pattern of what has happened from other companies in bankruptcy, that's what happened," he said.
Allan L. Gropper, the federal bankruptcy judge overseeing the case, said, "Kodak is a great American institution, and every creditor here, I'm sure, wants to see it get out of Chapter 11 as soon as possible and to prosper. The question today is how to do that quickly and simply."
The first task may be for Kodak to sell the patents it has been trying to unload, said Daniel C. McElhinney, managing director of corporate restructuring for Epiq Systems. Though buyers may have been skittish, he said a court-supervised sale provided greater protection against liens and other claims. A Kodak lawyer estimated the patents were worth $2.2 billion to $2.6 billion.
If the sale is successful, and depending on how much money remains, Kodak will then have to convince the court that it has a viable business plan. Lawrence R. Perkins, senior managing director at Conway Mackenzie, a restructuring and financial advisory firm, said that a bankruptcy could provide Kodak with a fresh start, but it would not be easy.
"This is going to be a tough one," he said. "Just like anything else, the business has evolved. It's going to be hard to unwind 130 years of history."

        
Eastman Kodak Files for Bankruptcy
        
A Judge Who Reshaped the Corporate Landscape

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (70%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Antonio M. Perez; Bankruptcy; Chapter 11; Eastman Kodak; Perez, Antonio M; Bankruptcies; Intellectual Property; Eastman Kodak Company; Eastman Kodak Company|EK|NYSE; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Technology

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%) Eastman Kodak Company

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%) Eastman Kodak Company; EK; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ANTONIO PEREZ (92%) Perez, Antonio M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



827 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Eastman Kodak Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Eastman Kodak, the 131-year-old film pioneer that has been struggling for years to adapt to an increasingly digital world, ran short of cash before a turnaround effort could succeed. 

 BODY:
Eastman Kodak, the 131-year-old film pioneer that has been struggling for years to adapt to an increasingly digital world, filed for bankruptcy protection early on Thursday.
The American legend had tried a number of turnaround strategies and cost-cutting efforts in recent years, but the company -- which since 2004 has reported only one full year of profit -- ran short of cash.
"Since 2008, despite Kodak's best efforts, restructuring costs and recessionary forces have continued to negatively impact the company's liquidity position, " Kodak's chief financial officer, Antoinette P. McCorvey, said in a court filing on Thursday.
Citigroup is providing Kodak with $950 million in financing to allow the company to keep going. Kodak plans to continue operating normally during bankruptcy.
The company will also seek to continue selling a portfolio of 1,100 digital imaging patents to raise cash for its loss-making operations.
Kodak has become the latest giant to falter in the face of advancing technology. The Borders Group liquidated last year after having failed to gain a toehold in e-books, while Blockbuster sold itself to Dish Network last year as its retail outlets lost ground to online competitors like Netflix.
Founded in 1880 by George Eastman, Kodak became one of America's most notable companies, helping establish the market for camera film and then dominating the field. But it has suffered from a variety of problems over the last four decades.
First came foreign competitors, notably Fujifilm of Japan, which undercut Kodak's prices. Then the onset of digital photography eroded demand for traditional film, squeezing Kodak's business so much that in 2003 the company said that it would halt investing in its longtime product.
The Chapter 11 filing was made in United States Bankruptcy Court in Lower Manhattan. Kodak said that its non-American subsidiaries were not part of the filing.
The company said that it had about $5.1 billion in assets and nearly $6.8 billion in debts. Its biggest group of unsecured creditors are bondholders represented by the Bank of New York Mellon who are owed $658 million.
"Kodak is taking a significant step toward enabling our enterprise to complete its transformation," Antonio M. Perez, the company's chief executive, said in a news release. "At the same time as we have created our digital business, we have also already effectively exited certain traditional operations, closing 13 manufacturing plants and 130 processing labs, and reducing our workforce by 47,000 since 2003. Now we must complete the transformation by further addressing our cost structure and effectively monetizing non-core I.P. assets."
Under Mr. Perez, who joined Kodak from Hewlett-Packard in 2003, the company has bet on inkjet printers. That strategy has yet to bear fruit, however.
It has also turned to patent lawsuits to generate revenue, winning settlements from the likes of LG of South Korea.
Nonetheless, the company has burned through its cash reserves, stoking concerns that it may run out of money. As of Sept. 30, Kodak reported having $900 million in cash and short-term investments.
As a last-ditch effort to raise cash, Kodak announced last July that it had hired Lazard to sell its digital imaging patents, hoping to cash in on a frenzy for intellectual property that drove Google's $12.5 billion takeover of Motorola Mobility. But the company had failed to garner enough interest among potential buyers, driven in part by fears of Kodak's deteriorating financial health.
But by the fall, it became apparent that Kodak was also preparing for a potential Chapter 11 filing, hiring advisers who could help with a court-supervised restructuring. As reports swirled about Kodak's preparations for bankruptcy, some of the company's vendors stopped providing services or demanding quicker payments, the company said in a court filing on Thursday.
Besides potentially aiding in the patent sale, bankruptcy protection could also allow Kodak to shed hundreds of millions of dollars in pension obligations. Kodak said in a filing that it contributed about $245 million to its United States pension obligations last year, and that it has been unable to shrink those liabilities to a more manageable level.
Earlier this month, Kodak announced a corporate overhaul that split its businesses into consumer and commercial segments, which some analysts said could aid in the sale of parts of the business.
The company has also filed new patent infringement suits against a number of competitors, including Fujifilm and Apple Inc., an effort to shore up the value of the patents it hopes to sell.
In a court filing, Kodak argued that Apple, the BlackBerry device maker Research in Motion and HTC of Taiwan all owed the company "substantial royalties" for the use of its patents in their smartphones. Reaching licensing agreements with these companies, as Kodak has done with Motorola and LG, could reap Kodak substantial fees.
Kodak is being advised by Lazard, FTI Consulting and the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell. The company said that Dominic DiNapoli, vice chairman of FTI Consulting, would serve as chief restructuring officer during Chapter 11.
Eastman Kodak's Chapter 11 petition
Kodak C.F.O.'s declaration

        
A Judge Who Reshaped the Corporate Landscape
        
Judge Allows MF Global to Continue Using Cash on Hand

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (74%); PATENT LAW (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); PATENTS (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LITIGATION (69%); RETAILERS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%) Chapter 11; Eastman Kodak; Bankruptcies; Cameras; Inventions and Patents; Eastman Kodak Company; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Technology

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); BORDERS GROUP INC (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (81%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); NETFLIX INC (55%); DISH NETWORK CORP (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Eastman Kodak Company

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%); DISH (NASDAQ) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (84%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ANTONIO PEREZ (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



828 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Apple Unveils App and Tools for Digital Textbooks

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN and NICK WINGFIELD


HIGHLIGHT: Apple wants students to bid farewell to the days of lugging around backpacks full of heavy textbooks, and to welcome the iPad tablet as their new all-in-one reading device. It announced iBooks 2, an app that will support electronic textbooks that can display interactive diagrams, audio and video. 

 BODY:
 9:02 p.m. | Updated 
Apple wants students to stop lugging around backpacks full of heavy textbooks and to switch to the iPad instead.
On Thursday the company introduced three free pieces of software revolving around education. It released iBooks 2, a new version of its electronic bookstore, where students can now download textbooks; iBooks Author, a Macintosh program for creating textbooks and other books; and iTunes U, an app for instructors to create digital curriculums and share course materials with students.
Digital textbooks made for iBooks can display interactive diagrams, audio and video. The iBooks Author app includes templates made by Apple, which publishers and authors can customize to suit their content.
Apple said electronic high school textbooks from its initial publishing partners, including Pearson, McGraw-Hill and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, would cost $15 or less. That is much cheaper than print textbooks, some of which can cost over $100.
"Education is deep in our DNA and it has been from the very beginning," said Philip W. Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of marketing, at the event at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.
Textbooks are a fat target for the technology industry. Sales of electronic textbooks accounted for only 2.8 percent of the $8 billion domestic textbook market in 2010, according to Forrester Research. For publishers, the new partnerships with Apple were more likely motivated by a desire to experiment with technology than to earn huge profits, said Sarah Rotman-Epps, a Forrester analyst.
Though the possibilities of Apple's new publishing software and the iPad seemed to excite publishers, even those who are working on iPad textbooks said it would take time for the technology to change how most textbooks are purchased. First, there is the obvious challenge of finding the money for schools to buy iPads, which start at $500 each in stores.
"It's a very high and expensive hurdle to overcome," said Josef Blumenfeld, a senior vice president at one publisher working with Apple, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
Mr. Blumenfeld said Houghton had seen high engagement levels when students used an educational app for the iPad that it had already published, and that it expected electronic textbooks to have the same effect.
He said, though, that schools would first have to become comfortable with the idea of paying for rights to iPad textbooks for new students every school year, rather than paying a one-time fee of, say, $60 for a printed textbook that lasts five or six years. Publishers, too, will have to get used to the idea of Apple taking a 30 percent commission on sales. But Mr. Blumenfeld predicted that iPad textbooks would not hurt Harcourt's profits because they would not have printing, shipping and other costs.
By most estimates, Apple has not captured as much of the electronic book market with the iPad and its iBookstore as its chief rival in the business, Amazon, has with the Kindle e-reader. But Amazon has been less successful in the education market.
Amazon in 2009 announced plans to target the textbook publishing industry with the Kindle DX, a larger version of its e-reader. But Amazon failed to make a dent in the market and did not impress students. At Princeton, which offered a Kindle DX pilot program, students complained about the device's sluggishness and limited interactivity, according to the university's student newspaper, The Daily Princetonian. Meanwhile Apple has a deep and longstanding connection with the education market.
Bill Rankin, a professor of medieval studies at Abilene Christian University, led a pilot program where students and teachers used iPhones in the classroom. He called Apple's new education tools "revolutionary," because they give users the ability to create and share books easily.
"This is something we've been dreaming about for years," he said. But Jill Ambrose, chief marketing officer at CourseSmart, which offers digital textbooks for the iPad, iPhone and Android devices, said it was a potential problem that Apple's textbooks would be exclusively available for Apple products.
"Based on the fact that you have to mandate a specific device, that's going to be difficult for school districts to decide students are going to take their strained budgets to purchase these devices," she said.

        
Reinventing Textbooks: A Hard Course
        
Today's Scuttlebot: Regulating Games and Musical Scanners
        
What We're Reading: iPad Fanboys and Facebook Likeboys
        
What We're Reading: Steve Jobs, Eric Schmidt and Barbed Wire
        
What We're Reading: Facebook vs. Google, BlackBerry vs. iPhone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (95%); TABLET COMPUTERS (93%); TEXTBOOKS (92%); PUBLISHING (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%) Apple; e books; Education; Textbooks; Amazon Kindle; Book Trade and Publishing; E-Books and Readers; iPad; Tablet Computers; Apple Incorporated; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Incorporated

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%) Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



829 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: New York Fed Sells $7 Billion in A.I.G. Assets to Credit Suisse

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The New York Fed's decision to sell the Maiden Lane assets was started by an offer from Goldman Sachs earlier this month. 

 BODY:
More than three years after the financial crisis, some of the most troubled assets involved in the housing collapse are still changing hands.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced on Thursday that it had sold assets with a face value of around $7 billion from its Maiden Lane II vehicle, which it created to store assets once held by the American International Group, the insurance company that it helped bail out in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis. The vehicle's holdings, which include A.I.G.'s soured residential mortgage-backed securities, were once worth roughly $30 billion.
"This transaction substantially reduces the ML II portfolio and loan at a desirable price," the central bank announced in a release Thursday.
The New York Fed's decision to sell the Maiden Lane assets was started by an offer from Goldman Sachs earlier this month. That offer led to an auction that included Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch, the broker-dealer arm of Bank of America, according to the release.
The terms of Credit Suisse's successful bid were not announced, but the New York Fed characterized the sale as a "good value for the public."
"I am pleased with the strength of the bids and the level of market interest in these assets," said William C. Dudley, the New York Fed's president. Profit from the sale will be announced on April 16, with the results of the rest of the Maiden Lane II portfolio.
In June, the Fed tried to unload billions of dollars worth of Maiden Lane II assets, but had to postpone the sale after it failed to produce satisfactory bids and roiled the bond markets. On Thursday, it said it would sell the rest of the assets in the portfolio "over time as market conditions warrant," while making sure "to avoid market disruption." 

        
As Irene Approaches, Banks Prepare for the Worst
        
More Wall Street Banks Grab Groupon I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); BOND MARKETS (67%) Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Barclays Capital; Credit Suisse; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Goldman Sachs; Maiden Lane; New York Fed; Dudley, William C; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; American International Group Inc; Credit Suisse Group A.G; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GROUPON INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Credit Suisse Group A.G; Federal Reserve Bank of New York

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (52%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: Dudley, William C

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



830 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Capital One Expects to Complete ING Direct Deal Soon

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Appearing to overcome consumer opposition, the bank's chief executive says Capital One "is on track" to complete the ING Direct takeover in the first quarter. 

 BODY:
Whatever happened to Capital One's bid for ING Direct USA? 
After a contentious round of Federal Reserve hearings, Congressional complaints and cries from consumer advocates who charged that the deal would create the next "too big to fail" banking behemoth, its fans and foes have gone largely silent for months. When Capital One announced the proposed $9 billion takeover in June, the bank envisioned closing the deal as soon as late last year. 
Capital One broke its silence on Thursday, using its quarterly earnings announcement as a platform to assure investors that it's all systems go. The bank expects to complete the ING Direct deal in the first quarter of 2012, while finalizing its other recent major acquisition, the $2.6 billion bid for HSBC's United States credit card business, in the second quarter of the year. 
"We remain on track," Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's chairman and chief executive, said on a conference call with analysts. He noted that the pair of deals are "game-changing acquisitions."
But the deals are costly, at least for now. 
Capital One said Thursday that its earnings plummeted roughly 40 percent in the fourth quarter, as the bank was saddled with mounting expenses, some tied to its efforts gearing up for the takeovers. The bank earned $407 million, or 88 cents a share, badly missing estimates from analysts, who projected earnings of $1.55 a share.
Capital One forecast in a statement that the deals would have a "significant impact" on its results, particularly in 2012, as the bank racks up "integration expenses." 
Still, the bank's top executives are optimistic about earning long-term gains from the acquisitions. 
"The economics of the deals are compelling, and we remain excited," Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's chief financial officer, said on the conference call. 
The ING Deal would improve Capital One's core capital levels and send its deposits soaring by some $80 billion, the bank said in the statement.
"When the deals close, I can provide you with a detailed view of how they'll affect our financials this year and beyond," Mr. Perlin said. 
While Capital One is eager to close the deals, the high-profile nature of the takeovers has drawn significant scrutiny. The ING deal would elevate Capital One, the eighth-largest bank in the United States, to the No. 5 spot.
The bank's increasing size raised concerns among consumer groups, which argued that the combined institution might one day need a taxpayer bailout. The advocacy groups, led by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, also assailed the HSBC deal for creating a perceived subprime lending sensation. About a third of Capital One's credit card portfolio carries the subprime label, defined as loans to borrowers with credit scores below 660, according to the company. 
In response, the Federal Reserve took the unusual step of holding three public hearings on the deals so consumer groups could air their grievances. Under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul, the Fed must examine whether a merger poses a systemic threat to the economy. 
Capital One, moving to blunt the criticism, vowed to go on a hiring spree after the deals closed. The bank also painted itself as a sleepy consumer lender that shuns risky Wall Street businesses, focusing instead on mom-and-pop consumers.
Regulators are now in the thick of reviewing Capital One's application, while the bank gears up for its new era.
"We're entering a time of intense integration activity," Mr. Perlin said. 

        
Consumer Groups Question Capital One's HSBC Deal
        
In Fed's Move on Capital One Deal, a Test of Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); BAILOUTS (68%); DIVESTITURES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); SALES & SELLING (56%) Capital One; Gary L. Perlin; HSBC; ING Direct; ING Direct USA; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; quarterly earnings; Richard Fairbank; Too Big to Fail; Fairbank, Richard D; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep N.V; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; ING Groep N.V|ING|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep N.V

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; ING Groep N.V; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD D FAIRBANK (90%) Fairbank, Richard D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



831 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: A Jedi of Deals Brings His Magic Back to Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: In September, Charles Cory, a longtime deal maker, returned to California to help run the firm's technology banking practice; since then, he has led a flurry of deals. 

 BODY:
Charles Cory, a longtime Morgan Stanley deal maker, spent the financial crisis cloistered in academia, working as a law professor at the University of Virginia.
But Wall Street came calling last year. With merger activity picking up, Paul J. Taubman, the co-president of Morgan Stanley's securities business, spoke to Mr. Cory to persuade him to come back full time, even sending e-mails during Mr. Cory's family vacation to Tuscany.
"Taubman said, 'This assignment will be good for you, and it will be good for Morgan Stanley,'" said Mr. Cory.
In September, he moved back to Menlo Park, Calif., to help run the firm's technology banking practice. Since then, he has led a flurry of deals. In October, he represented RightNow Technologies in its sale to Oracle for $1.5 billion. He advised SuccessFactors, which was bought for $3.4 billion by SAP in a rich deal valued at roughly 10 times projected sales.
"As activity heats up, we wanted to have the most effective, senior tech bankers in the Valley," said Mr. Taubman, who has known Mr. Cory for decades.
As Mr. Cory sees it, the industry is at the start of another bull market for mergers and acquisitions. Last year, deal volume in the sector jumped more than 26.9 percent, to $190.6 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
He has historical perspective. In his 30 years with Morgan Stanley, he has handled more than 300 deals, including the breakup of AT&T in 1984.
"There are tectonic shifts going on, and the older companies need to figure out how to play," said Mr. Cory, 56.
Mr. Cory, who restores historic homes in his spare time, has a knack for rebuilding.
In 1996, after the abrupt departure of the star banker Frank Quattrone, Morgan Stanley tapped him to shore up its Menlo Park office. He had to start from scratch; Mr. Quattrone gutted the staff on his way to a smaller rival, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. He asked three Manhattan-based bankers to relocate and then helped fill out the rest of the team.
The first year post-Quattrone was brutal, with the firm's share of the tech mergers-and-acquisitions market plunging from 62 percent for the previous year to 16 percent, according to data provided by Morgan Stanley. But by 1998, the firm had largely bounced back, accounting for nearly half of the market activity.
While deal-making was derailed by the dot-com bust that soon followed, a wave of consolidation began sweeping the enterprise software industry in 2003. PeopleSoft announced its $1.7 billion acquisition of rival J.D. Edwards.
The J.D. Edwards deal, advised by Morgan Stanley, led Oracle to submit a hostile bid for PeopleSoft just days later. In the ensuing years, Mr. Cory's team went on to advise several multibillion-dollar transactions, representing Oracle when it bought Siebel Systems in 2005 and Hyperion when it was sold to Oracle in 2007.
But after many years with the firm, Mr. Cory decided to take a sabbatical, just as the financial crisis was unfolding. He returned to his alma mater, the University of Virginia School of Law, to teach a course on acquisitions and another called "A (Necessarily) Brief Introduction to the Capital Markets." Still, he remained a banker-on-call, occasionally tapped to pinch-hit on deals and call old clients.
Now, the elder statesman is officially back - a homecoming his colleagues have affectionately called "the return of the Jedi." As the chairman of global tech banking, he is mainly focused on client relationships. He leaves the day-to-day operations to the co-heads of the group, Michael Grimes and Paul Chamberlain.
He is spending more time on the enterprise market. Many upstarts that went public from 2006 to 2008 are now contemplating whether they should merge with larger companies. At the same time, potential suitors - enterprise giants flush with cash - are seeking technologies to adjust to new trends, like the rise of Web-based, or cloud-computing, services.
Traditionally, the enterprise market has been dominated by installed software, which typically involves big upfront fees and recurring maintenance needs. Now, more businesses are migrating to cloud services that are easy to scale and allow clients to pay based on usage.
"Everyone is motivated to do a deal," said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities. "The sellers are motivated because despite the fact that they are gaining market share, they are under tremendous margin pressure to build out their sales force."
Oracle, a company that once scoffed at its cloud-based competitors, has ramped up efforts to expand its footprint in the area. Its acquisition of RightNow in October pressured SAP to close a large transaction in that field, which set up its acquisition for SuccessFactors two months later.
"SAP is the biggest player in on-premise software, and even they decided they needed to get a better platform for the cloud," Mr. Cory said.
As always, competition remains fierce. In telecommunications, media and technology deals, Morgan Stanley had the highest total in fees last year, at $357.6 million, according Thompson Reuters. But Goldman advised the most transactions, with a deal volume of $106 billion.
There's also the risk that Morgan Stanley could falter if one of its top bankers flees. Mr. Grimes - who has been with the firm since 1995 and led the I.P.O.'s of Zynga, LinkedIn and Groupon - is considered to be a star in his own right.
Mr. Cory is confident in the firm's prospects. The banker, a Facebook and Xbox user, says the business still comes down to textbook basics: relationships and sector knowledge.
In September, the chief of SuccessFactors, Lars Dalgaard, called Morgan Stanley, the firm that helped his company go public in 2007.
Less than an hour later, the bankers pulled up to the lobby of a Sheraton hotel near San Francisco. Unknown to them, Mr. Dalgaard was waiting upstairs, with a bid from SAP.
After reviewing the offer, the team - led by Mr. Cory and a top deputy, Owen O'Keeffe - discussed the assets of SuccessFactors, the merits of the deal and comparable transactions.
"They are skillful presenters - maybe a little McKinsey. They can show you what a company needs to do in a couple of slides," Mr. Dalgaard said in a recent interview, referring to the giant consulting firm. "Chuck and Owen made it easy."

        
I.B.M. to Buy DemandTec for $440 Million
        
SAP to Buy SuccessFactors for $3.4 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); HISTORY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); RELOCATIONS (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Charles Cory; Lars Dalgaard; Michael Grimes; Morgan Stanley; Oracle; Paul Chamberlain; Paul J. Taubman; RightNow Technologies; SAP; SuccessFactors; Enterprise Computing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); ORACLE CORP (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); SUCCESSFACTORS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%) Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



832 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Why Doctors Can't Predict How Long a Patient Will Live

BYLINE: PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: Predicting a patient's life expectancy, once an essential part of doctoring, remains a challenge for most doctors. 

 BODY:
Slender, in her 60s and possessing the stoicism of someone who had single-handedly raised children in the toughest section of the city, our patient faced a difficult challenge of the medical kind. She had diabetes and such severe peripheral vascular disease that even the strongest antibiotics could not heal a long-standing foot infection. She needed an operation.
This grandmother who regularly held court in her hospital room with her extended brood also suffered from high blood pressure and heart disease, and all of us on the surgical team knew that operating would be no easy feat. We could amputate her infected foot, a relatively quick operation that would carry few risks, but she would never walk again. Or we could do an arterial bypass, a more complex operation that would save her leg but that might disable or even kill her before her surgical scars ever healed.
The final decision hinged on our assessment of her likely course, or prognosis. If she was unlikely to live long, we would amputate, because it wouldn't make sense to put her at risk of other life-threatening complications just to save her leg. But to throw out some ballpark figure, an actual number of the weeks, months or years this woman we had grown to care about had left to live, meant shouldering the responsibility none of us were eager to be reminded of - that is, our potential role in hastening her death because of poor clinical decisions based on the wrong prognosis.
A week after her bypass operation, our patient died of a heart attack. The prognosis of her senior surgeon and our entire team -- that she would tolerate the surgery and survive long enough to walk again -- had been incorrect.
While not all assessments of how long someone has to live result in life-or-death clinical decisions, addressing prognosis remains a challenge for most doctors. And after struggling for several years with determining their own patients' prognoses, a group of physicians at the University of California in San Francisco set out to collect and study all the research that had been done on so-called prognostic indexes, tools that help with determining general prognosis in older patients.
Given the growing use of age-based treatment and preventive care guidelines, the doctors assumed there would be plenty of data to help decide whether, for example, an 80-year-old patient might live long enough to benefit from a colonoscopy, a cancer screening procedure that can have its own set of complications.
But they found little.
Prognosis was rarely, if ever, alluded to in the most popular medical textbooks and on clinical Web sites used by practicing physicians. Even the widely used medical database PubMed, maintained by the National Library of Medicine, had no specific indexing category for prognosis, making finding any published study on the subject like searching for a book in a library before the Dewey Decimal System.
While the researchers were finally able to single out 16 indexes that hold promise in helping doctors predict how long a patient might live, there was "insufficient evidence at this time" to recommend any of them for widespread clinical use. None of the indexes had been tried with groups of individuals other than the initial test group to confirm reliability, and every single one had a potential source of bias. Some studies were never able to follow up on the final outcomes of a substantial subset of patients; others used researchers intimately involved with the development of the prognostic tool, and not impartial observers, to validate findings.
"There's a need for much more research in this area," said Dr. Eric W. Widera, one of the authors of the study, which appeared in The Journal of the American Medical Association. "Compared to diagnosis and treatment, prognosis is like the unloved stepchild of medicine."
A century ago, predicting a patient's life expectancy was an essential part of doctoring. Details relating to the art and science of "prognosticating" occupied a prominent position in textbooks, journals and conversations with patients. That emphasis began to shift as technology advanced, with doctors focusing more and more of their time on treatment and diagnosis.
Economic forces reinforced this new emphasis, as it became clear that while the ability to predict the timing of a patient's death was useful, the tools to treat and diagnose were profitable.
Perhaps even more important, prognosis has now become a potent symbol of the limits of medicine. With a growing array of successful treatments at hand, doctors often have the power to forestall death. But thinking about prognoses means recognizing not only fallibility but also possible culpability.
"Even in the privacy of their own minds, doctors don't like to think about prognosis," said Dr. Nicholas A. Christakis, a professor of medicine and medical sociology at Harvard Medical School and author of "Death Foretold" (University of Chicago Press, 2001), a book on the sociocultural issues of prognosis.
With so little research on how to predict how long a patient might live and few resources to turn to, physicians often end up relying on intuition. But studies have shown that these "guesstimates" can be wildly inaccurate, and that inaccuracy can adversely affect an older patient's quality of life and care. Doctors who are too optimistic may prescribe unnecessary and painful procedures and treatments; those who are too pessimistic may neglect to offer adequate care.
Most current clinical guidelines sidestep considerations about prognosis by relying on simple age-based cutoffs. The United States Preventive Services Task Force, for example, uses 75 as the age to stop routine colon cancer screening. "But age is an incredibly blunt tool," Dr. Widera noted. "We all know of 65-year-olds who are much sicker than some 95-year-olds."
While the authors of the study have created a Web site, www.eprognosis.org, to help physicians and patients access available prognostic tools, they are quick to acknowledge that this interactive tool is only a small part of what doctors and patients need. More work and resources must be devoted to creating accurate assessment tools, testing the reliability of those that exist and teaching doctors once again the art and science of determining, and talking about, prognoses.
"We actually have a moral responsibility to our patients to help provide them with the best prognostic information," said Dr. Alexander K. Smith, another of the study authors. "But somehow, we have lost sight of that responsibility as a profession."

        
When Less Treatment Is More
        
Learning From Other Patients
        
Getting Doctors to Think About Costs
        
When Doctors Don't Tell the Truth
        
What Doctors Are Telling Us Even When They're Not Talking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); ENDOSCOPY (78%); CANCER (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (76%); DIABETES (73%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (72%); HYPERTENSION (72%); TEXTBOOKS (66%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (65%); DEATHS (64%); COLORECTAL CANCER (64%); LIBRARIES (60%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (60%) death; Doctor and Patient; Pauline Chen; Doctors; Longevity; Medicine and Health

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012



833 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2348 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Eastman Kodak Files for Bankruptcy | Eastman Kodak said early Thursday that it had filed for bankruptcy protection, as the 131-year-old film pioneer struggled to adapt to an increasingly digital world.
As part of its filing, made in the federal bankruptcy court in the Southern District of New York, Kodak will seek to continue selling a portfolio of 1,100 digital imaging patents to raise cash for its operations.
The company plans to continue operating normally as it reorganizes under Chapter 11 protection.
DealBook  | 
Bank of America Swings to a Profit | The bank earned $2 billion, or 15 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $1.2 billion in the same period a year ago.
The earnings met the consensus estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. The gain, however, included a $2.9 billion profit on the sale of a stake in China Construction Bank as well as a $1.2 billion gain from swapping preferred stock for common shares. Overall quarterly revenue rose 11 percent to $25.1 billion.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Rubenstein Donates to Washington Monument | David M. Rubenstein, the Carlyle Group co-founder, will donate $7.5 million to help repair the Washington Monument, which was shut after earthquake damage, The Washington Post reports.
WASHINGTON POST
For Callan, Life After Lehman Includes a New Husband | Erin Callan, the former chief financial officer of Lehman Brothers who all but disappeared from Wall Street after the firm's collapse, was married late last year.
DealBook 
Stock Exchange Issues Prohibition on Gambling | NYSE Regulation, which oversees trading on the New York Stock Exchange, warned members that "book making, numbers games, or other organized for-profit betting activity relating to sporting activities, other outside events or games of chance" is prohibited.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Mormon Church's Bain Winnings | Mitt Romney donated stock holdings he obtained through Bain Capital to the Mormon church, making him eligible for large tax deductions, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Securities Lawsuits Hold Steady but Below Average | The number of investor lawsuits alleging fraud at corporations remained mostly flat last year, a new study finds. But if it were not for suits tied to mergers and I.P.O.'s of Chinese companies, litigation would be below historical norms.
DealBook 
Icahn Raises Bet on WebMD | Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, disclosed on Wednesday that he has raised his stake in WebMD to 11.64 percent from 9.99 percent and called on the online health company to buy back up to $1 billion of its shares.
DealBook 
Yahoo Sales Executive Said to Depart | Seth Dallaire, who ran Yahoo's midmarket advertising accounts unit, is headed to Amazon, to become vice president of North America sales, AllThingsD reports, citing unnamed people.
ALLTHINGSD
Rio Tinto Free to Take Over Mongolia Project | Rio Tinto, the British-Australian mining giant, can now take over the Oyu Tolgoi mining project in Mongolia, after Ivanhoe Mines, which owns the project, said it would abandon a "poison pill" shareholder rights plan, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Chinese Car Maker Said to Consider New Bid for Saab | Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile could make another offer for Saab, the failed Swedish car maker, after General Motors earlier refused to allow Youngman to make a similar move, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the situation.
REUTERS
NYSE Deal Gets S.E.C. Approval | The Securities and Exchange Commission approved the proposed merger between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, even as European authorities are expected to block it, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Britain Urges Independence in Exchange Ruling | A British regulator said European Union officials should not be swayed by "vested interests" when ruling on the proposed merger between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Morgan Stanley Reports a Loss as Settlement Weighs on Results | The one main bright spot in the fourth quarter was the Wall Street firm's global wealth management division.
DealBook 
BankUnited Calls Off Sales Process | BankUnited, the private-equity-owned bank that went public last year, has ended an effort to sell itself after failing to fetch attractive-enough offers from potential suitors.
DealBook 
Swiss Re Appoints New Chief Executive | The world's second-largest reinsurer said on Thursday that Michel M. Lies would take over as the company's chief executive on Feb. 1.
DealBook 
Banks in Europe Seen as Stronger Than Governments | It costs more than a full percentage point less to insure the debt of European banks using credit-default swaps than it does to insure the debt of governments, the biggest difference since July, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Sachs Spent $6 Billion to Buy Back Stock | The firm spent more to repurchase shares in 2011 than it earned in the year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Expectations Lower for Goldman Sachs | That investors cheered a 58 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit shows how much has changed in the years since the crisis, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Dimon and Blankfein Predict Rebound | As trading and investment banking revenue likely fell in the fourth quarter, Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, and Lloyd C. Blankfein, head of Goldman Sachs, maintained that the slump was cyclical, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
S.&P. President Defends Sovereign Downgrades | Douglas Peterson, the new president of Standard & Poor's, said the firm's group that handles sovereign debt is a "world-class team," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fink as Vocal Shareholder | Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, which holds at least 5 percent of the shares of 2,400 companies, said in a letter to companies it holds that his firm would seek to "engage in dialogue" with management, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan Names Asian Equity Head | The firm appointed Jeff Zajkowski, who joined the company in New York in 2002, the new head of equity capital markets for Asia-Pacific, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bank of New York Mellon Earnings Fall 26 Percent | The bank's net income of $505 million, or 42 cents a share, missed expectations of 52 cents a share, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
The United States Economy Through a Private Equity Lens | As Mitt Romney defends his tenure at Bain Capital on the presidential campaign trail, some on Wall Street wonder how running a private equity firm compares to running the country, writes Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica in his column, The Trade.
DealBook 
Carlyle Prepares an Unfriendly I.P.O. for Shareholders | Not only would soon-to-be public shareholders have no power over the Carlyle Group, the firm is also seeking to force all shareholder legal claims into arbitration, Steven M. Davidoff writes in his Deal Professor column.
DealBook 
Apollo Said to Be in $7 Billion Bid for Oil Assets | Apollo Global Management and Riverstone Holdings, two private equity firms, are together bidding around $7 billion for the exploration and production assets of the El Paso Corporation, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
German Central Bank to Sell Lehman Loans | The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, is near a sale of almost $2.6 billion of property loans once owned by Lehman Brothers, with Lone Star, the private equity firm, having agreed to buy much of the portfolio, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Blackstone Considers More China Deals | The Blackstone Group said it is pursuing more property investments in China, after one of its funds profited on a sale of a real estate stake, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Funds May Sue Over Greek Bonds | As Greece considers passing legislation to force private bondholders to accept losses, hedge funds could mount a legal challenge by claiming a violation of their property rights, which in Europe are human rights, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Einhorn Exits First Solar Bet | David Einhorn, the president of Greenlight Capital, closed his bet against First Solar, which he said was "one of the most profitable shorts in the history" of the firm, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Danish Mortgages Validate Soros's View | Denmark's Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index rose to a record this month, after George Soros asserted that the country's mortgage system is especially resilient in times of crisis, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Tell Investments Shutters Funds | The hedge fund firm is closing its two principal funds, the William and the Tell, after three years of disappointing performance, and is returning about $767 million to investors, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Glencore Executive Said to Depart | Steven Blumgart, the co-head of Glencore's aluminum division, is leaving the commodities trading firm this year, in the first significant departure since the company went public in May, The Financial Times reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Russian Mining Company Said to Plan I.P.O. | Yuzhuralzoloto, a Russian gold mining concern, plans to float 25 percent of its shares in London as early as the spring, after abandoning plans to raise about $150 million in 2008, a Russian newspaper reported, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
Chinese Car Rental Company Files for I.P.O. | China Auto Rental became the first Chinese company to file for a United States listing under new rules barring companies from keeping registration documents private, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Hong Kong Exchange Chief Predicts Access for Chinese | Charles Li, the chief executive of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, said mainland Chinese investors will one day be able to partake in yuan-denominated I.P.O.'s in Hong Kong, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Mutual Funds Invest in Brazilian Online Deals Company | Peixe Urbano, Brazil's first online daily deal company, has closed a round of financing with mutual funds and accounts managed by Morgan Stanley Investment Management and T. Rowe Price Associates. General Atlantic and Tiger Global Management also participated.
DealBook 
Start-Ups Get Political | As Web sites protested legislation to curb Internet piracy, many start-ups joined the effort, with HelloFax, for instance, offering a tool to let people send their elected officials faxes urging them to oppose the bills, The New York Times reports. 
NEW YORK TIMES
Cloud Services Company Raises $20 Million | Symplified, which offers businesses tools for managing cloud applications, raised the funds in a round led by Ignition Partners, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
South African Firm Starts American Fund | The Quantum Capital Fund, of South Africa, has started a $200 million fund in the United States, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
U.S. Charges 7 With Insider Trading of Dell Stock | Federal prosecutors depicted a "circle of friends," including Anthony Chiasson of Level Global, who together earned about $62 million in illegal gains in Dell stock.
DealBook 
Bair Urges Big Bank Breakup | Sheila Bair, formerly the chair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, writes in a column in Fortune that the biggest banks might be worth more if they were broken apart.
FORTUNE
Florida Banker Charged With Misleading Investors | The Securities and Exchange Commission charged Alan B. Levan, chairman and chief executive of BankAtlantic Bancorp, with making misleading statements in order to hide losses, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Regulators Concerned About How to Apply Volcker Rule | Federal regulators responsible for writing the Volcker Rule limiting proprietary trading told Congress that the proposal was difficult to interpret and could crimp the bottom line at Wall Street banks.
DealBook 
New Laws Possible in Wake of MF Global's Demise | The Senate's agriculture committee is exploring regulatory changes following pleas from farmers, cattle ranchers and other futures industry customers who seek stronger protections for their money.
DealBook 
JPMorgan Said to Be at Center of MF Global's Collapse | JPMorgan Chase, one of MF Global's primary bankers, was able to slow the delivery of funds to the brokerage in its final days, worsening its distress, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the situation.
REUTERS
Donovan Says Mortgage Settlement Is Near | Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, said officials are "very close" to a settlement with banks that could allow about one million homeowners to reduce their mortgage debt, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
China Said to Consider Relaxing Rules | The Chinese government plans to let larger banks lend more in the first quarter, and is considering a plan to relax capital requirements, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Trial Set for Texas Financier | A federal judge ruled that R. Allen Stanford, accused of defrauding thousands of investors in a $7 billion Ponzi scheme, will finally go on trial next week, nearly three years after his arrest, reported Clifford Krauss of The New York Times.
DealBook 
TD Bank Ordered to Pay $67 Million in Fraud Case | The bank was ordered by a federal jury to pay investors the sum, for its role in a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme, The Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Citigroup Unit Fined $725,000 Over Disclosure | The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority imposed the penalty on Citigroup Global Markets for failing to disclose information including investment banking relationships and stock ownership, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MERGERS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMMON STOCK (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); PREFERRED STOCK (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); RELIGION (67%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (62%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 0939 (HKSE) (56%); WPO (NYSE) (55%); CG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (77%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



834 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Should We Trust Paid Experts on the Volcker Rule?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: A report commissioned by a lobbying group for the securities industry should not be taken as objective analysis of the impact of a rule to restrict risky trading activities by large banks, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday morning, two subcommittees of the House Financial Services Committee held a joint hearing on the Volcker Rule, which is named for the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul Volcker, and is aimed at restricting certain kinds of "proprietary trading" activities by big banks. Its goal is to make it harder for these institutions to blow themselves up and inflict another deep recession on the rest of us. 
The Volcker Rule was passed as part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation (it is Section 619), and regulators are currently requesting comments on their proposed draft rules to carry it out. 
Part of the current issue is contentions by some members of the financial services industry that the Volcker Rule will restrict liquidity in markets, pushing up interest rates on corporate debt in particular and slowing economic growth.
This assertion rests in part on a report produced by Oliver Wyman, a financial consulting company. Oliver Wyman has a strong technical reputation and is definitely capable of producing high-quality analysis, but its work on this issue is not convincing, for three reasons. (The points below are adapted from my written testimony and verbal exchanges at the hearing.)

The report, "The Volcker Rule: Implications for the U.S. Corporate Bond Market," was commissioned by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, or Sifma, and is available on the Sifma Web page that contains its comment letters to regulators. 
On Page 36 of the report, the disclaimer begins, "This report sets forth the information required by the terms of Oliver Wyman's engagement by Sifma and is prepared in the form expressly required thereby." 
This does not mean - and I am not implying - that Oliver Wyman was instructed to find a particular kind of result. But the incentives of Sifma and its most prominent members are worth further consideration in this context.
The current chair of Sifma is Jerry del Missier, a top executive at Barclays Capital. The board includes executives from Morgan Stanley, Societe Generale, UBS, BNP Paribas, HSBC, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Royal Bank of Scotland, JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse, Royal Bank of Canada and Merrill Lynch. 
All of these companies would be affected by the Volcker Rule, in the sense that they would have to give up some of their "proprietary trading" activities and perhaps be subject to other restrictions - as is noted by the Oliver Wyman report, which on Page 11 lists "the institutions that will be most affected by the Volcker Rule"; more than half of these institutions are on the Sifma board.
Such very large banks are perceived as too big to fail because their failure would be likely to cause huge damage to the rest of the financial system. As a result, the downside risks created by these institutions are borne, in part, by the government and the Federal Reserve - as a way to protect the rest of the economy. 
In effect, these banks benefit from unfair, nontransparent and dangerous government subsidies that encourage reckless gambling - most notably in the form of "proprietary trading" (jargon for placing bets on which way markets will move). 
When things go well, the benefits of these arrangements are garnered by the executives who run these companies (and perhaps shareholders). When things go badly, the downside costs are pushed in various ways onto the taxpayers and all citizens. 
The Volcker Rule is intended to limit the implicit subsidies received by large banks that operate proprietary trading at any significant scale; this is clear from the repeated public statements of Mr. Volcker (who had the original idea) and Senators Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, and Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, who turned it into legislation as an amendment to Dodd-Frank. 
We should therefore expect executives from big banks to oppose removal of these subsidies. To the extent that such subsidies may be expected to benefit shareholders, it can be argued that these executives have a fiduciary responsibility to do all they can to ensure that the effectiveness of the Volcker Rule be undermined.
Sifma itself has a clear mission: "On behalf of our members, Sifma is engaged in conversations throughout the country and across international borders with legislators, regulators, media and industry participants." 
There is nothing in its public materials to suggest the research it sponsors is intended to uncover true social costs and benefits; rather their goal is to advance the interests of their members. This is a lobbying group, after all.
Sifma asserts that it represents the entire securities industry, but more than one-third of its board is drawn from very large banks that would find their implicit subsidies cut and constrained by an effective Volcker Rule. Given this context, it is not clear why the Olivier Wyman study would be regarded as anything other than - or more convincing than - a relatively sophisticated form of special interest lobbying.
There is also a serious methodological issue. The study draws heavily on a paper by Jens Dick-Nielson, Peter Feldhutter and David Lando that looks at the liquidity premiums for corporate debt in recent years and contains plausible results. As Professor Feldhutter writes on his Web site: "Illiquidity premia in U.S. corporate bonds were large during the subprime crisis. Bonds become less liquid when financial distress hits a lead underwriter." (Disclosure: Until recently I was on the editorial board of the Journal of Financial Economics, where the paper appeared, but I was not involved in the publication of this article.)
The Olivier Wyman study, however, goes far beyond those academic authors when it asserts that the Volcker Rule will make corporate bonds less actively traded - less liquid - and therefore increase interest rates on such securities. In particular, the Oliver Wyman approach appears to assume the answer - which is not an appealing way to conduct research.
Specifically, the study assumes that every dollar disallowed in pure proprietary trading by banks will necessarily disappear from the market. But if money can still be made (without subsidies), the same trading should continue in another form. For example, the bank could spin off the trading activity and associated capital at a fair market price. 
Alternatively, the relevant trader - with valuable skills and experience - could raise outside capital and continue doing an equivalent version of his or her job. These traders would, of course, bear more of their own downside risks. 
If it turns out that the previous form or extent of trading existed only because of the implicit government subsidies, then we should not mourn its end.
The Oliver Wyman study further assumes that the sensitivity of bond spreads to liquidity will be as it was in the depth of the financial crisis, 2007-9. This is ironic, given that the financial crisis severely disrupted liquidity and credit availability more generally - in fact this is a major implication of the Dick-Nelson, Feldhutter and Lando paper. 
If Oliver Wyman had used instead the pre-crisis period estimates from the authors, covering the period 2004-7, even giving their own methods the implied effects would be one-fifth to one-twentieth of the size (this adjustment is based on my discussions with Professor Feldhutter).
The Oliver Wyman study also makes no attempt to estimate the benefits of the Volcker Rule, for example in terms of lower probability for a major financial collapse.
The biggest disaster for the corporate bond market in recent years was a direct result of excessive risk-taking by big financial players. The Volcker Rule is a step in the direction of making it harder to repeat that awful experience.
Powerful players in the financial sector are entitled to make their arguments against the Volcker Rule. But for-hire "research" that shows the rule will hurt the broader economy should not be regarded as convincing evidence.

        
Where Is the Volcker Rule?
        
Could Huntsman and the Democrats Ally on Bank Reform?
        
No One Is Above the Law
        
Measuring Financial Contagion
        
Why Not Break Up Citigroup?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (53%) banking regulation; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; financial crisis; Great Recession; recession; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Volcker, Paul A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn; Today's Economist

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



835 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Romney's New Target: Gingrich's Job Creation Claims

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: In ridiculing Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney repeats the bogus claim that the government doesn't create jobs. 

 BODY:
IRMO, S.C. - Mitt Romney's stump speeches at rallies like the one here on Wednesday night are largely patriotic goo, but in the last day or two he's also thrown in a newly sharpened jab at Newt Gingrich.
It's a reaction to Mr. Gingrich's preposterous claim in Monday night's debate that he and Ronald Reagan created 16 million jobs, and that he and Bill Clinton later created another 11 million.
"Sometimes you've got to smile," Mr. Romney said here. "I watched Speaker Gingrich talk about all those jobs he created when he was a new congressman working with Ronald Reagan. He'd been in office as a congressman two years at that point. Him taking credit for the jobs created in America during the Reagan years is a bit like Al Gore saying he invented the Internet."
Yes, sometimes you do have to smile, especially when Mitt Romney decides it's time to chide someone else for saying something ridiculous. He's wrong, of course, about Mr. Gore making that claim, but he's right, of course, in pointing out that Mr. Gingrich's wild claims of responsibility for prosperity are a joke. Mr. Gingrich had no leadership role during the Reagan years, and had nothing to do with the tech boom that produced many of those jobs under Mr. Clinton.

But Mr. Romney always seems to hit a wrong note just when he is on the verge of saying something reasonable. He could have just chided Mr. Gingrich for serial exaggeration, but instead spent the day explaining that the former speaker was obviously wrong because "government doesn't create jobs - it's the private sector that creates jobs."
Government can't create jobs, but President Obama should be tossed from the White House because he hasn't created enough jobs? Following this thread all the way along undermines Mr. Romney's most fundamental claim to the presidency -- that his business experience equips him to create jobs and right the economy. Why bother, if there's nothing government can do?
There are, in fact, many ways for government to produce job growth; it's just that Mr. Romney doesn't want to do any of them. Economists do, and have spent the last three years calling on Washington to spend more money on public works, and to stimulate consumer demand by putting more money in lower- and middle-income people's pockets (and NOT the rich, they have plenty and they don't spend a small tax break). A payroll tax cut and extended unemployment insurance are very effective ways to do so.
The president's stimulus policies have led the private sector to create 2.2 million jobs since they went into effect, but no Republican will acknowledge that, preferring to count the jobs lost in the early weeks of the Obama administration to make it look like a net loss.
Mr. Romney has either opposed or belittled all those proposals when Mr. Obama suggested them, and his only prescription is one that has failed to create jobs time and again when it was tried: cutting regulations, spending, and taxes for the rich.

        
The South Carolina Debate and G.O.P. Golden Oldies
        
Newt Gingrich Confronts His Super PAC
        
The Faux Insurgent Versus the Faux Conservative
        
This Is Citizens United
        
Nobody Likes to Talk About It, but It's There

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); JOB CREATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Jobs; Mitt Romney; Newt Gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); RONALD REAGAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); AL GORE (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



836 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Perry Ends Bid for Presidency

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY and MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Rick Perry of Texas ended his bid for the Republican presidential nomination and endorsed Newt Gingrich. 

 BODY:
11:45 a.m. | Updated NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. - Gov. Rick Perry of Texas dropped out of the Republican presidential race here on Thursday and announced his endorsement for the candidacy of Newt Gingrich, a man he called a "conservative visionary." 
"I've never believed that the cause of conservatism is embodied by one individual," Mr. Perry said at a news conference here. "Our party and our conservative philosophy transcends any one individual."
Mr. Perry, who opened his bid for the Republican presidential nomination five months ago here in South Carolina, conceded that "there is no viable path forward for me." He urged Republicans to support Mr. Gingrich, who he conceded was not a perfect candidate, but was the best conservative alternative in the race.
"Newt is not perfect, but who among us is," Mr. Perry said. "The fact is, there is forgiveness for those who seek God. And I believe in the power of redemption, for it is a central tenet of my Christian faith."
 Mr. Perry reached the decision on Wednesday night, his aides said, and informed Mr. Gingrich of his plans to leave the race. He was planning to fly home to Texas shortly after his announcement.
"I have no question that Newt Gingrich has the heart of a conservative reformer," Mr. Perry said, adding that the Republican Party cannot squander its opportunity to put forward a "conservative leader who can bring about real change."
In a brief announcement here, as Mr. Perry was surrounded by his wife and family, he did not acknowledge Mitt Romney by name. But his praise of Mr. Gingrich, along with his repeated calls for Republicans to elect a true conservative, seemed to be a direct shot at Mr. Romney.
It remains an open question what effect his endorsement of Mr. Gingrich will have on the South Carolina primary on Saturday. But with only four Republican candidates remaining in the race, conservatives are urging voters to coalesce around one alternative to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Perry had no immediate plans to campaign alongside Mr. Gingrich over the next two days, aides said. He did not take questions during his brief appearance here in North Charleston and left the stage after kissing his wife, Anita, and thanking his family.
Mr. Perry's decision comes as Mr. Gingrich has picked up support in South Carolina during the past week of campaigning. A CNN/Time survey released Wednesday showed that Mr. Romney's lead over Mr. Gingrich in South Carolina has been cut in half over the past two weeks. Mr. Gingrich has urged his other rivals to drop out so that conservative voters can coalesce around him as the alternative to Mr. Romney.
Rick Santorum, who had 16 percent support in the CNN/Time survey, on Wednesday dismissed that suggestion out of hand. Mr. Santorum is scheduled to hold two events Thursday before participating in a debate sponsored by CNN.
The decision by Mr. Perry, which was first reported by CNN, narrows the Republican field to four candidates. A new NBC News/Marist poll of likely Republican voters in South Carolina shows that among Mr. Perry's supporters, 34 percent said Mr. Gingrich was their second choice, 20 percent said Ron Paul, 19 percent said Mr. Santorum, and 18 percent said Mr. Romney. But it is important to remember, that only 4 percent of all South Carolina likely voters said they were supporting Rick Perry to begin with.
In a statement, Mr. Romney praised Mr. Perry, who had recently called Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, "a vulture capitalist."
"Rick Perry ran a campaign based upon love of country and conservative principles," Mr. Romney said in a statement. "He has earned a place of prominence as a leader in our party, and I salute him for his commitment to making President Obama a one-term president and finally getting our nation's economy back on the right track. The nation owes Governor Perry a debt of gratitude for his years of service to his state and country. I wish Anita and him well."
It was the second time that Mr. Perry had signaled that he would leave the race. After a poor showing in the Iowa caucuses two weeks ago, Mr. Perry said that he was returning to Texas to reassess his campaign, but he decided to press ahead in South Carolina.
Mr. Perry was in the single digits in recent polls here, but his withdrawal from the race could affect the outcome of the primary by giving conservative voters one less alternative. He had been appealing heavily to South Carolina's evangelical voters.
In an interview with reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Perry said that he would leave the decision over whether he would remain in the race to the voters of South Carolina. But in the end, a supporter said, he wanted to avoid a last-place finish in South Carolina.
Mr. Perry had entered the race on Aug. 13 amid soaring expectations that his longtime experience as a conservative Southern governor might sweep him to the nomination.
Speaking to a group of conservatives in South Carolina even as Representative Michele Bachmann was winning the Iowa straw poll, he declared his bid for the presidency by vowing to bring jobs and a conservative outlook back to the country.
"It's time to get America working again," he said at the time. "America is not broken, Washington is broken".
After announcing in South Carolina that he was running for president, Mr. Perry jumped to the top of the polls, stepping on Mrs. Bachmann's victory and presenting himself as the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney.
But after his successful entrance into the race, Mr. Perry quickly stumbled, particularly during debates.
In early faceoffs, Mr. Perry struggled to defend his past statements about Social Security, which he had called a "Ponzi scheme." And he stumbled in answers about his support in Texas for a program that benefits illegal immigrants who want to attend the state's colleges.
Mrs. Bachmann and his other rivals also challenged him on his decision to require young girls to be vaccinated against HPV, a sexually transmitted disease.
But the worst moment in his campaign came in a later debate, when he struggled to remember the names of three federal agencies that he would eliminate if he were elected president. As he began to explain, he could think of only two.
"Commerce, Education," Mr. Perry said before pausing for an uncomfortable moment as he looked from side to side, counting on his fingers and flipping through his notes. As his rivals volunteered suggestions, a moderator asked Mr. Perry if he could name the third agency.
"The third one, I can't," he finally said, a sad look on his face, after 53 seconds had gone by. "Sorry. Oops."
Mr. Perry's early lead and the high expectations helped him raise more than $17 million in the first two months of the race. But his stumbles led to steadily declining poll numbers nationally and in the early voting states.
His disappointing fifth place finish in the Iowa caucuses initially led him to announce that he was suspending his campaign and heading back to Texas to "reassess" his prospects.
But Mr. Perry tweeted a picture of himself jogging the next morning, announcing that he would skip New Hampshire's primary and head directly to South Carolina, where he hoped to do better with the state's religious, conservative voters.
But polls in the state showed Mr. Perry lagging far behind his rivals in the race. A CNN/Time poll released on Wednesday showed him barely registering with just 6 percent support.

        
In Florida, Obama Announces New Tourism Policies
        
Time Running Out for Romney's Rivals
        
Romney Treads Familiar Path Toward Nomination
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
Just Where Are Those Voters?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); RELIGION (67%) 2012; Gov. Rick Perry; Gingrich, Newt; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Endorsements; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Iowa; South Carolina; Texas; In South Carolina

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: RICK PERRY (95%); NEWT GINGRICH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%) Gingrich, Newt; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (88%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa; South Carolina; Texas

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



837 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The New York Post: So much for that "healthier eating" thing: The night before Paula Deen announced she has diabetes, Page Six reports, she finished off a meal at Ristorante Asellina with the tiramisu. -- Patrick Farrell
Food Politics: You can't eat your way to Type 2 diabetes? Not only does Marion Nestle beg to differ, but she takes Paula Deen to task, and the American Diabetes Association, too. -- Eric Asimov 
Tasting Table: Speaking of Ms. Deen, here's what happens when you fuse sweet tea with chess pie ... 
Cooking Light: ... Meanwhile, this magazine's editor rises to the controversial butter queen's defense. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Los Angeles Times: Cognac is not just a fine digestif but a globally robust commodity. -- Julia Moskin
: A diner's guide to "Goodfellas,'' noting where all those restaurants were. -- Nick Fox
Bloomberg Businessweek: Many waiter-training schools bit the dust in the recession, yet national restaurant sales and employment have rebounded with the economy, and restaurateurs now need more skilled servers. One waiter trainer, Eric Weiss, has found a market in three-to-five-day workshops conducted in groups of 50 for hotels, resorts and other operators. -- Glenn Collins 
The Jewish Daily Forward: Can bagels save Detroit? -- Jeff Gordinier
The New York Times: Tea, sticky toffee pudding, steak-and-Guinness pie: If the menus for "Downton Abbey" viewing parties are less appetizing than the show, just lie back and think of England. -- Patrick Farrell
: Yeah, we've all heard it a million times. You go into the Italian joint, order a bowl of pasta and they start playing Sinatra in the background. Well, Alfonso Cevola says, "Nuts to that.'' --Eric Asimov
Harvard Business Review: One way that Kevin Ryan, chief executive of the 850-employee Gilt Groupe, manages Gilt Taste (artisanal food and wines) and the company's other brand extensions: He thinks about talent "most of the time" and values recognizing "when individuals aren't working out, and letting them go." -- Glenn Collins 
: Should you care to support your local (or not so local) food businesses, the Good Food awards provide a guide to some of the tastiest. -- Julia Moskin
The Wall Street Journal: You know a New York neighborhood has truly arrived when the noise complaints skyrocket. Hell's Kitchen, which began as a rough-and-tumble precinct worthy of its name, has seriously gentrified in the last few years, attracting families and professionals. Now residents are complaining that the bars and clubs are a nuisance. -- Patrick Farrell
The Wall Street Journal: Brokers in Hong Kong protest a shortening of their lunch break."Lunch is a habit of Chinese people," a leader
says. -- Nick Fox
Epicurious: "Sell-by" dates be damned: When it comes to eggs, older is sometimes better. -- Patrick Farrell
Vimeo: Thursday video treat (with subtitles): A few years back, the French authorities accused the noted Maconnais negociant Maison Verget, the proprietor Jean-Marie Guffens and his staff of fraudulently mixing wines. And so began, according to Guffens, a Kafkaesque ordeal of harassment and persecution. -- Eric Asimov
Nashville Review: Listen to a reading of poet Edward Hirsch's lovely reverie about cotton candy. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Paris Review: Cooking from a 1917 cookbook: escalloped oysters, home-ground meat and breadcrumbs, "white sauce" on just about everything -- and the comfort that comes with vintage food. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIABETES (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BONDS (85%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RESORTS (68%); NOISE POLLUTION (68%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BRANDING (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%); NESTLE SA (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); RED HAT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (57%); RHT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: PAULA DEEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



838 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: In Florida, Obama Announces New Tourism Policies

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: At the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, President Obama announced several initiatives intended to encourage more foreign tourists to visit the United States. 

 BODY:
1:00 p.m. | Updated Brazilians and Chinese who want to visit the United States will have a much easier time under an executive order issued by President Obama on Thursday, and that's fuel for the economy of Florida, where he traveled to get as much political mileage as possible from the change.
The president visited Walt Disney World in Orlando, one of the tourism centers of gravity in the electoral battleground state, to announce several initiatives intended to encourage more foreign tourists to visit the United States.
"The more folks who visit America, the more Americans we get back to work," he said. "It's that simple."
More than half a million Brazilians visit Florida each year, and the way the balance of tourism trade is calculated, that business is the equivalent of American exports, which the administration has been promising to increase.
"Tourism is the number one service that we export," he said. He promised "a new national tourism strategy focused on creating jobs."
His executive actions are part of Mr. Obama's "we can't wait" campaign for job creation initiatives that do not need approval from Congress.
The administration will deploy 100 more consuls to Brazil and China, both of which have emerged as major economic powers, to reduce visa-processing times that currently can take weeks, an administration official said.
Other actions would expand an existing program to allow "low-risk" foreign visitors to be admitted more quickly through airport security checkpoints and add Taiwan to a list of countries whose citizens do not need visas.
Four American airports would be added to the 20 that have "Global Entry" kiosks to process such visitors, in Minneapolis, Charlotte, Denver and Phoenix - all cities in battleground states.
Travel industry groups welcomed the moves though the local newspaper, the Orlando Sentinel, described the initiatives as "more bureaucratic than bullish," given the limits of what a president can do without legislation approved by Congress.

        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments
        
Republican Ads Turn More Aggressive
        
G.O.P. Front-Runners Offer Contrast in Styles
        
Debt Talk Over, Republicans Head to Iowa
        
Pawlenty Lowers Expectations, So He Can Beat Them

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESORTS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); AVIATION SECURITY (69%); LEGISLATION (66%); AIRPORTS (64%) 2012; barack obama; Florida; tourism; Elections; The White House

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (94%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



839 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Daniels, Cain Will Offer State of the Union Rebuttals

BYLINE: JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Indiana's governor is chosen by Republican leaders of Congress to offer their party's response to the State of the Union Message next week. And Herman Cain will speak for the Tea Party. 

 BODY:
5:19 p.m. | Updated Article Two, Section 3 of the Constitution, establishing that the president "shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union," makes no mention of equal time for a rebuttal from his opposition.
In the last half century, though, the rebuttal has established its own role as if under common law, sometimes used by the opposition to showcase a rising star, sometimes to sound a thematic epilogue, and sometimes simply because political speech abhors a vacuum.
Next week, the Republican response will come from Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, the party's leaders in the House and Senate have decreed.
They cited Mr. Daniels's record as a tax-cutting, budget-balancing, pro-business governor. But his tenure has also included epic, divisive struggles with Democrats in his legislature; and in a little more than two years as George W. Bush's budget director, the federal budget shifted from a projected surplus into a deep deficit as the economy swooned and Congress turned down his proposals for spending cuts to offset tax cuts.
Now in his eighth and final year in office, he was vaunted as a possible presidential candidate but decided not to run.
There have been few memorable moments in State of the Union rebuttals, but some have been quirky enough to have raised eyebrows fleetingly. (As did Michelle Bachmann's rebuttal for the Tea Party last year, if only because she seemed not to be looking directly into the camera. This year, the political action committee Tea Party Express said that while it was "enthusiastic" to hear that Mr. Daniels would be speaking, it was "excited" to offer Herman Cain with yet another response on behalf of its adherents.)
As for Mr. Daniels, he too can be unpredictable. He is known as one of those politicians who writes his own speeches, if he writes them down at all.

        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Daniels Decides Against Republican Presidential Bid
        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
Daniels Happy With Action on Indiana Schools
        
Lawsuit in Indiana Could Follow Daniels on Trail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Mitch Daniels; state of the union; Congress

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (88%); MITCH DANIELS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



840 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Busy Day Both Tests and Rewards Gingrich

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich gets some good news from Rick Perry's withdrawal, but bad news from his ex-wife. 

 BODY:
A frenetic swirl of developments in the Republican presidential campaign over the last 24 hours is testing whether Newt Gingrich can manage tricky political crosscurrents as he seeks to emerge as the undisputed alternative to Mitt Romney's claim on the nomination.
The decision by Gov. Rick Perry of Texas to abandon his campaign and heartily endorse Mr. Gingrich just two days ahead of voting in the South Carolina primary comes as new polling suggests that support for Mr. Gingrich is surging in the southern state.
Mr. Romney's lead over Mr. Gingrich in South Carolina has been cut in half in the last two weeks, recent polls show. And the perception of inevitability behind Mr. Romney's march toward victory was further shaken on Thursday morning by official results in Iowa, which erased his claim to victory in that state's Republican caucuses.
The timing couldn't be worse for Mr. Romney -- or better for Mr. Gingrich. The two men will debate again tonight, joined by Rick Santorum and Representative Ron Paul, for yet another round in what has easily become Mr. Gingrich's most effective forum.
In the face of millions of dollars in attacks from rivals and "Super PACs," Mr. Gingrich has repeatedly used the many nationally-televised debates to rekindle the belief in voters that he might be the best person to confront President Obama in similar arenas this fall.
But ahead of tonight's debate, Mr. Gingrich faced new and potentially damaging allegations from his second wife, who says in an interview with ABC News that Mr. Gingrich proposed an "open marriage" so that he could continue to conduct an affair with the woman who is now his wife, Callista Bisek.
That interview, which ABC plans to air tonight after releasing portions today, will add to the baggage that Mr. Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, carries as he engages with Mr. Romney. 
Rivals have accused Mr. Gingrich of ethical violations while in office, earning more than $1 million representing the mortgage giant Freddie Mac, and opposing plans by congressional Republicans to cut spending and reform Social Security. 
Jim Dyke, a veteran Republican consultant based in South Carolina, said Mr. Perry's decision to drop out will "feed a perception of momentum" on the part of Mr. Gingrich. But he said the questions about his record and his statements remain a serious challenge.
"Gingrich will have to answer questions sooner or later and there is still a lot to answer," Mr. Dyke said.
Steve Schmidt, who helped run John McCain's presidential campaign in 2008, said Mr. Gingrich has benefited from its "final spasm of anti-Romney opposition" in the Republican party, especially in South Carolina.
"There's a lot of empirical evidence to suggest that Romney is losing altitude and that Gingrich is closing the race," Mr. Schmidt said.
He said Mr. Gingrich had demonstrated resilience in his ability to recover from setbacks during the campaign. But Mr. Schmidt questioned whether Mr. Gingrich has demonstrated any other qualities to prove he could be an effective challenger to Mr. Obama as the party's nominee.
"The Gingrich candidacy could be a reality show in its own right, infused with melodrama and erratic swings," Mr Schmidt said. "When you consider the prospects of a Gingrich nomination, the likelihood of an Obama re-election goes up dramatically."
That argument is central to the case that Mr. Santorum is making as he seeks to capitalize on the odd turnabout giving him the most votes in Iowa and the endorsement he received last weekend by a group of evangelical leaders.
Following the announcement of the updated results in Iowa Thursday morning, Mr. Santorum's campaign spokesman sought to claim the mantle of the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
"The narrative that Governor Romney and the media have been touting of 'inevitability' has been destroyed," Hogan Gidley, Mr. Santorum's communications director, said in a statement. "There is a consistent conservative alternative" adding, "that candidate is Rick Santorum."
Representative Ron Paul is also making that case, arguing in speeches and in advertising that all three of his rivals are not true conservatives and have political baggage that will make it impossible for them to change the culture in Washington.
But polls suggest that it is Mr. Gingrich -- and not Mr. Santorum -- who is making headway in the effort to convince voters to chose someone other than Mr. Romney.
An NBC/Marist poll released Thursday morning shows Mr. Romney with a 10-point lead over Mr. Gingrich, 34 percent to 24 percent. But the survey, which was taken over two days early this week, shows a closer race among interviews done after Monday evening's debate. The poll was taken before Mr. Romney said he paid an effective tax rate of about 15 percent, a disclosure that drew wide criticism.
An adviser to the Romney campaign said its own internal polls show a very close race as voting nears.
But the polls are not all good news for Mr. Gingrich. The CNN/Time survey and the NBC/Marist poll both show that Mr. Gingrich does significantly worse than Mr. Romney among women in South Carolina, a key group that could help determine the outcome of the race on Saturday.
That gap in support among women could be exacerbated by the ABC interview, which is scheduled to be broadcast Thursday night after the debate. Mr. Gingrich has been married three times. His campaign dismissed the allegations from his second wife as old news and an unfair story to be run just before the primary.
For Mr. Gingrich, another good debate performance Thursday night could help propel him to a victory on Saturday. But he still faces long-term challenges, including a lack of money and a paltry campaign infrastructure in most parts of the country.
Top strategists for Mr. Romney's campaign expressed confidence that he would withstand a surge by Mr. Gingrich, even if Mr. Gingrich ends up winning in South Carolina. They noted that months ago, political observers would have said it was a long-shot for Mr. Romney to win the state in the first place.
Kevin Madden, an adviser to Mr. Romney, said Mr. Gingrich is benefiting from a Republican electorate that has been especially volatile during this presidential campaign. But he said Mr. Romney is still in a better position to win than is Mr. Gingrich or any of his other rivals.
"The Romney campaign has been built around a model that expects very close contests in all of these states," Mr. Madden said. "The candidates are going to be judged on their ability to make the case that they are the best one to turn the economy around and which candidate best positioned to beat Obama in the general election."
In addition to the debate, that argument will be fiercely made in a final flurry of television ads that will continue to blanket South Carolina airwaves through Saturday.
But Mr. Perry's departure will silence one of the loudest guns in the fight: Make Us Great Again, the "super PAC" that once planned to spend $55 million to help Mr. Perry win the nomination.
Officials at the group asked television stations in the state to cease running attack ads targeting Mr. Gingrich, according to a person involved with Make Us Great Again. The group had already spent most of its money, the person said, and would likely shut down in the coming days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ETHICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%) Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Schmidt, Steve; Endorsements; Political Action Committees; Political Advertising; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; ABC News; Make Us Great Again; Iowa; South Carolina; In South Carolina; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ABC News; Make Us Great Again

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); RICK PERRY (92%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); RON PAUL (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Schmidt, Steve

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



841 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: City's Jobless Rate Rises as Nation's Falls

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: New state figures undermine the mayor's boasts that New York City's economy weathered the downturn better than the rest of the nation and bounced back faster. 

 BODY:
Almost since the recession began, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has boasted that New York City's economy weathered the downturn better than the rest of the nation and bounced back faster.
 But the latest report on jobs and unemployment in New York, released on Thursday, tells a different story. According to the State Labor Department, New York City's unemployment rate edged up to 9 percent in December, from 8.9 percent in November, compared to a national rate that dropped to 8.5 percent from 8.7 percent.
 In 2011, the private sector in the city added just 38,900 jobs, a growth rate of only 1.2 percent. (Making matters worse, the number of government jobs shrank by about 2,300 during the year.) By contrast, the number of private-sector jobs in the country as a whole rose at a rate of 1.8 percent, or one and a half times the pace of the city's growth. 
 "We're definitely underperforming after several years of outperforming," said James P. Brown, principal economist for the State Department of Labor. In the last few months, Mr. Brown said, the national economy has settled into a slow but steady pattern of job growth, while New York City's unemployment rate has been "flat to slowly rising."
 A big part of the problem in New York City is that Wall Street has been laying off workers as the profits of the big investment banks and brokerage firms have declined. That sector shed jobs in 2011 and should continue to shrink through the early months of this year, Mr. Brown said.
 "We're getting weak profit reports and announcements of layoffs," he said, referring to financial companies.
 The city also is not benefiting from the rebound of two big industries felt elsewhere: the manufacturing of durable goods and construction. There is very little heavy manufacturing in the city, and the number of jobs in most segments of the city's construction industry fell by more than 5 percent in 2011.
 Statewide, the unemployment rate held steady at 8 percent in December. At year's end, there were about 770,000 unemployed residents of New York State, about 55 percent of whom were collecting unemployment benefits, according to the Labor Department.

        
City Jobless Rate Rises, Exceeding the Nation's
        
City's Unemployment Rate Stays at 8.7%
        
City Unemployment Rate Ticks Up to 8.7%
        
Jobless Rate Holds at 8.7%, but Many Have Given Up Looking
        
Old Lesson for New, Tough-Talking Governors: 'It's the Economy ...'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%) Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; New York City; Demographics; Housing & Economy; Labor

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



842 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Military Ruler Told Carter Video of Soldiers Stomping on Woman Was Fake

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: During a conversation with former President Jimmy Carter last week, Egypt's current head of state, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, claimed that widely circulated video images of soldiers beating, stripping and kicking a female protester on the pavement of Tahrir Square last month were entirely fake. 

 BODY:
During a conversation with former President Jimmy Carter last week, Egypt's current head of state, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, claimed that widely circulated video images of soldiers beating, stripping and kicking a female protester on the pavement of Tahrir Square last month were entirely fake.
The abuse of the woman, whose black cloak was pulled back to reveal her blue bra as soldiers used force to disperse protesters on Dec. 17, was captured in raw video that was broadcast by a private Egyptian television channel. 
Within hours, more video of the attack on the woman was posted online by activists, who edited the images to highlight the abuse of the woman. 
A Reuters photograph of one soldier stomping on the woman's chest, which was printed on the front page on an Egyptian newspaper, has become an icon of the struggle for an end to military rule in Egypt. Outraged by the incident, thousands of Egyptian women took to the streets of Cairo three days later, waving images of the attack on the woman. 
As the Moroccan-American journalist Issandr El Amrani points out on his blog, The Arabist, Mr. Carter described the general's apparently unsubstantiated claim in a report on his recent trip to Egypt published online this week.
In a section of his report detailing "a thorough discussion" with Field Marshal Tantawi, the head of Egypt's ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, Mr. Carter wrote:
Since the overthrow of King Farouk in 1953, Egypt has been governed by military leaders, who have accumulated and maintained full political and military power and substantial control over economic and commercial affairs. Despite the overthrow of President Hosni Mubarak, the military has retained an overwhelming portion of its historic authority. Only pressure from the revolutionary forces on the streets has resulted in grudging concessions.
I was received with a friendly welcome as I congratulated the military leaders for what seemed to be a successful election, and then asked a number of questions. It seemed that the SCAF had full confidence that there would be accommodation to their demands by the Muslim Brotherhood and their coalition partners as the new government is formed. Instead of the reported 12,000 mostly political prisoners being held for trials in military courts, the Field Marshal stated that there were no more than 3,000, all of whom were guilty of criminal acts and being tried in civilian courts. He stated that the widely promulgated videos showing military attacks on demonstrators and a woman "with the blue brassiere" were all falsified. He said the soldiers were actually helping the woman re-clothe herself with what was provocative attire.
Mr. Carter, who described some of his meeting with the field marshal to my colleague David Kirkpatrick last week, did not mention if the military ruler offered any sort of proof or technical explanation to support his claim.
The former president also wrote in his report: "It seemed to me that the basic question to be decided is whether the SCAF (military junta) will relinquish full control of the government to the elected officials."
As The Lede reported on Wednesday, opposition activists have mounted a campaign to educate the Egyptian public about abuses by the military based around public screenings of video documenting attacks on protesters, like the beating of the unidentified woman. Ahmad H. Aggour, an activist who writes on Twitter as Psypherize, reported on Thursday night that plans to stage a screening outside Field Marshal Tantawi's home in Cairo were abandoned because of the threat of violence from supporters of the military.
Families of army officers and military police and #Mubarak loyalists are all at #Tantawi's house. Lots of weapons carried.
- Ahmad H. Aggour (@Psypherize) January 19, 2012
After reportedly fending off attacks from supporters of the old regime, the protesters marched to a nearby part of the city and began a screening of the abuse videos late Thursday night.

        
Taking to the Streets of Cairo, Wielding Video Projectors
        
Activists Document Raids on Civil Society Groups and a Protest in Cairo
        
Egyptian Blogger Released From Jail
        
Tahrir Square, Walled In
        
Egyptian Military Adviser Calls Attack on Woman Justified

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WRITERS (73%); RIOTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%) abuse; Egypt; protests; Carter, Jimmy; Tantawi, Mohamed Hussein; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Video Recordings and Downloads; Women and Girls; Cairo (Egypt); Tahrir Square (Cairo); Middle East; News; world

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (93%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%) Carter, Jimmy; Tantawi, Mohamed Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) EGYPT (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Cairo (Egypt); Egypt; Tahrir Square (Cairo)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



843 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: More on Romney's Tax Rate (and Everyone Else's)

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Factoring corporate, state and local taxes into what the wealthiest -- and other Americans -- pay. 

 BODY:
There are any number ways to calculate a household's tax rate. You can look at just the federal income tax and conclude that almost half of Americans don't pay taxes, or look at all taxes and conclude that a vast majority of Americans do pay taxes.
 To my news analysis explaining that most households actually pay a lower federal tax rate than 15 percent -- the rate Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, says that he pays -- there are two postscripts worth adding:
First, I focused on direct taxes. If you also include indirect taxes -- mainly corporate taxes, effectively paid by stockholders -- Mr. Romney's rate rises higher. On average, the top 1 percent of earners pay about 10 percent of their income in corporate taxes, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Companies officially pay these taxes. But by reducing the after-tax earnings of the company, the taxes ultimately come out of the pockets of the company's owners. Economists, with good reason, like to apportion all taxes to people, rather than to an entity like a corporation.
Second, most of the article focused on federal taxes, not state or local taxes (for which the data is thinner). Because Mr. Romney's income is so high, he pays relatively little of it in state and local taxes. A middle-class or poor family would pay a greater proportion.
These two factors obviously point in different directions. So if you widened the lens beyond direct federal taxes -- to all taxes, including indirect, state and local taxes -- the conclusion would likely be similar. Mr. Romney does not pay a lower tax rate than most Americans. He also doesn't pay a much higher tax rate, despite being much more affluent.

        
Capital Gains: Romney and the 1%
        
Cutting the Corporate Tax Rate Is No Economic Panacea
        
Tackling Income Inequality
        
The Biggest Challenge for Today's Tax Reformers
        
Who Ultimately Pays the Corporate Income Tax?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAX REFORM (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%) Corporate Taxes; Income Tax; Mitt Romney; Romney, Mitt; Federal Taxes (US); Presidential Election of 2012; The 1 Percent

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



844 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 3879 words

HEADLINE: Charleston, S.C., Debate Live Blog

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican presidential candidates -- minus one, after Rick Perry dropped out earlier Thursday -- take the stage in Charleston, S.C., for the final debate before Saturday's South Carolina primary. 

 BODY:
The Republican presidential candidates -- minus one, after Rick Perry dropped out earlier Thursday -- take the stage in Charleston, S.C., at 8 p.m. Eastern time Thursday for the final debate before Saturday's South Carolina primary. 
Stay tuned for live updates, tweets and analysis of the best moments in real time. We'll also taking be suggestions from readers for candidate statements that deserve a closer look. You can submit them via Twitter with the hashtag #asknyt or on the dashboard. And then come back to The Caucus and to NYTimes.com for the latest coverage of the primary.
Live Dashboard | Download the Election 2012 iPhone AppTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeight
9:14 P.M. | Voters' Views: Romney's Tax Returns
Although the debate over whether Mr. Romney should release his tax returns, here, among these voters, his returns don't seem to be an issue.
"If he pays the government more than he should then he's a fool," said the divorce lawyer.
"If he's O.K. with the I.R.S., he's alright with me," said our hostess, Mrs. Hyatt. (the Democrat)
"There's an insinuation that he's a crock," said Mrs. Tapp. (The staunch Romney supporter.)
"I could care less what he made," says her husband.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Obama Assails Republican Field
As the Republican candidates criticized each other on stage, Mr. Obama delivered his own critique of the field, in remarks at a campaign event in New York Thursday night:
 I mean, think about it. In 2008, I was running against a Republican nominee who agreed that we should ban torture, agreed that we should close Guantanamo, believed in climate change, had worked on immigration reform. And so as profound as the differences were between myself and John McCain, there was some sense of convergence when it came to some very important issues.
 If you've been listening to the Republican debates, they have moved. I've stayed here. They've gone in a different direction.
- 
9:08 P.M. | The End of a Friendship?
We just witnessed the implosion of a long-time friendship and political alliance, as Mr. Santorum unloaded against Mr. Gingrich, his one-time mentor in the House - on his "grandiosity," not having "cogent thoughts" and worrying whether "something's going to pop" about his personal life. 
And Mr. Gingrich gave back as good as he got, pleading guilty to grandiosity and thinking big. Wait for the transcript and the video replay on this one, but you'll find Mr. Santorum apparently reconsidering whether he had been too light on Mr. Gingrich's character in the opening question his personal life. The exchange emphasizes how much is at stake here for Mr. Santorum as he makes his most aggressive move in all of these debates.
- 
9:07 P.M. | Fact Check: Gingrich and Individual Mandates
Newt Gingrich is trying to make the case that as the Republican presidential nominee, he would demolish President Obama in a debate over the Affordable Care Act. But Rick Santorum retorted that he would not be credible, because for 10 years Mr. Gingrich supported an individual mandate to buy health insurance, the core of the law that Republicans call Obamacare. 
Since the beginning of the campaign, Mr. Gingrich has admitted to once supporting an individual mandate, back in the early 1990s when many conservatives rallied behind the idea as an alternative to President Bill Clinton's proposed health care reform. 
Mr. Gingrich says he changed his mind after studying the issue, and he leaves the impression that he abandoned the idea fairly quickly. 
But the record, as Mr. Santorum said, suggests that Mr. Gingrich's change of mind wasn't so swift. In 2006, the Center for Health Transformation, a for-profit research group he founded, put forward a plan that people earning $50,000 or more be required to buy health insurance or put up a bond.
- 
9:02 P.M. | Santorum and Gingrich Battling to Be Romney Alternative
Mr. Romney is the front-runner in the race. But you get the sense that Mr. Santorum has decided that he absolutely has to undermine Mr. Gingrich in this debate.
The two are vying to become the alternative to Mr. Romney, and it seems like both of them know that only one of them will survive.
Mr. Santorum has attacked Mr. Gingrich ferociously tonight, essentially arguing that Mr. Gingrich is a loose cannon who would be ineffective as president.
"I don't want a nominee," he said, who will make people worry about "what he's going to say next. That's what I think we're seeing here."
He charged a moment later that Mr. Gingrich was an ineffective House speaker. 
"I served with him. I was there. I knew what the problems were going on in there," Mr. Santorum charged. "It was an idea a minute. No discipline. No ability to pull things together."
Mr. Gingrich responded that he - not Mr. Santorum - would be an agent for real, significant change in Washington.
"How big a scale of change do we want in Washington?" he asked.
- 
8:59 P.M. | Gingrich Releases Tax Return
While Mr. Gingrich was beating up on the debate moderator, Mr. King, at tonight's debate, his staff released his 2010 tax return.
Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, and his wife, Callista, reported income of $3.1 million for 2010 in tax returns posted on his Web site, including $450,245 in salary from two companies he controls and $2.5 million in income from partnerships and corporations, including Gingrich Holdings Inc. He also earned $41,625 in speaking fees and payments for serving on boards of directors.
The couple paid $994,708 in federal taxes, leaving them with an effective federal tax rate of 31.7 percent - about twice as high as the 15 percent rate Mitt Romney said he and his wife paid on income that totaled at least $9.6 million during 2010 and part of 2011, according to Mr. Romney's federal financial disclosure forms. Mr. Romney also reported earning speaking fees of $374,000 on those forms. Mr. Romney has said he will not release a tax return until April.
Mr. Gingrich, who angrily denied allegations tonight from one of his ex-wives, Marianne Gingrich, that he had asked her for an "open marriage," also reported paying $19,800 in alimony to a recipient whose name was redacted from the return.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Voters' Views: Paul a Hit on Medical Reform
They are loving Ron Paul on medical reform. "I wouldn't vote for him, but he is not afraid to say what other people up there won't. He's not afraid to be booed," says one of the lone liberal Democrats in the room.
"He has walked in these shoes," says Mrs. Hyatt, who is a little less liberal.
"I just can't picture him in the White House," says Mr. Dillard, who is not liberal at all. "He's too old for the White House, anyway."
He's still holding his position: Mr. Gingrich.
- 
8:47 P.M. | Santorum Goes on the Attack Over Health Care
Rick Santorum may have just made his clearest, most aggressive case yet that he - not Mr. Romney or Mr. Gingrich - should be the nominee.
Neither of the two men can argue against Mr. Obama's health care plan, he insisted, because they are compromised by the positions they have taken.
He called the health care plan Mr. Romney created when he was governor of Massachusetts "an abject disaster" and said Mr. Obama would use that against him.
Mr. Gingrich, he said, supported individual mandates and could not make the case for repealing the president's health care plan.
"These are two folks who don't present the clear contrast that I do," Mr. Santorum claimed.
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney took exception.
Having had experience in Massachusetts, Mr. Romney said, he will have the experience to get rid of the federal health care plan. "I know how to cut it. I'll eliminate it," he said, and "return it to the states."
Mr. Gingrich expressed indignation. Yes, he supported mandates, he admitted. But in a debate with Mr. Obama, he said, "I can say: 'I was wrong. I figured it out. You were wrong and you didn't.' "
- 
8:43 P.M. | Fact Check: Santorum on Employment in Manufacturing
Mr. Santorum said he would eliminate taxes on American manufacturers to boost their competitiveness. He noted that employment in manufacturing has declined from 21 percent of the labor force to 9 percent.
The numbers are basically correct, but it is important to understand the reason.
American factories produce more goods now, worth more money, than at any other point in history. The nation's manufacturing output has more than doubled since 1970, adjusting for inflation.
But factories have also become much more efficient, so that the number of jobs in manufacturing has plummeted even as output has soared.
American manufacturers, in other words, are doing fine. They are highly competitive. But there is little prospect that they will start hiring large numbers of workers. Taxes or no taxes, they simply don't need more bodies on the factory floor.
- 
8:42 P.M. | Fact Check: Romney 'Starting' Companies
Mitt Romney said the private equity company he founded, Bain Capital, "started a number of companies" that eventually hired 120,000 workers.
That language is not accurate. Bain Capital invested in several companies at an early phase - Staples, for instance, and Sports Authority, two retailers that have since thrived - but it was not solely responsible for creating these businesses. 
Instead, Bain identified these companies as promising businesses and put money into them, reaping major rewards over time (a concept known as venture capitalism). 
Mr. Romney can more accurately claim to have "helped" start these companies.
- 
8:39 P.M. | Voters' Views: Mixed Opinions on Military Spending
Linda Tapp, 65, a retired medical office worker, cheers Mitt Romney's answer about money: "It doesn't bother me that he is wealthy. That tells me he knows how to handle finances."
But can she convince Jay Gresham, a Ron Paul supporter eating an extremely sweet Southern cake made by his godmother?
Says Mr. Gresham, a young student from the Citadel, "I think Romney had a strong answer, but I'm still behind my candidate."
And even the anti-Paul folks in the room cheered his comments about the need to help vetearns.
Mr. Santorum? Mr. Gresham and his mother, Kathleen Jennings, think the defense budget shouldn't be cut. Others disagree. Everything must be cut.
"Even mosquito netting?" asks someone.
"We take care of ourselves first," says Ms. Jennings, a former divorce lawyer. 
Over all, no one seems to have his hand on the rudder. But Mr. Gingrich seems to be the most masterful at the moment, most agree.
- 
8:37 P.M. | Fact Check: Santorum on Obama's Military Spending Cuts
Mr. Santorum repeated a claim he made Monday, that under a doomsday scenario, Mr. Obama wants to cut $1 trillion from military spending. As Jackie Calmes pointed out then:
Congressional Republicans as well as Democrats support the level of cuts that Mr. Obama seeks. The cuts were mandated as part of the bipartisan deficit-reduction agreement with Mr. Obama in August. Mr. Obama has proposed alternative deficit-reduction measures to avoid the threatened automatic cuts, but Republicans oppose his plan because it calls for additional revenues from higher taxes on the wealthy as well as spending reductions in entitlement benefit programs like Medicare, farm subsidies and federal pension programs.
- 
8:31 P.M. | Santorum Looking to Build Own Momentum
Rick Santorum comes into tonight's debate after a day of good news and bad news. The good: he officially won the Iowa caucuses, and Mitt Romney called to congratulate him. The bad: when Rick Perry dropped out of the race Thursday morning, he endorsed Newt Gingrich, fueling a sense that Mr. Gingrich has some momentum.
Mr. Santorum is faced with the question of how hard to go after Mr. Gingrich, with whom he has been locked in a heated competition, and whether to aim at Mr. Romney.
He suggested on the stump today that Mr. Gingrich was unstable and said he could easily embarrass the party if it nominated him. But in the opening question of tonight's debate - basically, whether it was legitimate to go after Mr. Gingrich on questions of his character - Mr. Santorum gave a muddled response. Still, he is unlikely to pass up the opportunity of the last high-exposure event of the South Carolina primary to impress upon voters that he is the true conservative.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Romney Focusing on Obama 
Look for Mr. Romney's rhetoric against President Obama to be even tougher than usual for the next 90 minutes. It appears that he's planning to make his case to be the nominee by trying to prove that he'd be the most aggressive. Referring to his argument for free enterprise, he said he would "stuff it down" Mr. Obama's throat. Pretty tough stuff.
- 
8:27 P.M. | Romney Turns Bain Attack on Obama
Prodded by Mr. King, Mr. Gingrich was happy to continue the attack on Mr. Romney's experience at Bain Capital, pointing to a couple of examples where he said Mr. Romney "should explain" himself.
Mr. Romney used the opportunity for a long windup on the issue of capitalism and free enterprise, getting more outraged by the attacks as he went.
"My view is, capitalism works. Free enterprise works," Mr. Romney said to huge applause from the audience. 
Mr. Romney called it "strange" that such attacks were coming from "the people on this stage," given that he expects such attacks to come from President Obama and his allies.
Mr. Romney vowed to continue to advocate the cause of "capitalism and freedom" throughout the year, and pledged, in regard to his battle with Mr. Obama, that "we are going to stuff it down his throat."
- 
8:23 P.M. | Voters' Views: On Marriage
Mixed reviews on how the candidates handled the Gingrich marriage question.
Kathleen Jennings, who is leaning toward Ron Paul and used to practice law, said: "Having done 5,000 or so divorces, you can't believe what a spouse says. In every divorce, someone is disgruntled. I think it was unfair to hit him with that right off. It's like a bullfight. They just wanted blood."
Ronny Dillard, who is retired from his job in textiles and is leaning toward Mr. Gingrich, said Mr. Romney's answer was the best. "Like Santorum said, we've all fallen."
- 
8:22 P.M. | A Strong Beginning for Gingrich
There may have been no better way for Mr. Gingrich to hammer back at the personal allegations from his ex-wife than to make the media the enemy for telling her story. 
And that's just what he did. In spades.
After CNN's John King opened the debate with a direct question about the ABC News report on Marianne Gingrich's allegation that he requested an open marriage, Mr. Gingrich seized the opportunity.
"I am appalled that you would begin a presidential debate on a topic like that," a visibly outraged and angry Mr. Gingrich said. Raising the issue "is as as close to despicable as anything I can imagine."
The audience in the hall went wild, applauding madly and loudly.
Mr. King tried to deflect the blame by noting that it was ABC, not CNN, that ran the story. Mr. Gingrich was on a roll, and would have none of it.
"John, it was repeated by your network. You choose to start the debate with it. Don't blame someone else," he said, to even louder applause. "I am tired of the elite media protecting Barack Obama."
Asked whether the story should be an issue, the other candidates tried to move the subject to other places.
"John let's get on to the real issues," Mr. Romney said. "That's all I've got to say."
- 
8:10 P.M. | Paul Returns to South Carolina 
CHARLESTON, S.C. - Representative Ron Paul of Texas, arriving back in South Carolina after voting in Congress against an increase in the federal debt ceiling, appeared at only one event in the state today before the debate: a speech at the College of Charleston before hundreds of cheering students, among others.
Mr. Paul, in appearances and in debates, tends to stick to the same issues he has for years, and he did so again in the speech, one that probably previewed the same issues he will hit on tonight, including the erosion of personal freedoms in the Patriot Act, the need to pull troops home and his concerns about the Federal Reserve and the debasement of the dollar.
But at the opening of the speech, he also decried controversial legislation in Congress intended to curb Web piracy that has created a backlash from activists who believe that the proposals will hurt innovation on the Internet and open it to unreasonable police actions. 
It is a subject tailor-made for Mr. Paul's anti-big-government and pro-civil-liberties platform, and one that he may well try to discuss in more detail during the debate tonight.
"There is so much deception going on," he said in the speech. "The Constitution was written not to restrain you, but to let you have your freedom, but also to protect your privacy."
He added: "They're trying to take over the Internet at the same time they want more secrecy in government, so I want to turn that around. I want you to have your privacy and your freedoms."
- 
8:06 P.M. | Taking the Stage
Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich will be standing at center stage together, with Ron Paul and Rick Santorum on the wings. That should at least give visual focus to the matchup between the two leading candidates in the state.
- 
8:01 P.M. | Caucus Click: Protesting 'Pork'
- 
7:57 P.M. | Voters' Views: Bipartisan Viewing
In a gesture of Southern hospitality, Karen and Richard Hyatt gathered some friends in their living room in Greenville to watch the debate.
Theirs is a marriage of discord, as they politely put it. He's a Republican and she's a Democrat. She said she might vote in the primary, as people can in South Carolina, regardless of their party affiliation.
She wants to show her support for the most liberal Republican.
Her husband? He's a Romney man. "Newt's not electable nationally," he said. 
But after the turn of events lately, with the talk of Cayman Island accounts and concerns about his wealth, he said, things could turn.
"As long as they beat Obama, I would vote for any of them," he said. There are two other couples like that here tonight. That ought to make for some good discussion if the subject of Newt Gingrich's views on open marriage come up.
They include Jane and Ronny Dillard. She's a self-described Yellow Dog Democrat who is going to vote in the Republican primary, too. She wants to support the most liberal Republican she can. That's Mr. Romney.
Her husband, a retired textile man, is going for Mr. Gingrich because, he said, he knows more about what America needs to do to get the economy running.
In between the shrimp and wine, people said they want to hear what the candidates say about the economy, immigration and Congress.
"Something's got to happen to that," said Kathleen Jennings, who once practiced law and was the first female prosecutor in South Carolina. She brought her son, Jay. He's 19 and attends the Citadel. He's all
about Ron Paul and is trying to persuade his mother to go that way.
- 
7:53 P.M. | A Tough Week for Romney
CHARLESTON, S.C. - The developments that awaited Mitt Romney on Thursday morning were more bad news in an already tough week. 
By noon, Mr. Romney had learned that his eight-vote victory in Iowa - which he jokingly referred to as a "landslide" - was actually a nearly-as-narrow, 34-vote win for Rick Santorum, and that Gov. Rick Perry of Texas was dropping out of the race and endorsing Newt Gingrich, who was already encroaching on Mr. Romney's lead in the polls.
Earlier in the week, Mr. Romney revealed that he pays an effective tax rate of about 15 percent, and described the $374,327 he earned in speaking fees last year as "not very much," even though that figure alone would put him in the top 1 percent of the country's earners.
Mr. Romney prefers to keep his focus on President Obama, and only directly engages with his Republican rivals when his campaign is worried that one is surging, but this week, the Romney camp has launched an aggressive attack on Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, painting him as an "unreliable leader."
He made a "surprise" appearance on a Florida conference call this morning, attacking Mr. Gingrich as living in a "fantasyland," an attack he echoed later in the day on the stump, when he stopped by his Charleston campaign headquarters to rally his volunteers.
"I was interested in the last debate - Newt was talking about all the jobs he was able to help create as a Congressman working so closely with Ronald Reagan," Mr. Romney said on the call. "Actually, he'd only been in Congress for two years when Ronald Reagan came to office. I don't think he was the author of Reaganomics or of the success in the Reagan years. Him taking credit for that qualifies as a fantasyland experience as well, I'm afraid."
In an earlier conference call Thursday morning, John Sununu, the former governor of New Hampshire and a supporter of Mr. Romney, tried to minimize Mr. Gingrich further, saying that a witty quip at a debate hardly qualified someone to compete against Mr. Obama in November. 
But the truth is: Mr. Gingrich earned largely positive headlines after a strong performance at the Republican debate on Monday, and going into this evening's contest - with just four candidates left onstage - Mr. Romney needs to have a strong showing if he wants to turn the momentum back his way.
- 
7:50 P.M. | A Night of Political Theater
The CNN debate is only the first act in a two-part bit of televised political theater tonight. 
After the debate ends at 10 p.m., "Nightline," on ABC News, will broadcast its full interview with Marianne Gingrich, the second of Mr. Gingrich's wives.
A clip from that interview - and the allegation that he had requested an "open marriage" from her - has already been reported today. 
But ABC has been holding the rest of the interview close, and said a transcript would not be released before the interview airs at 11:35 p.m.
- 
7:24 P.M. | Candidates Plan a Full Day Friday
So you think Rick Perry's decision to drop out of the presidential campaign might mean a slightly slower day Friday? Think again.
The remaining Republican candidates have scheduled a grand total of 19 events in the state, starting with a Newt Gingrich appearance at 9 a.m. and ending with a nighttime Ron Paul rally that begins 12 hours later.
Fresh off Thursday's final debate, the candidates will be doing everything they can to convince voters in the state to rally behind them. Much of that work is done with phone calls, fliers and ads.
But showing up still helps.
- 
7:10 P.M. | What to Watch for in Thursday's Debate
The shrinking field of Republican candidates - now just four - will cap a volatile day on the campaign trail with another debate on Thursday night, this time at the North Charleston Coliseum in Charleston, S.C.
The organizers of the debate - CNN and the Southern Republican Leadership Conference - had to act quickly to remove a podium after Gov. Rick Perry of Texas announced in the morning that he was dropping out of the race.
That leaves Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul as the candidates who will take the stage. The two-hour debate will be moderated by John King, CNN's chief national correspondent, and will begin at 8 p.m. Eastern.
Here's a look at what to watch for in tonight's debate.
- 

        
Live Blogging the Myrtle Beach Debate
        
Live Blogging the Fox News Debate in Iowa
        
Iowa Republican Debate Blog
        
Live Blogging the National Security Debate
        
Highlights From the Republican Debate in S.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) debates; live blogging; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Charleston (SC); Elections

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Charleston (SC)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



845 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing Textbooks: A Hard Course

BYLINE: DAVID STREITFELD


HIGHLIGHT: Apple has announced ambitious plans to reinvent the textbook market -- something that Amazon tried to do three years ago. While Apple may have better luck, it wants total control over the how the books are sold. The two goals may be difficult to reconcile. 

 BODY:
A technology company announces plans to reinvent higher education by encouraging the creation of a new kind of textbook. Students will learn better, faster, cheaper. They will be spurred to new triumphs that will finally reverse the persistent decline in American education and the American way of life.
That is more or less the presentation Apple made on Thursday, but it is a song that has been sung before. Nearly three years ago, in May 2009, Amazon said much the same thing when it came up with the Kindle DX, a souped-up e-reader.
Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, introduced the DX at Pace University, calling the device particularly suited to textbooks. Barbara Snyder, president of Case Western Reserve University, was quotedin the official news release as saying the device "holds enormous potential to influence the way students learn."
Case Western, Pace, Princeton, Reed College, Arizona State and other colleges were involved in trial programs to make the Kindle DX available to students. The textbook publishers Cengage Learning, Pearson and Wiley, which were described as representing more than 60 percent of the United States higher education textbook market, were to begin offering textbooks through the Kindle Store within a few months.
It seemed like yet another instance of the way the tech industry explodes antiquated business models. But the plan largely fizzled. As Reed reported in early 2010 in a post-mortem on its trial, "students and faculty in Reed's Kindle study were unanimous in reporting that the Kindle DX -- in its current incarnation -- was unable to meet their academic needs."
How did inevitable triumph turn into a non-event?
The Reed pilot gave 43 students Kindle DXs and measured their progress in three upper-level undergraduate courses. Students basically liked the device and found it easy to carry and use. The faculty was happy that students using the e-reader in class would be less likely to goof off than they might with a laptop. But the device proved somewhat more cumbersome than paper texts. For instance, skimming was harder to do electronically, the students said. Quickly finding passages in the text to cite in class was also difficult.
Another issue was price. The Kindle DX sold for $489. While textbooks are a heavy burden on student economics, any early adapters would have to pay for the DX as well as textbooks until the digital transformation was largely complete.
Much of the criticism of the DX in the classroom might disappear with a better device -- like, say, an iPad. But the Reed report noted that the eventual adoption of e-readers in the classroom would not necessarily follow the computer deployment model, where the college or university buys the devices, installs them, provides technical support and even requires them for specific degree programs. Instead, the report thought the devices would follow the consumer cellphone model, where the students, not the schools, make the decisions.
Cellphones, however, communicate over a standardized network. If I have a Verizon phone and you have T-Mobile, we can still make plans for dinner. But Apple and Amazon, to take the two most obvious examples in this market, are not particularly interested in making their platforms available except under the strictest terms. Apple explicitly saidThursday in its FAQs on the announcement that any textbooks sold through it could not be sold anywhere else:
Q. I'm an author (or publisher). Can I distribute this work on my own Web site?
A. You may distribute books created in iBooks Author free of charge on your own Web site. If you wish to sell your book, you must do so through the iBookstore.
Without either a universally accepted file format for textbooks, or the ability of e-readers to accommodate many different standards, the Reed report concluded that "faculty will find themselves faced with the prospect of selecting course readings based on their compatibility with a particular device rather than on the suitability of the material for the course. It is unlikely that faculty (or librarians) will tolerate such a restriction."

        
Apple Introduces Tools to (Someday) Supplant Print Textbooks
        
Coursekit Raises $5 Million to Reinvent the Classroom
        
Bits Scan: Inside Google, the Future of Gaming and Data Breaches
        
Dad, I Need an iPhone to Do My Homework
        
New iPhone Apps Help Drivers Beat Speed Traps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%) Apple; Camcorders; Education; Internet; Textbooks; Bezos, Jeffrey P; Amazon Kindle; Colleges and Universities; Computers and the Internet; E-Books and Readers; Amazon.com Inc; Apple Incorporated; Reed College; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ; Personal Computing

COMPANY: CENGAGE LEARNING INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; Apple Incorporated; Reed College

TICKER: Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (87%) Bezos, Jeffrey P

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



846 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Charleston, S.C., Debate Fact-Check

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Times reporters take a closer look at some of the statements made by the Republican presidential candidates in Thursday night's debate in Charleston, S.C. 

 BODY:
 Romney's Record on Abortion
Mr. Gingrich, citing "facts we've validated," accused Mr. Romney of presiding over a number of measures as Massachusetts governor that allowed state support of abortions.
He said that Mr. Romney's state health care plan allowed for abortions paid by taxpayers, and that it included a role for Planned Parenthood but none for a representative from a group opposed to abortion rights. 
Mr. Romney replied that there was "scintilla" of truth in these assertions but that Mr. Gingrich was distorting the health care law to falsely tar him as insufficiently opposed to abortion. He has a persuasive case.
The health care overhaul law that Mr. Romney signed does not mention abortion coverage. The agency overseeing the system later decided to cover abortion because of rulings by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, which Mr. Romney had no control over. Mr. Gingrich has suggested while campaigning that Mr. Romney might have gotten around this by finding a way to ignore the court (as he has suggested a president could ignore United States Supreme Court rulings). However, it is not fully accurate to state that Mr. Romney's health care law included "tax-paid" abortions.
The law does empower Planned Parenthood to appoint one person to a 14-member advisory board, with no provision for a group opposed to abortion to name a representative. But the board is a technical one that reviews Medicaid rates. It does not have a role in deciding whether or not to pay for abortions.
- 
 Romney's Inheritance 
Mitt Romney said he did not inherit any money from his parents. 
This is not entirely accurate, according to Mr. Romney's previous remarks on the topic. 
In an interview with C-Span in March 2006, Mr. Romney said that upon the death of his father, George, the wealthy former chief executive of American Motors, he received an inheritance. But he quickly donated the money to Brigham Young University, he said. (The younger Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, attended the college, which is tied to the Mormon Church.) 
"I did get a check from my dad when he passed away," Mr. Romney told Brian Lamb during the interview. "I shouldn't say a check, but I did inherit some funds from my dad.
"But I turned and gave that away to charity," Mr. Romney said. "In this case I gave it to a school which Brigham Young University established in his honor, the George W. Romney School of Public Management."
Mr. Romney continued: "And as an institute of public management, it helps young people learn about government and about serving in public service. And that's where his inheritance ended up."
Even so, Mr. Romney benefited heavily from his father's wealth: he relied on George Romney for a loan that he used to buy his first home, in Belmont, Mass., for $42,000.
- 
 Gingrich and the Individual Mandate
Newt Gingrich is trying to make the case that as the Republican presidential nominee, he would demolish President Obama in a debate over the Affordable Care Act. But Rick Santorum retorted that he would not be credible, because for 10 years Mr. Gingrich supported an individual mandate to buy health insurance, the core of the law that Republicans call Obamacare. 
Since the beginning of the campaign, Mr. Gingrich has admitted to once supporting an individual mandate, back in the early 1990s when many conservatives rallied behind the idea as an alternative to President Bill Clinton's proposed health care reform. 
Mr. Gingrich says he changed his mind after studying the issue, and he leaves the impression that he abandoned the idea fairly quickly. 
But the record, as Mr. Santorum said, suggests that Mr. Gingrich's change of mind wasn't so swift. In 2006, the Center for Health Transformation, a for-profit research group he founded, put forward a plan that people earning $50,000 or more be required to buy health insurance or put up a bond.
- 
 Santorum on Employment in Manufacturing
Mr. Santorum said he would eliminate taxes on American manufacturers to boost their competitiveness. He noted that employment in manufacturing has declined from 21 percent of the labor force to 9 percent.
The numbers are basically correct, but it is important to understand the reason.
American factories produce more goods now, worth more money, than at any other point in history. The nation's manufacturing output has more than doubled since 1970, adjusting for inflation.
But factories have also become much more efficient, so that the number of jobs in manufacturing has plummeted even as output has soared.
American manufacturers, in other words, are doing fine. They are highly competitive. But there is little prospect that they will start hiring large numbers of workers. Taxes or no taxes, they simply don't need more bodies on the factory floor.
- 
 Romney 'Starting' Companies
Mitt Romney said the private equity company he founded, Bain Capital, "started a number of companies" that eventually hired 120,000 workers.
That language is not accurate. Bain Capital invested in several companies at an early phase -- Staples, for instance, and Sports Authority, two retailers that have since thrived -- but it was not solely responsible for creating these businesses. 
Instead, Bain identified these companies as promising businesses and put money into them, reaping major rewards over time (a concept known as venture capitalism). 
Mr. Romney can more accurately claim to have "helped" start these companies.
- 
 Santorum on Obama's Military Spending Cuts
Mr. Santorum repeated a claim Mr. Romney made Monday, that under a doomsday scenario, Mr. Obama wants to cut $1 trillion from military spending.
Congressional Republicans as well as Democrats support the level of cuts that Mr. Obama seeks. The cuts were mandated as part of the bipartisan deficit-reduction agreement with Mr. Obama in August. Mr. Obama has proposed alternative deficit-reduction measures to avoid the threatened automatic cuts, but Republicans oppose his plan because it calls for additional revenues from higher taxes on the wealthy as well as spending reductions in entitlement benefit programs like Medicare, farm subsidies and federal pension programs.
- 

        
South Carolina Debate Fact Check
        
Fact Checking the Concord Debate
        
Las Vegas Debate Fact Check
        
Fact Checking the Republican Debate on the Economy
        
Fact Checking the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ABORTION (96%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MEDICAID (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (61%); RELIGION (60%) debates; fact-check; Appelbaum, Binyamin; Barbaro, Michael; Calmes, Jackie; Gabriel, Trip; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, George; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Charleston (SC); South Carolina; Elections; In South Carolina

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (83%); MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (56%) Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (65%) Appelbaum, Binyamin; Barbaro, Michael; Calmes, Jackie; Gabriel, Trip; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, George; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) Charleston (SC); South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



847 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: There They Go Again

BYLINE: NEIL J. YOUNG


HIGHLIGHT: Christian conservatives like the idea of President Reagan better than they liked the reality. 

 BODY:
A week ago, 150 evangelical leaders meeting at a ranch outside Houston backed Rick Santorum's candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination. Presumably, they hoped that their endorsement would pull Mitt Romney back from the front of the race. Saturday's primary in South Carolina - with evangelicals expected to make up sixty percent of the electorate - provides what seems like a perfect testing ground for disrupting any claims about Romney's inevitable nomination. 
Newt Gingrich is apparently surging once again, taking votes from Romney. Coupled with Rick Perry's exit, the evangelicals' blessing of Santorum in Texas could propel him to a surprisingly good showing on Saturday or - who knows? - perhaps even a victory.
Speaking from Texas shortly after the endorsement, Gary Bauer, a prominent social conservative who ran for president in 2000, explained why the evangelicals had rallied behind Santorum: "They were all looking for the best Reagan conservative."
For nearly twenty-five years, Ronald Reagan has loomed over every Republican contest. During the debates this campaign season, he has been mentioned four times as often as the most recent Republican president, George W. Bush. At the final debate in South Carolina on Thursday, for example, Newt Gingrich said, "When I became speaker, we went back to the Ronald Reagan play book." Mitt Romney, for his part, didn't like to hear Gingrich speaking that way. "I looked at the Reagan diary," he told Gingrich. "You're mentioned once."
This is typical. Across the Republican Party's political spectrum, candidates continually claim the Reagan mantle, depicting themselves as his most steadfast acolyte and the natural heir to his political legacy. Rick Santorum did it, too, suggesting earlier on Thursday that he was the candidate most likely to fulfill Reagan's political legacy. "We're going to win or lose this election based on about 10 states," he said. "I come from one of those states. I come from a background and a town where there were lots of Reagan Democrats." 
The religious right wing of the Republican Party has clung especially close to the memory of Reagan. In Reagan, religious conservatives remember a president who spiced his speeches with Bible verses, fought for their issues, and championed the nation's Judeo-Christian heritage. But memory is an unreliable guide, and history in the service of politics often breeds soothing myths that camouflage inconvenient truths.
In reality, religious conservatives were often dissatisfied with Reagan's presidency. The Christian right of today - and Republicans generally - must stop using a mythic Reagan as their measuring stick for candidates because it drives them away from viable contenders who fall short of an impossible standard that Reagan himself couldn't have reached.
Believing themselves the key constituency that had guaranteed Reagan's historic win in 1980, Christian conservatives felt the president owed them for their enthusiastic backing. Reagan had courted the nascent political movement on the religious right with a spirited defense of their most cherished political issues, including promises to restore school prayer, to work against the Equal Rights Amendment, and to attack federal abortion rights, legalized just seven years before. 
But once in office, the Reagan administration claimed that it first had to address the nation's weak economy. The social agenda of Christian conservatives would have to wait. In the meantime, the White House planned to muffle their grumbling. "We want to keep the Moral Majority types so close to us they can't move their arms," one Reagan staffer explained to the journalist Lou Cannon.
The complaints piled up. Evangelicals pointed out that Reagan had appointed too few of them to positions in government, despite his campaign promise that evangelicals in his administration would mirror their proportional representation in the American population - about forty percent at the time. In light of that snub, Reagan's selection of Sandra Day O'Connor - who had made several pro-choice votes during her time in the Arizona state legislature - as his first nominee to the Supreme Court stung sharply. 
During the campaign, Reagan had won the National Right to Life Committee's endorsement by pledging that he'd only nominate committed pro-life jurists to the nation's highest court. Reagan's tepid and ineffectual support for key school prayer and anti-abortion legislation in Congress during his first administration frustrated and angered religious conservatives who watched various bills die while the president did little. 
As the 1984 election approached, Jerry Falwell, the leader of the Moral Majority, confessed he was "a little anxious that we haven't had some aggressive support" on issues important to the religious right. Sixty-eight percent of pro-life activists judged Reagan's first four years as "fair to poor" on the abortion issue.
Many Christian conservatives began to publicly question supporting the president's reelection bid. "If we balance the budget and we still keep murdering a million and a half babies every year, there's no way we can say we're better off than we were four years ago," Moral Majority's Cal Thomas commented. "Do not take us for granted," the fundamentalist pastor Bob Jones wrote the president. "We are not going to vote for you in desperation in 1984."
Still, these chiding messages were meant to prod the Reagan White House into an aggressive defense of their issues rather than to represent a legitimate political threat. Conservative Christians generously contributed to Reagan's landslide win in 1984. While disheartened by what they saw as the slim accomplishments of the first four years, many Christian conservatives, rather than hold Reagan personally responsible, blamed moderates in the White House, like James Baker, then chief of staff, for blocking their agenda.
Others contended that Reagan would turn to their priorities in his second term, once he was free to pursue their causes after he'd secured re-election. "With the burden of campaigning behind him for good," a writer for Christianity Today, the nation's leading evangelical publication, wrote on the eve of the election, "the president may move vigorously toward his unfulfilled 1980 promises."
Once returned to office, however, Reagan continued to disappoint conservative Christians by his failure to advance their political objectives. Their anger and frustration with the president soon gave way to grief and disillusionment. Shortly after Reagan left the White House, the influential evangelical intellectual Carl Henry blasted Reagan for having "given little more than lip service" to the concerns of conservative Christians. Looking back on the Reagan presidency and George Bush's election in 1988, the editors of Christianity Today worried in a headline, "Were Christians Courted for Their Votes or Beliefs?"
The political disappointments and painful realizations that marked the religious right's rocky relationship with Reagan's presidency have been replaced by the more powerful seductions of selective memory and wishful fantasy. But like any myth of history, there are small truths within it that alter the memory.
Reagan failed to achieve the religious right's grandiose objectives, but he delivered on other issues religious conservatives cared about, like cutting taxes and increasing military spending. His full-throated espousal of traditional morals and Christian principles along with symbolic gestures like naming 1983 the "Year of the Bible" looked like crass politics to many observers, but linger as forceful evidence for many conservative Christians of Reagan's unique example.
If Republicans want to appeal to an American electorate that increasingly has little direct connection to Ronald Reagan, they need to let go of romantic memories that produce only unrealistic expectations. Part of Reagan's appeal came from his insistence on his own limitations, so Republicans would be wise to stop looking for a savior among a field of mortals. 
In reflecting honestly on their own fractious history with Reagan, religious conservatives and other Republicans alike might better evaluate the candidates that stand before them rather than hopelessly praying for the second coming of a president who never really was.

        
Where Did They Get the Money For That?
        
The Silver Medalists
        
Positively Newt
        
In Praise of Iowa
        
Let's Not Talk About Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (70%) Christian conservatives; Mitt Romney; Newt Gingrich; presidential election of 1980; presidential election of 1984; presidential election of 2012; Reagan administration; religious right and President Reagan; Rick Santorum; Ronald Reagan; the Moral Majority; Baker, James A III; Gingrich, Newt; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Moral Majority; Republican Party; South Carolina

ORGANIZATION: Moral Majority; Republican Party

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (95%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Baker, James A III; Gingrich, Newt; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



848 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Apple Introduces Tools to (Someday) Supplant Print Textbooks

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN and NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
9:02 p.m. Updated
Apple wants students to stop lugging around backpacks full of heavy textbooks and to switch to the iPad instead.
On Thursday the company introduced three free pieces of software revolving around education. It released iBooks 2, a new version of its electronic bookstore, where students can now download textbooks; iBooks Author, a Macintosh program for creating textbooks and other books; and iTunes U, an app for instructors to create digital curriculums and share course materials with students.
Digital textbooks made for iBooks can display interactive diagrams, audio and video. The iBooks Author app includes templates made by Apple, which publishers and authors can customize to suit their content. 
Apple said electronic high school textbooks from its initial publishing partners, including Pearson, McGraw-Hill and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, would cost $15 or less. That is much cheaper than print textbooks, some of which can cost over $100.
''Education is deep in our DNA and it has been from the very beginning,'' said Philip W. Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of marketing, at the event at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.
Textbooks are a fat target for the technology industry. Sales of electronic textbooks accounted for only 2.8 percent of the $8 billion domestic textbook market in 2010, according to Forrester Research. For publishers, the new partnerships with Apple were more likely motivated by a desire to experiment with technology than to earn huge profits, said Sarah Rotman-Epps, a Forrester analyst.
Though the possibilities of Apple's new publishing software and the iPad seemed to excite publishers, even those who are working on iPad textbooks said it would take time for the technology to change how most textbooks are purchased. First, there is the obvious challenge of finding the money for schools to buy iPads, which start at $500 each in stores.
''It's a very high and expensive hurdle to overcome,'' said Josef Blumenfeld, a senior vice president at one publisher working with Apple, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
Mr. Blumenfeld said Houghton had seen high engagement levels when students used an educational app for the iPad that it had already published, and that it expected electronic textbooks to have the same effect.
He said, though, that schools would first have to become comfortable with the idea of paying for rights to iPad textbooks for new students every school year, rather than paying a one-time fee of, say, $60 for a printed textbook that lasts five or six years. Publishers, too, will have to get used to the idea of Apple taking a 30 percent commission on sales. But Mr. Blumenfeld predicted that iPad textbooks would not hurt Harcourt's profits because they would not have printing, shipping and other costs.
By most estimates, Apple has not captured as much of the electronic book market with the iPad and its iBookstore as its chief rival in the business, Amazon, has with the Kindle e-reader. But Amazon has been less successful in the education market.
Amazon in 2009 announced plans to target the textbook publishing industry with the Kindle DX, a larger version of its e-reader. But Amazon failed to make a dent in the market and did not impress students. At Princeton, which offered a Kindle DX pilot program, students complained about the device's sluggishness and limited interactivity, according to the university's student newspaper, The Daily Princetonian. Meanwhile Apple has a deep and longstanding connection with the education market.
Bill Rankin, a professor of medieval studies at Abilene Christian University, led a pilot program where students and teachers used iPhones in the classroom. He called Apple's new education tools ''revolutionary,'' because they give users the ability to create and share books easily.
''This is something we've been dreaming about for years,'' he said. But Jill Ambrose, chief marketing officer at CourseSmart, which offers digital textbooks for the iPad, iPhone and Android devices, said it was a potential problem that Apple's textbooks would be exclusively available for Apple products.
''Based on the fact that you have to mandate a specific device, that's going to be difficult for school districts to decide students are going to take their strained budgets to purchase these devices,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philip Schiller of Apple introduced iBooks 2, from which students can now download textbooks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (92%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); CURRICULA (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



849 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: A Complex At Aqueduct Is Risk-Free, Cuomo Says

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, stung by widespread doubts about his support for the privately financed construction of the country's largest convention center at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, offered a full-throated defense of the proposal on Thursday, saying the only cost to the state if the project failed would be ''an empty building.''
Dismissing concerns about the weak economic health of the convention business, Mr. Cuomo promised that the Queens project would ''cost the State of New York bubkes,'' while freeing up for development the valuable land underneath the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan. 
In an interview with editors and writers for The New York Times, Mr. Cuomo sounded frustrated about the skeptical reaction to the convention center idea, which he proposed during his State of the State address on Jan. 4. He said the proposed development -- which would include hotels, restaurants and expanded gambling, as well as the convention center -- combined with the redevelopment of Manhattan's Far West Side, would generate jobs and significant tax revenues. And he voiced confidence in Genting, the Malaysian company that runs a gambling hall at Aqueduct and proposes to spend $4 billion on the convention center.
''What happens if they go bust?'' Mr. Cuomo asked. ''First, I say, you want government to second-guess the private sector? They've had a masterful track record, masterful. This is what they do. They do it all over the world.''
He added that the state would not offer Genting any tax-free bonds to support the project, and he said the company would have to reimburse the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for the full cost of improving subway access to the new convention center.
Mr. Cuomo dismissed concerns about its distance from Manhattan attractions. He said the complex would attract ''more of a mass, blue-collar clientele that probably wouldn't be going to the Broadway shows anyway,'' and said many of those who patronized the convention center would be arriving by plane.
At times, Mr. Cuomo seemed to distance himself from the entire matter, saying that if he had been governor in an earlier time, he would not have supported allowing gambling parlors at racetracks, or casinos on Indian reservations, but noting that those forms of gambling already exist in New York. And insisting that taxpayers have no risk in the project, he said, ''If we were investing money that we could lose, this could be a problem.''
The interview was conducted just two days after Mr. Cuomo unveiled his annual budget proposal, and he expressed some frustration with labor as he called for more rigorous evaluation of schoolteachers across the state and for a reduction in pension benefits for future public employees.
''I'm trying to build political support to counter the unions,'' Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said. He said legislators tended to test the political winds before acting, calling it an ''infuriating process.''
Mr. Cuomo, reflecting on his occasional friction with other leaders in the region, insisted, ''I get along with everybody.'' He said he had ''a fine enough relationship'' with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican. ''I like him,'' he said, smiling.
Asked if he believed that President Obama would be re-elected, Mr. Cuomo offered a reply that was both instant and succinct: ''Yes.'' He did not elaborate, but with some prodding he said, ''The Republican side has determined that their best bet is just to frustrate and stymie, and wait for the election.''
Mr. Cuomo also shied away from discussing the effort by Democrats to win a majority in the State Senate. The governor, who has worked productively with the Senate Republican majority, was asked if he would commit to backing Senate Democrats as November's elections neared. ''No,'' he responded. ''I don't want -- I won't commit to campaign or not campaign. I don't want to have any political conversation until after the governmental year.''
Mr. Cuomo said talking about campaigning would turn Albany into Washington. ''I work very hard to create a bipartisan environment and keep politics out,'' he said. ''One of the reasons we've had the success we've had is we haven't become overly political.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo defended his proposal for a convention center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); GAMING (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CASINOS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); WRITERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); BONDS (64%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



850 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Aon's Move to Britain and a Fleeting Notion of Corporate Citizenship

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Joy Ebere and Chicagoans from 45 nations jammed a federal courtroom on Tuesday to take the oath of citizenship in a poignant ceremony with children and adults proudly holding small American flags.
''I can't really explain how I feel, it's been such a long journey,'' said Ms. Ebere, a nurse who lives in Arlington Heights and the mother of four children who came from Nigeria in 2002 to seek ''a new beginning, a new life, a fulfillment of that dream.'' 
Naturalization was on my mind after Aon, the giant Chicago-bred insurance brokerage, decided to move its headquarters to London and incorporate in Britain.
Has the estimable Aon renounced its American corporate citizenship, as if it were a run-of-the-mill tax dodger who flees to the Bahamas?
Or is the whole concept of corporate citizenship folly in a global economy where shareholder value is to be maximized and union workers rail about unfair foreign trade but then run to Walmart for cheap Chinese-made goods?
Aon said it was moving 20 top executives so the company could be closer to emerging markets -- about half its revenues come from outside the Americas -- and to the major insurance center in London. This includes easy proximity to Lloyd's of London, the central insurance exchange.
There are tax advantages, including bringing overseas revenue to this country without being exposed to federal taxation. Some stock analysts say Aon can improve per-share earnings by 40 cents in 2011 and lower its long-term tax rate to rival that of Willis Group Holdings, a British competitor and namesake of the former Sears Tower.
Yet several prominent Chicago executives, all of whom have ties to Aon and declined to be identified, expressed chagrin and noted that three Aon directors abstained from the vote.
''It's extraordinary,'' one top banking official said of the abstentions, by the prominent Chicago businessmen Andrew McKenna Sr., Edgar Jannotta and John Rogers Jr. At minimum, they underscored that the argument to move was not totally persuasive.
Also notable by his silence is Patrick Ryan, Aon's retired chairman, who built the 60,000-employee company and retains 4 percent of the stock. He was said to be traveling, but those familiar with his thinking said he was not doing cartwheels.
There are good reasons -- though it is not a slam dunk -- for Aon to be in London, somewhat akin to those that brought the Boeing Company here from Seattle, given Aon's core business.
Therese McGuire, a professor of management and strategy at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern, recalled how Phil Condit, then Boeing's top official, explained to her class the advantages of being closer to crucial Chicago service providers and a huge client in Washington, the Defense Department.
But there is ''the collective choice problem,'' said Nell Minow, a Washington-based corporate governance expert and shareholder rights activist.
She means that a shareholder might be uncomfortable about the company's leaving the United States, given our rigorous disclosure laws and robust capital markets. At the same time, ''40 cents a share is not to be sneezed at.''
But there are elements to gag over, even if they are ancillary and mere reminders of how our democracy has spawned a corporate aristocracy. They include the relocation deals given to the Aon hierarchy led by Greg Case, the chief executive.
Mr. Case earned $1.5 million in salary and $17 million in stock awards last year. When Aon moves, he will receive a $135,000 ''foreign service allowance'' paid semi-monthly; a $336,000 ''annual housing allowance,'' though he must pay for any home phone and Internet access charges; a $90,000 cost-of-living allowance; and a one-time $80,000 ''relocation allowance intended to cover all miscellaneous expenses.''
Steve McGill, chief of Aon Risk Solutions, will have to somehow get by with a $90,000 cost-of living allowance, $23,000 car allowance, a one-time relocation allowance of $80,000 and a first-year bonus of $200,000, according to securities filings.
Their moves reflect the mobility of capital and labor, said M. Todd Henderson, a corporate and securities regulation expert at the University of Chicago Law School. He found my broaching the notion of corporate patriotism and citizenship to be intriguing but ambiguous. ''It's a delicate balance,'' he said.
Yes, it's an increasingly borderless world and companies will slip the bounds of geographical and political jurisdictions.
But it was still nice to see the border-driven pride of Ms. Ebere as she became a citizen, presumably without a relocation allowance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); NATURALIZATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (74%); INSURANCE (74%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (69%); TAX FRAUD (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (80%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (66%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (66%); WILLIS GROUP HOLDINGS PLC (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); WSH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



851 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: A Nuclear-Free Zone in the Middle East?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Preventing a Nuclear Iran, Peacefully,'' by Shibley Telhami and Steven Kull (Op-Ed, Jan. 16), is a counterproductive exercise that if taken seriously would increase rather than decrease the chances of military conflict.
The two ingredients that are most likely to deter Iran from going nuclear are immediate harsh sanctions aimed at the Iranian central bank and its oil sales, and the real threat of a military attack if Iran persists. 
Any path that leads Iranian leaders to think they can delay or divert such options will encourage them to move forward with their nuclear program. The notion that discussions of a nuclear-free Mideast, a worthy goal in principle, can be accomplished in a short enough time to change Iran's course is an illusion.
Moreover, there is no evidence that Iran is interested in such an achievement since Iranian leaders seem motivated toward achieving regional dominance through a nuclear capability.
The more Iran believes that the world is not truly committed to stopping it from going nuclear, the more likely that it will move forward. And it is that scenario that is most frightening and is the one that will generate the highest likelihood for military confrontation between the West and the Islamic republic.
KENNETH JACOBSON Deputy National Director Anti-Defamation League New York, Jan. 17, 2012
To the Editor:
The vision of a Middle East nuclear-weapon-free zone is a good one and should be encouraged. But Shibley Telhami and Steven Kull leave out a critical element: getting from here to there.
A nuclear-weapon-free zone will need the imprimatur of the five nuclear powers on the Security Council and a strong anchor of security, both during and after a period of negotiation.
The anchor cannot be the sole responsibility of the United States and its putative ''nuclear umbrella.'' A better provider would be NATO, acting under a United Nations mandate. Doing so would be consistent with NATO's aim of reducing the scope of its conventional military interventions in favor of extending its deterrent to neighboring regions.
This would be in the interest of both NATO and its neighbors. And it would help remove discussion of nuclear weapons in the Middle East from the realm of theology to one of utility and real security.
KENNETH WEISBRODE Boston, Jan. 16, 2012
To the Editor:
The prevailing international consensus that Israel can possess a nuclear arsenal, while Iran is not allowed to, is indeed a double standard and an obstacle to Middle East peace efforts. Economic sanctions or military action won't derail Iran's nuclear ambitions, which date from the time of the shah and reflect the country's bad geopolitical neighborhood.
Moreover, destroying or crippling Iran's uranium-enrichment facilities could prompt it to seek a nuclear weapon or the means to make one on the black market, if it has not already done so.
Shibley Telhami and Steven Kull are correct that the principle of a nuclear-free zone must underlie a regional peace settlement, though ending support for Hezbollah and Palestinian rejectionist groups and recognizing Israel's right to exist are also minimum imperatives.
RENS LEE Washington, Jan. 16, 2012
The writer is a senior fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute.
To the Editor:
No one would suggest that the path to a nuclear-free North Korea requires that China and the United States agree to an Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone. Iran's truculent behavior and threats should not be rewarded by forcing Israel to surrender its policy of opaque nuclear deterrence.
DANIEL WOLF Teaneck, N.J., Jan. 16, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); RELIGION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



852 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise for a 3rd Day on Bank Earnings

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose for the third straight day Thursday, helped by results from Bank of America and Morgan Stanley and a report showing that the latest jobless claims dropped to a near four-year low. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hit a five-month high, with the industrials, consumer discretionary stocks and financials leading gains.
Tech shares advanced, with earnings from a number of bellwether companies expected after the close. But those reports were mixed. Google fell short of Wall Street's expectations, and its shares dropped 10 percent in after-hours trading.
''Google was the big disappointment because so much of their emphasis is developing products, specifically Android, where more dollars are going out than they anticipated,'' said Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh.
In the regular session, Bank of America climbed 2.4 percent to $6.96 after it reported a fourth-quarter profit from a loss a year earlier. Morgan Stanley reported a loss that was narrower than expected, prompting a 5.4 percent jump in its stock to $18.28.
Financial stocks ''have pretty much bottomed here in the U.S.,'' said Paul J. Simon, chief investment officer at Tactical Allocation Group in Birmingham, Mich.
''They represent some compelling value. We think a lot of the bad news has been discounted, and you've seen stock prices rallying in the beginning of the year,'' said Mr. Simon, whose firm has been buying financials.
Financial shares have rallied this year. The S.& P. financial index is up 8.1 percent for 2012, helping to push the S.& P. 500 up 4.5 percent for the year.
In the latest snapshot of the economy, data showed the number of Americans filing for new jobless benefits dropped last week to the fewest since April 2008. It added to views that the economy is slowly advancing.
''The broad-brush impression from the data is that it's a Goldilocks setup -- inflation tame, but economic growth showing signs of accelerating,'' said Greg Anderson, senior currency strategist at Citigroup in New York.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 45.03 points, or 0.36 percent, to end at 12,623.98. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.46 points, or 0.49 percent, to 1,314.50. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 18.62 points, or 0.67 percent, to close at 2,788.33.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 24/32, to 100 5/32. The yield rose to 1.98 percent, from 1.90 percent late Wednesday.
American Express also posted results after the close, and its shares slid 1.9 percent in extended trading to $49.98.
In a sign of optimism about Europe, Spain and France drew strong demand at government debt auctions.
The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares closed up 1.1 percent at 1,046.30, near five-and-a-half-month highs. World stocks, as measured by the MSCI All World index, rose 0.9 percent to hit two-and-a-half-month highs.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (64%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



853 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: A Jedi of Deals Brings His Magic Back to Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Charles Cory, a longtime Morgan Stanley deal maker, spent the financial crisis cloistered in academia, working as a law professor at the University of Virginia.
But Wall Street came calling last year. With merger activity picking up, Paul J. Taubman, the co-president of Morgan Stanley's securities business, spoke to Mr. Cory to persuade him to come back full time, even sending e-mails during Mr. Cory's family vacation to Tuscany.
''Taubman said, 'This assignment will be good for you, and it will be good for Morgan Stanley,''' said Mr. Cory. 
In September, he moved back to Menlo Park, Calif., to help run the firm's technology banking practice. Since then, he has led a flurry of deals. In October, he represented RightNow Technologies in its sale to Oracle for $1.5 billion. He advised SuccessFactors, which was bought for $3.4 billion by SAP in a rich deal valued at roughly 10 times projected sales.
''As activity heats up, we wanted to have the most effective, senior tech bankers in the Valley,'' said Mr. Taubman, who has known Mr. Cory for decades.
As Mr. Cory sees it, the industry is at the start of another bull market for mergers and acquisitions. Last year, deal volume in the sector jumped more than 26.9 percent, to $190.6 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
He has historical perspective. In his 30 years with Morgan Stanley, he has handled more than 300 deals, including the breakup of AT&T in 1984.
''There are tectonic shifts going on, and the older companies need to figure out how to play,'' said Mr. Cory, 56.
Mr. Cory, who restores historic homes in his spare time, has a knack for rebuilding.
In 1996, after the abrupt departure of the star banker Frank Quattrone, Morgan Stanley tapped him to shore up its Menlo Park office. He had to start from scratch; Mr. Quattrone gutted the staff on his way to a smaller rival, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. He asked three Manhattan-based bankers to relocate and then helped fill out the rest of the team.
The first year post-Quattrone was brutal, with the firm's share of the tech mergers-and-acquisitions market plunging from 62 percent for the previous year to 16 percent, according to data provided by Morgan Stanley. But by 1998, the firm had largely bounced back, accounting for nearly half of the market activity.
While deal-making was derailed by the dot-com bust that soon followed, a wave of consolidation began sweeping the enterprise software industry in 2003. PeopleSoft announced its $1.7 billion acquisition of rival J.D. Edwards.
The J.D. Edwards deal, advised by Morgan Stanley, led Oracle to submit a hostile bid for PeopleSoft just days later. In the ensuing years, Mr. Cory's team went on to advise several multibillion-dollar transactions, representing Oracle when it bought Siebel Systems in 2005 and Hyperion when it was sold to Oracle in 2007.
But after many years with the firm, Mr. Cory decided to take a sabbatical, just as the financial crisis was unfolding. He returned to his alma mater, the University of Virginia School of Law, to teach a course on acquisitions and another called ''A (Necessarily) Brief Introduction to the Capital Markets.'' Still, he remained a banker-on-call, occasionally tapped to pinch-hit on deals and call old clients.
Now, the elder statesman is officially back - a homecoming his colleagues have affectionately called ''the return of the Jedi.'' As the chairman of global tech banking, he is mainly focused on client relationships. He leaves the day-to-day operations to the co-heads of the group, Michael Grimes and Paul Chamberlain.
He is spending more time on the enterprise market. Many upstarts that went public from 2006 to 2008 are now contemplating whether they should merge with larger companies. At the same time, potential suitors - enterprise giants flush with cash - are seeking technologies to adjust to new trends, like the rise of Web-based, or cloud-computing, services.
Traditionally, the enterprise market has been dominated by installed software, which typically involves big upfront fees and recurring maintenance needs. Now, more businesses are migrating to cloud services that are easy to scale and allow clients to pay based on usage.
''Everyone is motivated to do a deal,'' said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities. ''The sellers are motivated because despite the fact that they are gaining market share, they are under tremendous margin pressure to build out their sales force.''
Oracle, a company that once scoffed at its cloud-based competitors, has ramped up efforts to expand its footprint in the area. Its acquisition of RightNow in October pressured SAP to close a large transaction in that field, which set up its acquisition for SuccessFactors two months later.
''SAP is the biggest player in on-premise software, and even they decided they needed to get a better platform for the cloud,'' Mr. Cory said.
As always, competition remains fierce. In telecommunications, media and technology deals, Morgan Stanley had the highest total in fees last year, at $357.6 million, according Thompson Reuters. But Goldman advised the most transactions, with a deal volume of $106 billion.
There's also the risk that Morgan Stanley could falter if one of its top bankers flees. Mr. Grimes - who has been with the firm since 1995 and led the I.P.O.'s of Zynga, LinkedIn and Groupon - is considered to be a star in his own right.
Mr. Cory is confident in the firm's prospects. The banker, a Facebook and Xbox user, says the business still comes down to textbook basics: relationships and sector knowledge.
In September, the chief of SuccessFactors, Lars Dalgaard, called Morgan Stanley, the firm that helped his company go public in 2007.
Less than an hour later, the bankers pulled up to the lobby of a Sheraton hotel near San Francisco. Unknown to them, Mr. Dalgaard was waiting upstairs, with a bid from SAP.
After reviewing the offer, the team - led by Mr. Cory and a top deputy, Owen O'Keeffe - discussed the assets of SuccessFactors, the merits of the deal and comparable transactions.
''They are skillful presenters - maybe a little McKinsey. They can show you what a company needs to do in a couple of slides,'' Mr. Dalgaard said in a recent interview, referring to the giant consulting firm. ''Chuck and Owen made it easy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Last fall, Charles Cory moved to Menlo Park, Calif., to help run Morgan Stanley's technology banking practice, where he has led a flurry of deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); HISTORY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); RELOCATIONS (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); ORACLE CORP (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); SUCCESSFACTORS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



854 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Military-Related Investments

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your otherwise excellent article ''A Shrinking Military Budget May Take Neighbors With It'' (''The Next War'' series, front page, Jan. 7) left unchallenged the assertion that federal spending in areas like green jobs bears more economic fruit than defense-related investments. 
First, these comparisons are usually apples to oranges and include personnel costs, overseas bases and the like -- budget items not intended to create jobs.
When we directly compare, buck for buck, research and development and other investments, defense-related investments generate far more groundbreaking advances. They range from the Internet and laser eye surgery technologies to scores of our most significant technological advances like GPS and the breast-cancer vaccine just announced.
Second, unlike much civilian R.&D. in industries such as green energy, the private-sector investment in cutting-edge defense and aerospace technologies would not occur but for a long-term and reliable government partner.
Third, defense-related R.&D. spending represents just 2 percent of the federal budget and half a percent of gross domestic product. With countries like Russia and others ramping up military investments, this should be of great concern.
Fourth, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta says significant further cuts in defense would raise unemployment by a full percentage point.
Finally, unlike civilian investments, defense-related investments fulfill one of the primary purposes of the federal government: to keep our nation secure.
MARION C. BLAKEY President and Chief Executive Aerospace Industries Association Arlington, Va., Jan. 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AVIONICS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); MEDICAL LASERS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (55%); LASER EYE SURGERY (55%); VACCINES (54%); BREAST CANCER (54%); CANCER DRUGS (54%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



855 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: GTT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI. 
mhoinski@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
Our quirky, discerning picks for the most interesting things to do around the state this week.
DALLAS
Higher Ground
The neo-soul singer Erykah Badu likes to provoke. She hosted a BBC Radio series on the Black Power Movement earlier this month, led a ''second line'' down Dallas's Main Street with the Rebirth Brass Band on Saturday, and, in 2010, stripped in a music video shot in Dealey Plaza, where President Kennedy was assassinated.
She could survive on her exceptional singing alone, but why would she deprive her audience of an impromptu political diatribe, a blissed-out 20-minute jam or a potential epic meltdown? 
Ms. Badu, a graduate of Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Dallas, has a new backing band called the Cannabinoids, a collective she has played with since her college days but only recently formalized into something official. THC, the agent in marijuana that gets you high, is a cannabinoid, so expect a lot of stoned grooves from Ms. Badu and her people as they work through material from their forthcoming album.
Granada Theater, Jan. 20, 8 p.m. baduworld.com
MCKINNEY
Women's Ad-Lib
Laura Bartlett is the token comedian in a family of doctors. ''The joke is that I dispense medicine through laughter,'' she said.
Though funny by night, Ms. Bartlett is serious by day, working as a banker. This everywoman approach to stand-up is the basis for Four Funny Females, which also includes Linda Stogner, a filmmaker; Jodi Hadsell, a corporate learning consultant; and Sherry Belle, a marketing executive.
''It's become a grassroots movement to get women laughing again,'' Ms. Bartlett said. ''I think that there's more of a need to laugh now than ever before, with the economy and the long war and people being laid off.''
While the show would seem like a male-bashing session, it sold out in November on the strength of riffs on personal and family life. For example, Ms. Stogner jokes about being adopted, and Ms. Bartlett injects humor into her past bout with cancer. If you are longing for the sisterhood lost by the departure of Oprah, then get found here.
McKinney Performing Arts Center, Jan. 21, 8 p.m. mckinneytexas.org
SAN ANTONIO
Black Is Back
As last season's ''Celebrity Apprentice'' showed, Clint Black, the other man-in-black country musician, is a businessman first. He immediately understood the importance of the bottom line in a successful career: according to his Web site, his album ''Killin' Time'' generated five No. 1 hits, unprecedented for a debut in any genre.
Mr. Black, a native of Katy, will turn 50 in February, and he is celebrating early by entering the studio this month to record his first album in five years. On his Facebook page, he wrote, ''Two of the songs are from a very special project I was asked to write a 'story album' for. (Mysteriously vague!)''
It would seem Mr. Black's Saturday show, the last Texas date on his current tour, would be where part of this mystery could be revealed.
Freeman Coliseum, Jan. 21, 7 p.m. clintblack.com
AUSTIN
International Relations
Keija Parssinen could teach us about tolerance. Born and raised an ''oil brat'' by American parents in the violent Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia, she has a unique perspective that might help people understand why terrorists do the things they do.
''I feel like prior to 9/11, I had been very naive about the relationship between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia,'' Ms. Parssinen said. ''I had this romantic vision because of my family's wonderful Saudi friends. And so when 9/11 happened, and I learned that many of the terrorists were Saudi, I felt very betrayed. Why are they doing this? There must be some good justification.''
''The Ruins of Us'' -- Ms. Parssinen's book about a family living in Saudi Arabia that comes undone amid polygamy, expatriotism and radicalism -- is not a justification for those acts, but it helped the author to process the event and find her voice. Ms. Parssinen wrote the lauded debut novel well after her family moved back to the United States and settled in Austin. At her homecoming reading, she intends to read a passage from the book that involves Austin.
BookPeople, Jan. 21, 4 p.m. keijaparssinen.com
HOUSTON
Slam Dunk
If it's getting hard to justify paying escalating ticket prices to N.B.A. games to support the players' ridiculous salaries, participate in the 10th Annual Rockets Run and score a free ticket to see the Houston Rockets -- minus the registration fee, of course, which benefits Autism Speaks.
Toyota Center, Jan. 21, 6:30 a.m. nba.com/rockets
SAN ANTONIO
All Aboard
Before trains go the way of dinosaurs, hop aboard the Amtrak Exhibit Train, a vintage locomotive celebrating the carrier's 40th anniversary, and learn how San Antonio, the hub for the regional cattle industry, played an integral role in the dawn of this new mode of transportation.
San Antonio Amtrak, Jan. 21-22, 10 a.m. amtrak40th.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A traveling exhibit train for Amtrak's 40th anniversary stops in San Antonio on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORT WORTH TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); FILM (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); MEN (75%); VISUAL ARTS (74%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); FAMILY (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); CANCER (65%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



856 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Romanian Protesters Urge Government's Ouster

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Mihai Radu contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BUCHAREST, Romania -- Thousands of protesters gathered in Romania's capital on Thursday to demand the ouster of the government and new elections, as a week of demonstrations against far-reaching austerity measures and years of difficult reforms seemed to gain strength.
Economic frustrations have spilled into the streets here, as they have in Spain and Greece. Protesters in University Square downtown shouted chants calling for the resignation of President Traian Basescu and his ally, Prime Minister Emil Boc. 
Around 11 p.m. several demonstrators began dragging metal barricades into the street, and some hurled bottles and other objects at the police. Hundreds of riot police officers in black ski masks moved in, clearing the square and nearby streets. Fifty-five people were arrested, and five were treated for injuries, according to Realitatea TV.
The demonstrations were reminiscent of Sunday's protests, which turned violent, with demonstrators smashing store windows, setting newsstands on fire and throwing stones at police officers, who dispersed the crowds with tear gas and arrested dozens of people.
The wave of protests, which have spread across the country, broke out after a popular health official resigned last week over government proposals to overhaul the health-care system. The official was reinstated this week, and a controversial proposal to partly privatize the medical emergency-response system has been shelved for now, but the protests have continued.
''I want the president to resign, the prime minister to resign and the entire government to be replaced with experts who are not involved in politics,'' said Mihaela Leonte, 31, a hairstylist who joined the raucous crowd in the square in Bucharest on Thursday night. The dispute over the health overhaul ''was the final straw,'' said Ms. Leonte, who held a picture of President Basescu with the nose of a pig superimposed on his face. ''But it is more than that. People are determined.''
Protesters focused much of their anger on Mr. Basescu, a former ship captain whose leadership style has been widely criticized as increasingly authoritarian. They cited cuts to government salaries, frozen pensions and an increase in the value-added tax, as well as what they said was deep-seated corruption and a broader sense that the government served only its own interests and those of its richest constituents.
Many of the same broad themes have been voiced by demonstrators in countries as diverse as Israel and India, from the ''indignados,'' or outraged, in Spain to the Occupy Wall Street protests that started in New York and spread around the world.
In Romania, news media reported that the unrest had spread over the past week to about 60 cities nationwide. About 7,000 people turned up at a rally in Bucharest on Thursday organized by the opposition National Liberal Party, according to the Ministry of the Interior, and the crowd in the downtown square later was said to number about 1,500.
Romania had to turn to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Union in 2009 for 20 billion euros in emergency loans (about $27 billion at the exchange rates then). In response the government took tough steps to rein in the budget deficit, which was 7.3 percent of gross domestic product that year. Without the spending cuts and tax increases, that could have risen to 13.7 percent in 2010, according to Andreea Paul, an economic adviser to Mr. Boc. Instead the deficit was cut to 6.9 percent in 2010 and an estimated 4.2 percent in 2011, and the economy began to grow again.
''It was not easy at all, politically speaking, but these are times when political leaders separate themselves from demagogic politicians,'' said Ms. Paul, who placed blame for the protests on opposition parties trying to drum up discontent in an election year.
Laura Stefan, a senior analyst at the Expert Forum, a research institute in Bucharest, disputed the government's characterization of the demonstrations as driven by the opposition parties. ''Economically, those were sound decisions taken by the government, but that doesn't mean people were happy with them,'' Ms. Stefan said. ''It's not at all an attempt to change the government for the opposition, but people saying that all parties are just as dirty.''
Octavian Caldararu, 75, a retired construction worker, said he was not a member of any party but took part in the opposition rally at Bucharest's triumphal arch, modeled after the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, to show his displeasure with the direction the country had taken in recent years. ''I took part in the revolution in 1989'' against the dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, Mr. Caldararu said, ''and the ideals of the revolution have not only been forgotten, they have been broken.''
Mr. Ceausescu and his wife were executed on Dec. 25, 1989. Since then, Romania has made significant strides, joining the European Union and NATO. But the recession in the wake of the global financial crisis struck the country of 22 million particularly hard. And even as the economy has recovered here, some Romanians who used to work in other European Union countries whose economies have slowed, particularly Spain and Italy, have been forced to come home, making the search for jobs even harder for the long-term unemployed.
Alexandru Dragan, 46, an electro-technician, said he had been unemployed since 2009 despite having a lengthy resume and work experience in Germany.
''Regular Romanian citizens who are not a part of any political party should be asked about new laws,'' Mr. Dragan said. ''If we look at the people, we can find smarter individuals than the ones in the current government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of Romanians in central Bucharest vented their economic frustrations on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOGDAN CRISTEL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); RIOTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); ARRESTS (75%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); VALUE ADDED TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ROMANIA (99%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



857 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: A Free Legal Clinic That Opens When Class Is Over

BYLINE: By PAUL ENGLEMAN. 
paulbarb@speakeasy.net

 BODY:
Soon after Dennis Kass started teaching history at a small high school in Little Village four years ago, he put his law degree to use, dispensing free legal advice to students and their families after school. That modest beginning has evolved into the Chicago Law and Education Foundation, a free clinic that has now expanded to eight additional city high schools.
Mr. Kass, 35, estimated that he handled about 100 legal cases last year and said the foundation had helped thousands of people by distributing brochures and answering questions at open houses. 
The foundation is based at Mr. Kass's own school, Infinity Math, Science and Technology High School, one of four high schools that are part of the Little Village Lawndale High School campus. The location makes sense, Mr. Kass said, because public schools were an ideal place to provide legal services to low-income families.
Mr. Kass described the foundation's legal work as ''triage,'' and used his fingers to tick off the issues that have come to his attention: ''My uncle got arrested, the landlord says we have to move, my mom's boyfriend beat her up, domestic abuse, orders of protection, immigration, homelessness,'' he said. ''Sometimes I have to say there's nothing I can do. Sadly, anything I do is better than what they had.''
Many people he worked with did not realize that their problems had legal remedies, Mr. Kass said. ''They associate legal problems with being arrested. Half of what we do is telling people what their rights are.''
Madilyn Soch, an art teacher at Little Village Lawndale, said five students from her home room had received advice from Mr. Kass this school year. ''After these kids have seen Dennis, you can see their relief -- physically,'' she said. ''The work he's doing transforms lives.''
Cadmiel Avendano, a 2010 Little Village Lawndale graduate, agreed. Mr. Avendano, who is now a chemical engineering student at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said his parents had saved enough to buy a house in 2006 but did not realize their mortgage had a variable interest rate. When they fell behind on their payments and the bank threatened foreclosure in 2010, Mr. Kass referred them to an agency that helped with the paperwork for a loan modification.
''My parents never would have known it was possible to do that,'' Mr. Avendano said. ''They got a lower interest rate and we were able to stay in our home. If it hadn't been for the clinic, they would have lost their house and I wouldn't be in college.''
The foundation runs on a shoestring. The 2011 operating budget was about $3,000, nearly all of it paid for by the Crossroads Fund, a Chicago foundation that provides small grants to community organizations. The foundation does not receive any money from Chicago Public Schools, according to Mr. Kass and Patricia Brekke, the principal at Infinity. Mr. Kass relies on four volunteer lawyers and Cora Moy, a law student who maintains the foundation's bilingual Web site, to keep the group running.
Mr. Kass's short-term goal is to raise $50,000 to hire a lawyer to direct the organization, allowing him more time to teach, run the clinic at Little Village Lawndale and serve as the faculty adviser for Model United Nations.
Mr. Kass, who grew up on the Northwest Side, said his interest in social justice stemmed from an injury to his pitching arm when he was 7. ''I had to move to second base,'' he said. ''I learned everything I could about the greatest second baseman of all time, Jackie Robinson.''
The story of the man who broke through baseball's color barrier was more influential to his life, Mr. Kass said, than the situation playing out in his neighborhood, where teenagers armed with pipes would taunt and chase black children who attended the local elementary school. Once an indifferent student, Mr. Kass said he came to appreciate academic life at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He received a master's degree in education at Michigan and a law degree at DePaul.
''The kids love Dennis as a teacher, even though he pushes them,'' said Ms. Soch, the art teacher. ''He has the same expectations for all of them, and that earns their respect. He knows what it's like to deal with gangs, what it's like to live in an urban environment, so the kids connect to him on that level, too.''
Much of the clinic's work is referrals. The foundation has partnerships with DePaul's Center for Public Interest Law, the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, and First Defense Legal Aid.
''There are organizations and lawyers willing to provide aid to the poor,'' Mr. Kass said, ''but they don't have access to each other. This is a way of bringing legal services to where poor people are -- in the schools.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis Kass working on a project with students. His foundation offers free legal advice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (75%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); ARRESTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); IMMIGRATION (51%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



858 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Weak Holiday PC Sales Hurt Profit at Microsoft

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Weak sales of personal computers made for a tough holiday selling season for Microsoft.
The results, released Thursday after the markets closed, are a sign of the challenges that Microsoft, which is based in Redmond, Wash., faces as it tries to adapt to deep changes in the technology industry. While Microsoft continues to reap profits from products like Windows and Office, growth is shifting away from the personal computer industry on which those two software franchises rest toward mobile devices like tablets and smartphones.
The company said net income in its second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, declined slightly to $6.62 billion, or 78 cents a share, from $6.63 billion in the year-earlier period. The company said revenue was up 5 percent at $20.89 billion. 
The earnings exceeded the expectations of Wall Street analysts, who had predicted 76 cents a share, though Microsoft fell short of their revenue forecast of $20.93 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
The PC market is looking increasingly shaky. Microsoft said revenue from Windows, one of the pillars of its profits, fell 6 percent, to $4.74 billion, in the quarter.
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, said that most analysts had braced for poor Windows sales but that the actual numbers were worse than most had expected.
''We were negative 4 percent, and they still missed,'' he said.
In an interview, Microsoft's chief financial officer, Peter S. Klein, said the decline in Windows sales was the result of problems in the consumer market, not purchases of PCs by businesses, which continued to grow during the quarter. He said the sales of the inexpensive laptops known as netbooks were especially bad, falling to 2 percent of worldwide consumer PC shipments in the quarter, from 8 percent a year earlier.
Worldwide shipments of PCs fell 0.2 percent during the fourth quarter from the year-earlier period, while PC shipments in the United States fell 5 percent for all of 2011, the worst showing since 2001, according to the International Data Corporation. IDC attributed the anemic results to weak economic conditions and shortages of hard disks caused by flooding in Thailand, a manufacturing center for those devices.
The weakness in Microsoft's report also reflects competition from cellphones and tablets like Apple's iPad.
After stumbling in mobile phones and tablets in recent years, Microsoft finally has software products for these devices that are winning positive early reviews. But Microsoft's tablet and cellphone plans have not yet begun to produce big sales.
The company released its redesigned mobile operating system, Windows Phone, in fall 2010, but the first smartphones that used the software were lackluster and had tepid support from wireless carriers. Microsoft is betting that a partnership with Nokia, the Finnish cellphone maker, will help turn around its mobile business. The first devices from their collaboration went on sale only recently.
Meanwhile, Apple's iPhone and smartphones based on Google's Android operating system are devouring most of the market. During the fourth quarter, Android phones accounted for 51.7 percent of the smartphones acquired by United States consumers within three months, while the iPhone accounted for 37 percent, according to estimates by Nielsen. Phones running Microsoft software, including an older operating system it is no longer developing, accounted for 3.8 percent, Nielsen said.
Microsoft is also developing a new version of its flagship operating system, Windows 8, to run tablet computers. Early test versions of the software have been praised by developers and technophiles. The software is not expected to go on sale until late this year, though.
Other parts of Microsoft's business are performing well, especially its entertainment and devices division, dominated by sales of the Xbox video game system and related products. Revenue from that division grew 15 percent to $4.24 billion from the year-earlier period, reflecting strong sales of the Xbox 360 console, the Kinect game sensor and the Xbox Live online game service.
Another standout was Microsoft's server and tools division, which sells databases and other software to businesses. That division's sales rose 11 percent, to $4.77 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Ballmer, Microsoft chief executive, spoke about a Nokia smartphone last week at an electronics show. Microsoft hopes its Nokia partnership will help turn its mobile business around. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (94%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SHIPMENTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); APPLE INC (84%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (63%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



859 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: In a Family Emergency, $204 and Help With Red Tape

BYLINE: By JOHN OTIS

 BODY:
Last winter, when Salena Johnson had no money, her two young sons missed school for a week.
''They don't really like to stay home,'' Ms. Johnson, 42, said. ''Even if they're sick, they still want to come to school, and I have to tell them they can't let the other kids get sick.''
For the past several years, Ms. Johnson, a mother of six whose other children are all grown, has relied on public assistance to help make ends meet and rear her youngest sons, Taquan, 10, and Jamir, 12, in the Bronx. She was laid off from her job as a home care aide at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx in 2006 and has not found work since.
''Once I pay my light and gas bill, I really don't have too much left,'' said Ms. Johnson, who lives in the Morrisania section. Her youngest sons' father has at times provided financial help, but it has been inconsistent, Ms. Johnson said. 
Her sons, however, have had full and active lives, thanks in large part to the Children's Aid Society's Community Schools program at Public School 50 in East Harlem, where they have been enrolled for five years. Ms. Johnson said none of the schools in her neighborhood compared with what P.S. 50 offered the boys, so they take two trains to school in Manhattan.
Not only does the program offer academic support and health services, she said, but the after-school programs also have allowed her sons to nurture their passions for basketball and art. Ms. Johnson also credits the social workers in the program with helping her sons -- and her -- work through the grief and trauma of watching her brother drown six years ago.
Ms. Johnson and her children had ridden by bus to North Carolina, excited about a planned family reunion.
The first order of business upon arriving at their hotel was a swim in its pool. But Ms. Johnson's brother, Karlef Johnson, 28, who she said was a poor swimmer, apparently misjudged the depth of the pool, and minutes after entering the water, he drowned.
Ms. Johnson and her children witnessed his final moments.
The death was particularly hard on Taquan and Jamir, Ms. Johnson said. Their uncle had been a father figure to the boys.
''After that, they didn't want to go into the water anymore,'' she said. ''They didn't want to talk. They didn't want to do anything.''
Ms. Johnson said the after-school program at P.S. 50, along with the counselors, helped the boys heal. She has become an active volunteer in the program, reporting to the school every weekday at 3 p.m. even as she tries to find a job. She approached BronxWorks, an organization that helps individuals and families improve their economic situations, and it is helping her hunt for work, she said.
Ms. Johnson pays $139 a month in rent, with Section 8 housing subsidies accounting for the rest. She also receives $526 a month in food stamps. Last winter, a clerical glitch in the city's system resulted in the erroneous suspension of her benefits, including her food stamps, she said. Without enough money to afford even a MetroCard, she could not get her sons to school.
Ms. Johnson turned to Jeanette Then, the Children's Aid Society's community school director at P.S. 50, who worked with the Human Resources Administration to resolve the problem and get her benefits restored.
The society, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, also drew $204 from the fund to give Ms. Johnson food coupons and a 30-day MetroCard.
Ms. Johnson said the agency had made a big difference in her children's lives, noting that the program had been especially beneficial for Taquan's social skills.
''He used to always stay to himself after what happened,'' she said of the drowning. ''I really wanted him to get involved with more things and really come out, and he has.''
The boys have even gone back into the water during the summer, Ms. Johnson said.
''They swim, so they're able to help if the same thing happens to somebody else,'' she said. ''My kids love to help other kids.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com/ neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13- 6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Salena Johnson said the Children's Aid Society made a big difference in the lives of her sons Taquan, 10, left, and Jamir, 12. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $6,118,465, Recorded Wed. 275, Total $6,118,740, Last year to date $5,744,187 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); MEN (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); CHILD WELFARE (75%); BASKETBALL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



860 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Why Taxes Aren't as High as They Seem

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When people heard that Mitt Romney's federal income tax rate was about 15 percent, the immediate reaction of many was to assume that their own rate was higher. The top marginal rate is 35 percent, after all, and the marginal rate on a couple with $70,000 in taxable income is 25 percent.
The truth is that most households probably pay a lower rate than Mr. Romney. It is impossible to know for sure, given that he has yet to release his tax return. What is clear, though, is that a large majority of American households -- about two out of three -- pays less than 15 percent of income to the federal government, through either income taxes or payroll taxes. 
This disconnect between what we pay and what we think we pay is nothing less than one of the country's biggest economic problems.
Many Americans see themselves as struggling under the weight of a heavy tax burden (partly for the understandable reason that wage growth has been so weak). Yet taxes in the United States are quite low today, compared with past years or those in other countries. Most important, American taxes are not sufficient to pay for the programs that many people want, like Medicare, Social Security, road construction and education subsidies.
What does this combination create? An enormous long-term budget deficit.
Together, all federal taxes equaled 14.4 percent of the nation's economic output last year, the lowest level since 1950. Add state and local taxes, and the share nearly doubles, to about 27 percent, according to the Tax Policy Center in Washington -- still lower than at almost any other point in the last 40 years.
As the economy recovers and incomes rise, tax payments will increase somewhat. But they will not keep pace with projected spending, in the form of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. And total taxes at current rates would still make up a smaller share of the economy than in virtually any other rich country -- not just European nations but also Australia, Canada, Israel and New Zealand.
Obviously, tax increases are not the only way to solve the deficit. Spending cuts can, too. But so far, at least, many voters seem to prefer small, symbolic cuts, like those to foreign aid. Substantial cuts -- be they the changes to Medicare that President Obama included in his health care bill or the Medicare overhaul that Republicans prefer -- tend to be politically unpopular.
Since the late 1970s, just before the modern tax-cutting push began, total federal tax rates have fallen for every income group. The payroll tax has risen, but declines in the income tax have more than made up for those increases. Nearly half the population now pays no federal income tax.
All told, most households pay less than 15 percent of their income to the federal government because of tax breaks, like the exclusion for health insurance, and because marginal rates apply to only a small part of a taxpayer's income. On the first $70,000 of a couple's taxable income, the total federal income tax rate is only 13.8 percent.
That said, taxes have fallen the most for the very affluent. Mr. Romney and his father -- George W. Romney, the former automobile executive, Michigan governor and presidential candidate -- do a nice job of illustrating the change.
The elder Mr. Romney, who died in 1995, paid an average federal tax rate of 37 percent in the 12 years for which he released his tax returns, according to an analysis by Joseph J. Thorndike, a columnist for Tax Notes magazine. Mitt Romney's tax rate has been far lower, thanks mostly to the decline in taxes on stocks and other investments. The top marginal tax rate on ordinary income has also fallen sharply.
And George Romney paid a lower tax rate than most affluent Americans in the 1950s and '60s, mainly because of deductions for his large donations to the Mormon Church. Then, a typical household near the very top of the income distribution would have paid almost 50 percent of its income in direct federal taxes, research by the economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty has shown.
In recent years, that number has been below 30 percent.
Besides the drop in tax rates, affluent households have benefited disproportionately from tax breaks and deductions. The mortgage interest deduction, widely considered a middle-class benefit, actually saves a typical middle-income household only about $200 a year, because so many families claim the standard deduction, rather than itemized ones. The average family in the top 1 percent saves more than $5,000 from the mortgage deduction.
Such breaks are probably one reason that so many people feel as if their own taxes are such a burden: they have a sense, and not incorrectly, that others are benefiting from tax breaks unavailable to them. ''If we had a simpler tax code,'' said Roberton Williams of the Tax Policy Center, ''people might be more accepting of what they pay.''
The group for which tax rates have fallen the least is the upper middle class: those households earning between about $75,000 and $300,000 a year. Their tax rates have declined over the past few decades, but only by a couple of percentage points.
Of course, many of the people who talk publicly about taxes -- economists, policy experts, journalists -- happen to fall into this group, which may be yet another reason that the public debate does not always match reality.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Lower Levels: Taxes and government benefits both rose in the decades just after World War II. In recent decades, the cost of many benefits has continued rising, while tax revenues have fallen. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis via Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); MEDICARE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); WORLD WAR II (59%); MEDICAID (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



861 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Syria's Rising Toll

 BODY:
The death toll from the brutal 10-month war by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria against his own people is now more than 5,400, according to the United Nations and others. Yet the international community still has not mustered the tough pressure that might force Mr. Assad to stop the killing, or Syria's Army and business elite to toss him out. 
For months, Russia has been blocking the United Nations Security Council from imposing any serious punishments. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is far more interested in selling arms to Syria and thwarting democratic forces and their Western backers.
On Monday, Russia proposed a shamefully weak resolution that put equal blame on the protesters and the Syrian Army for the violence and made no mention of sanctions. The United States and other members are trying to toughen it up, but we are not optimistic.
That means it is up to Arab League ministers who need to recognize that the time for the Syrian dictator to go has long past. With his butchery, Mr. Assad has made clear that there is no compromise or deal to be had -- and he has made clear his contempt for the Arab League's efforts to broker peace.
When they meet this weekend in Cairo, the ministers should agree to pull out their failed monitoring mission and impose the sanctions that they originally approved in November and then suspended, including a freeze on Syrian government assets in Arab countries and a ban on transactions with Syria's central bank. The league should also insist that the Security Council do the same.
The European Union's oil embargo and an American and European ban on business with Syria's main commercial bank, in particular, have hit the economy hard. When the European Union meets on Monday, it is expected to place asset freezes and visa bans on 22 more individuals and eight more companies connected to the government. There is little chance of changing Mr. Assad's mind. But, in time, such pressure could persuade army and business elites to abandon the Assad government.
World leaders must keep speaking out against the slaughter as President Obama did on Tuesday when he met with King Abdullah II of Jordan at the White House. He decried the ''terrible brutality'' in Syria and pledged to redouble efforts to force Mr. Assad out.
There is no easy solution. But the international community needs to exert whatever diplomatic and economic pressure it can to make clear to Mr. Assad and his cronies that their time has run out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); APPROVALS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (77%) SYRIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); JORDAN (79%); EGYPT (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



862 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: U.S. General Visits Israel For Discussions on Iran

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, arrived in Israel on Thursday for a 24-hour visit with the country's top leaders that is expected to focus on Iran's nuclear program as well as the challenges posed by the past year's regional upheavals and the American military exit from Iraq.
This is General Dempsey's first visit to Israel since taking over as chairman in October, and he is to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Shimon Peres, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz, the military chief of staff. He will also visit Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial and museum. He arrives after a visit to Europe. 
Israel and the United States both say that Iran is pursuing the building of nuclear weapons -- an assertion denied by Tehran -- but they have had differing views on how aggressive the pursuit has been and what should be done about it. Both countries say that if Iran achieved that goal it would pose enormous dangers to them, their allies and Iran's neighbors and would set off a lethal nuclear arms race in a highly unstable region. Both say they are committed to preventing Iran from building nuclear weapons.
Israel has frequently raised the possibility of military action against Iran if other means fail to halt Tehran's nuclear work, but it would prefer to have the United States take the lead.
The Americans, while agreeing that force could be a last resort, have said that the first steps must be diplomacy and sanctions. Israel has publicly agreed that if sanctions are sufficiently tough, they could have the desired effect because the Iranian economy is shaky and the government may well respond to such measures.
Mr. Netanyahu said last week that he noticed that Iran was wobbling under the current sanctions and then said later that even stronger ones were needed. And Mr. Barak said on Wednesday that any Israeli decision on military action against Iran was ''far off.'' There has been widespread speculation that American officials like General Dempsey are sent here to get to the bottom of Israeli intentions or to persuade the Israelis not to take what the United States regards as rash action. Mr. Barak denied that such an effort was the point of this trip, however, saying, ''The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is not coming with a view to putting pressure on the state of Israel.''
This week, the Israelis announced that a huge joint military exercise with American troops planned for the spring had been postponed to the second half of the year, apparently to reduce regional tensions.
Israeli officials say that while the two countries view the intelligence on Iranian nuclear endeavors in the same way, Israel feels more vulnerable about them. It is especially worried about Iran's recent decision to move some uranium enrichment to a site deep underground, making any attack less likely to succeed. Officials here speak of their concern about Iranian ''zones of immunity'' that will make stopping the construction of weapons much harder.
But there is a strong strain of thought here and more so abroad that says an Israeli attack on Iran could be catastrophic, prompting a military counterattack as well as further radicalizing the region and isolating Israel.
Apart from sanctions and plans for military action, it appears that Israel, the United States and other Western countries have disrupted Iran's nuclear program through sabotage: the sale of faulty parts and the introduction of computer worms and malfunctions. Five Iranian nuclear scientists have also been killed under mysterious circumstances. Iran has vowed to avenge their deaths.
For President Obama, tensions over Iran could make his re-election this year more complicated, especially if oil and gasoline prices rise as a result, causing hardship for American consumers. But his Republican opponents are much more hawkish on Iran and Israel's other enemies so he faces pressure from both directions.
Iran's intentions seem only more alarming to Israeli strategists as country after country in the region has undergone radical change and the power of political Islam grows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMS RACE (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (78%); SHIMON PERES (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) ISRAEL (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



863 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Bankrupt, Kodak Vows To Rebound

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
In filing for bankruptcy protection early Thursday morning, Eastman Kodak executives say they are seeking to follow the path of American corporations that have reinvented themselves after a court-supervised reorganization, like United Airlines and Chrysler.
Antonio M. Perez, the company's oft-criticized chief executive who has been trying to turn the company around since 2005, said the bankruptcy was a step ''in our transformation in order to build the strong possible foundation for the Kodak of the future.''
''What everyone should expect from Kodak is business as usual,'' he said, in a video message. 
For critics, business as usual is exactly the problem with Kodak. They questioned how Kodak would emerge from bankruptcy as a viable company since it has not yet proved that its turnaround strategy, focusing on consumer and commercial printers, can turn a profit.
''My sense is they have played every card they can dig out of the deck,'' said Jay Lawrence Westbrook, a business law professor at the University of Texas. He predicted that Kodak would liquidate most of its assets, with some parts remaining as viable companies, perhaps even called Kodak.
But he added, ''I would be very surprised if they reorganized and look anything like the Kodak that went in.''
Shannon Cross, an analyst who has had a sell rating on Kodak since 2001, said the problem for Kodak was that its core businesses had not been making money and the company had been living off licensing fees for intellectual property.
''To me it's not clear that the pieces that will be left at the end make sense as a stand-alone company,'' she said. ''It's sad that it happened. It's not a surprise, the way it's been managed.''
The predecessor to Kodak, Eastman Dry Plate Company, was formed as a partnership in 1881 by George Eastman, and it became one of America's blue-chip giants, a company whose name became synonymous with taking pictures and its ubiquitous yellow film box. But the company was slow to respond to competition in the film business from Fujifilm of Japan, which undercut Kodak's prices.
And though one of its own researchers invented the digital camera, Kodak was slow to embrace digital photography.
At a court hearing on Thursday evening, a lawyer representing Kodak creditors questioned management's plan to borrow $950 million from Citigroup to stay afloat during the bankruptcy process, noting that the company had burned through $2 billion in the last two years trying to reinvent itself.
''From our perspective, what's past is prologue,'' said Michael Stamer, the lawyer. ''They have taken what we believe is reckless and destructive spending and imposed them on this case.''
Under Mr. Perez, who joined Kodak from Hewlett-Packard in 2003 and became chief executive in 2005, the company has tried to reinvent itself by focusing on printers, packaging and work force software.
Mr. Perez financed those efforts with billions in licensing fees from Kodak's intellectual property, but analysts warned that Kodak was burning through cash too quickly and could eventually run out.
Kodak announced last July that it would try to sell some of its digital imaging patents, hoping to cash in on a frenzy for intellectual property that drove Google's $12.5 billion takeover of Motorola Mobility. But Kodak failed to garner enough interest among potential buyers, driven in part by fears of the company's deteriorating financial health.
In explaining the bankruptcy, Mr. Perez said his turnaround efforts were hurt by the recession, which slowed new business growth and expedited the decline of the film business. He said the objectives of the reorganization included obtaining new financing to shore up confidence in Kodak, selling some of the company's patents and adjusting ''legacy'' costs - like health care benefits for retirees - to the company's now smaller size.
''Kodak is taking a significant step toward enabling our enterprise to complete its transformation,'' he said in prepared remarks.
The bankruptcy is expected to help with the patent sale, and it could also allow Kodak to shed some of its retiree obligations.
Bob Volpe, president of EKRA, an association of Kodak retirees, said the pension fund was well funded, and it generally could not be clawed back by the company or creditors. But the company also provides health benefits to its 38,000 retirees in the United States, he explained, and that coverage will probably be vulnerable in bankruptcy court. Last year, those health care benefits cost $240 million, according to company figures.
''If you look at the pattern of what has happened from other companies in bankruptcy, that's what happened,'' he said.
Allan L. Gropper, the federal bankruptcy judge overseeing the case, said, ''Kodak is a great American institution, and every creditor here, I'm sure, wants to see it get out of Chapter 11 as soon as possible and to prosper. The question today is how to do that quickly and simply.''
The first task may be for Kodak to sell the patents it has been trying to unload, said Daniel C. McElhinney, managing director of corporate restructuring for Epiq Systems. Though buyers may have been skittish, he said a court-supervised sale provided greater protection against liens and other claims. A Kodak lawyer estimated the patents were worth $2.2 billion to $2.6 billion.
If the sale is successful, and depending on how much money remains, Kodak will then have to convince the court that it has a viable business plan. Lawrence R. Perkins, senior managing director at Conway Mackenzie, a restructuring and financial advisory firm, said that a bankruptcy could provide Kodak with a fresh start, but it would not be easy.
''This is going to be a tough one,'' he said. ''Just like anything else, the business has evolved. It's going to be hard to unwind 130 years of history.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Eastman Kodak factory in Rochester, and a collection of color slide film and 35 mm film canisters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID DUPREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 GARY CAMERON/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (70%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: ANTONIO PEREZ (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



864 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Tied to Christie Will Seek U.S. Senate Seat

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a prominent Republican state senator who is a close friend of Gov. Chris Christie, announced on Thursday that he would run in New Jersey this year for the United States Senate, seeking to unseat Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat and a bitter rival of the governor. 
The decision by Mr. Kyrillos, a former state party chairman who had been urged to run by Mr. Christie and national Republicans, has the potential to turn the Senate race into a costly contest that will be closely watched nationally.
In a statement, Mr. Kyrillos, who represents Monmouth County, hinted at the themes of his campaign, accusing Mr. Menendez of having helped expand the size of government without doing anything to improve the economy.
''Bob Menendez will offer more of the same: more debt, more spending and more joblessness,'' he said. ''I will offer real solutions to renew America's promise.''
Mr. Menendez's campaign quickly fired back, describing Mr. Kyrillos as ''a longtime Trenton insider'' who takes the side of ''corporations and special interests over working families and older people, and panders to the most extreme elements of Washington Republicans.''
As Mr. Menendez embarks on his campaign, he appears to have his work cut out for him. A poll by Quinnipiac University this month showed that 45 percent of registered voters believed he deserved to win another term, 38 percent did not and 17 percent were undecided.
At least one other Republican, Ian Linker, a lawyer from Bergen County, has also entered the race.
Mr. Menendez, one of the most formidable fund-raisers in Washington, has been stockpiling money in advance of the contest. He has $8.1 million on hand, according to his campaign.
Mr. Kyrillos's campaign has not released his fund-raising totals and will not have to do so until the end of March. But a Kyrillos adviser said Thursday that the lawmaker expected to raise the money he needed to be competitive.
The race also has the makings of a kind of proxy battle between Mr. Menendez and Mr. Christie, a pugnacious politician who was said to have been looking for months for a candidate to run against the senator.
The two men have had a frosty relationship that dates to 2006, when Mr. Christie, then the United States attorney in Newark, opened an investigation into a nonprofit community agency that paid Mr. Menendez rent at the same time that he was helping the group obtain federal grants.
The investigation became public two months before the November 2006 election, when Mr. Menendez was running for election to the seat to which he had been appointed, leading Democrats to claim that the Christie investigation was politically motivated. The investigation closed without any charges.
Mr. Kyrillos's political career began in 1988, when he was elected to the State Assembly to represent the 13th District in Monmouth County. In 1992, he was elected for the first time to his current seat in the Senate.
In addition to his work in the State Senate, Mr. Kyrillos, who is married and has two children, is a senior managing director at Colliers International, a commercial real estate services firm. He is also an adviser to Newport Capital Group, a boutique investment firm in Red Bank, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a Republican state senator, wants to unseat Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FAMILY (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); RENEW AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



865 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Public Outcry Over Antipiracy Bills Began as Grass-Roots Grumbling: Suddenly, Hollywood Wants to Sit Down and Talk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Jack Valenti walked the halls of Congress, friends by the dozen gripped, grinned and took note of what was worrying the movie industry's dapper chief lobbyist.
Christopher J. Dodd now fills Mr. Valenti's shoes. But he stays out of those halls, thanks to restrictions on his ability to lobby Congress until 2013.
It just cost him a big one.
A major push by copyright holders -- including those in the Motion Picture Association of America, of which Mr. Dodd is chairman -- for a tough federal law to control foreign online piracy collapsed this week under stiff resistance from technology companies and their allies. 
On Wednesday, as Web sites expressed opposition to the legislation, important lawmakers withdrew their support, leaving Mr. Dodd and his associates scrambling to find what could be salvaged.
In an interview Thursday, Mr. Dodd said he would welcome a summit meeting between Internet companies and content companies, perhaps convened by the White House, that could lead to a compromise. Looming next Tuesday is a cloture vote scheduled in the Senate, which appears to promise the death of the legislation in its current form.
''The perfect place to do it is a block away from here,'' said Mr. Dodd, who pointed from his office on I Street toward 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
But the startlingly speedy collapse of the antipiracy campaign by some of Washington's savviest players -- not just the motion picture association, but also the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Recording Industry Association of America -- signaled deep changes in antipiracy lobbying in the future. By Mr. Dodd's account, no Washington player can safely assume that a well-wired, heavily financed legislative program is safe from a sudden burst of Web-driven populism.
''This is altogether a new effect,'' Mr. Dodd said, comparing the online movement to the Arab Spring. He could not remember seeing ''an effort that was moving with this degree of support change this dramatically'' in the last four decades, he added.
That shift was exposed this week partly because Mr. Dodd found himself in a political knife fight while being forced to sheathe his most powerful weapon: 36 years of personal relationships with a Congress in which he had served as a representative and then senator since 1975, before joining the motion picture association last March.
Under legislation passed in 2007, Mr. Dodd is barred from personally lobbying Congress for two years after leaving office. Hired as the consummate Washington insider to carry the film industry's banner on crucial issues like piracy, Mr. Dodd ended up being more coach than player. He helped devise a strategy that called for his coalition to line up a strong array of legislative sponsors and supporters behind two similar laws -- the Stop Online Piracy Act in the House, and the Protect I.P. Act in the Senate -- and then to move them through the Congress quickly before possible opposition from tech companies could coalesce.
But slow pacing gave the Internet and free speech advocates time to wake up and mobilize, turning what might have been a relatively simple exercise for Mr. Dodd and his allies into a bitter struggle. The delays violated a cardinal rule among professional lobbyists, who generally believe the worst enemy of a proposed law is the legislative clock.
Mr. Dodd said that the entire industry was surprised by the intensity of the objections that arose in the last couple of weeks. ''This was a whole new different game all of a sudden,'' he said. ''This thing was considered by many to be a slam dunk.''
Data shows that copyright holders and supporters of the bills outspent opponents substantially in the early stages of the debate. But by many accounts the tech industry has stepped up its lobbying efforts in recent weeks. New spending reports expected shortly indicate whether the balance has shifted.
The Senate vote on Tuesday will show whether opponents like Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, have succeeded in derailing that chamber's version of the law.
On Thursday, however, Mr. Dodd appeared to have all but thrown in the towel on the bills in their current form, and was talking about lessons learned. He acknowledged his side had committed a misstep by allowing Hollywood to become the face of laws that were intended to protect not just movies, but also more mundane products -- for instance, home smoke alarms -- that are frequently counterfeited abroad, sometimes with disastrous effects.
''In terms of public perception, I'm Exhibit A,'' said Mr. Dodd, who spent last weekend hobnobbing with stars at the Golden Globes. ''This is seen as a red carpet business.''
It was a further problem, he said, that Hollywood's writers, directors, producers and blue-collar workers -- whose unions squarely backed the new law -- never personally campaigned in a way that might have helped to counter the Web assault.
''There's a disconnect between the business interests and the politics of Hollywood,'' Mr. Dodd said, meaning that the film industry and its denizens provided money for many campaigns, including those of Mr. Obama, without pushing its issues to the fore.
Mr. Wyden said the public resistance confirmed his longstanding belief that the measures would become wildly unpopular once people saw their potential for censoring Web sites and unleashing litigation against entrepreneurs, both large and small.
''I will use every ounce of my strength to fight'' to stop PIPA in next week's procedural vote, said Mr. Wyden, who has been pushing what he said was a less intrusive alternative. The fight has been a challenge for Mr. Dodd in other ways as well. A silver-haired 67-year-old, Mr. Dodd risks looking like a scold in public appearances that find him lecturing opponents about damage to the economy, including some $58 billion in estimated annual losses to copyright thieves.
In his office on Thursday, he pointed his finger while recalling how he had recently admonished high school-age students on a Massachusetts film set. The next time they are tempted to steal a film, he told them, think about the makeup artists and grips whose jobs are at stake.
''I think Chris Dodd has done a spectacular job,'' said Jim Gianopulos, co-chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, who spoke by telephone on Thursday. ''He's been unable to do direct lobbying, but as a strategist, he's been superb,'' said Mr. Gianopulos. Misinformation about the antipiracy bills had complicated a campaign that is not yet over, he said.
While Mr. Dodd is barred from Congressional contact, he has had a free hand in lobbying the White House and federal agencies. On Saturday, however, the Obama administration dealt his efforts a blow by announcing publicly, in response to online petitions, that it had reservations about a provision in the proposed laws that called for blocking user access to offending sites.
Mr. Dodd spoke with barely concealed anger at what he called a ''really gratuitous'' statement delivered by what he had presumed was a sympathetic administration, which came after the blocking provisions had effectively been killed in Congress.
The real message, said Mr. Dodd, may be that further change is in order for the motion picture association, which represents Walt Disney Studios, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, 20th Century Fox, Universal Studios and Warner Brothers. The group, he said, lost focus and energy after Mr. Valenti's retirement in 2004.
The companies, Mr. Dodd said, are ''rethinking everything,'' not just about the bills, but about their relationship with an estranged Silicon Valley.
That need for rapprochement, he said, ''has come home in a way that no rhetoric of mine could express.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Dodd heads the Motion Picture Association of America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE HOSHIKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Christopher Dodd suggested the White House convene a meeting on antipiracy legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS PIZZELLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COPYRIGHT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



866 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, a Day at Disney World and a Night of Fund-Raisers

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- While the Republican presidential contest in South Carolina riveted media attention on Thursday, President Obama literally flew above the fray in a day that captured the perquisites of incumbency for a president facing re-election.
Mr. Obama first flew on Air Force One here to Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom, where he announced executive orders long sought by the travel industry to help lure more big-spending foreign tourists to the United States, and specifically to Florida, the largest of the election battleground states. Then the government jet turned north to New York, for four fund-raisers on the Upper East Side and in Harlem. 
It was the latest of what have been near-weekly day trips for Mr. Obama from Washington to a swing state location or two, where he announces some policy initiative beneficial to the locals, and tacks on a fund-raiser or three. The president's travel, the costs for which are apportioned between the taxpayers and the Democratic Party or Mr. Obama's campaign depending on the mix of official and political events, is expected to pick up as the election approaches. Next week, Mr. Obama will crisscross the country visiting five swing states in three days to echo the message he delivers on Tuesday in the annual, nationally televised State of the Union address.
The situation for Mr. Obama is a far cry from five years ago, when he opened his long-shot bid for the presidency with a spare Chicago office and without even a copying machine or a credit card account. While he is now struggling, as the incumbent in a weak economy, against the widespread perception that his policies have not done enough to put more people back to work, Mr. Obama is using all the tools at hand to persuade Americans otherwise -- or at a minimum to convince them that his agenda is superior to what Republicans offer, if voters will just give him more time.
Here, in a state for which tourism is an economic mainstay, Mr. Obama announced that the administration would expedite visa-processing for would-be visitors from Brazil and China, two emerging economic powers, by sending 100 additional consuls to those countries to cut waits from many weeks to less than three weeks. Brazil, especially, is a source of travelers to Florida, and those in the tourism industry, including Disney, have pressed for some easing in visa restrictions imposed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
''China and Brazil are the two countries which have some of the biggest backlogs,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And these are two of the countries with some of the fastest-growing middle classes that want to visit and have disposable income.'' He added. ''We want them spending money here, in Orlando, in Florida, in the United States of America, which will boost our businesses and our economy.''
Mr. Obama spoke outdoors from a stage in the middle of Disney World's faux Main Street USA, against the backdrop of Cinderella's Castle, to an audience of perhaps 300 local politicians, union officials and Disney employees. The setting provided an opening for Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner whom the White House expects to be the eventual nominee, to mock the president's event in advance.
''He's going to be in Fantasyland, and it's obviously appropriate because he's been living in a sort of Fantasyland these last few years,'' Mr. Romney said.
The president's executive orders were part of his ''we can't wait'' campaign started months ago to showcase job-creation actions that he can take without getting approval from Congress, where Republicans routinely try to block him. As the president has acknowledged, many of the initiatives are relatively modest in terms of their potential impact on job creation, compared with legislation he has sent to Congress that has mostly languished.
In New York by evening, Mr. Obama attended two fund-raisers at the restaurant Daniel on the Upper East Side, the first one with about 100 Jewish supporters who paid at least $5,000 each, and the second with about 60 supporters who paid $15,000. The hosts of the first event included former Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Next, about 40 people paid $35,800 each for dinner with Mr. Obama at the Upper East Side home of the moviemaker Spike Lee. More than 1,400 people, mostly younger supporters, were expected at the final event at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, with entertainment by the singers Al Green and India.Arie, and tickets priced at $100 and $200.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with the Magic Kingdom as a backdrop, unveiled a tourism initiative on Thursday at Walt Disney World in Florida, the largest of the election battleground states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); TOURISM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); PHOTOCOPIERS (64%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



867 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: From South Carolina, a Wary Welcome

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. -- With much of the nation focused on South Carolina, the state's defiant nature and quirky brand of politics are on full display.
Here, in the state that was the first to fire shots in the Civil War and the last to enact a paid state holiday honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a version of the Confederate flag still flies in front of the State House.
Men wrapped in chains made from plastic baby dolls protest abortion on college campuses. 
State workers answer the phone with, ''It's a great day in South Carolina'' because the governor, the Tea Party favorite Nikki R. Haley, wants them to. Democrats are trying to pass a bill prohibiting the greeting unless it really is a great day in South Carolina, which to them means the unemployment rate will have dropped by half to 5 percent and everyone will have access to health insurance.
So when the national news media -- including many pesky Northerners -- invade the state, South Carolinians cringe. They know the colorful foibles they embrace like an eccentric country cousin do not necessarily translate well.
''It's amazing how reporters always seem to find the guy in the trailer in the oddest town in the state,'' said Jon Evans, 32, a Web strategist here in Greenville.
With a goatee, chunky glasses and his laptop open at a downtown coffee shop where people were discussing whether South Carolina could be considered the Tuscany of the South, he looked like a Democratic voter straight out of Park Slope, Brooklyn. But he plans to vote in Saturday's Republican primary, though he is still undecided.
Mr. Evans and others across the state acknowledge that South Carolina's political history makes it hard to believe that strong pockets of progressive thought and urban sensibilities are growing here.
They are, especially in places like Greenville, the second largest city in the state. It has a revitalized, cafe-laden downtown that seems more European than Deep South. Earlier this week, gay couples chose Greenville as a place to apply for marriage licenses in an effort to challenge South Carolina's constitutional ban on same-sex marriage.
Change has been coming to South Carolina as more outsiders move in, longtime residents here say. South Carolina's population grew more than 15 percent between 2000 and 2010, making it one of America's 10 fastest-growing states.
People like Chip Townsend, an engineer who moved his family to Greenville from Boulder, Colo., in 2006, discovered that the state is not an insular, ultraconservative bosom of the Confederacy.
''That attitude of stubbornness and inability to adapt to change and the whole thing with the Confederate flag is defiance for the sake of defiance, but that does not represent all of South Carolina,'' Mr. Townsend said.
Still, he cannot deny that South Carolina has had its share of cringe-inducing political moments.
They include when Representative Joe Wilson, a Republican, yelled, ''You lie!'' in the middle of President Obama's speech on health care to Congress in 2009, the revelation in 2010 that Senator Strom Thurmond had fathered a child with his family's black maid when he was a young segregationist and Mark Sanford's admission in 2009, while he was governor, that he had not been hiking the Appalachian Trail but had been visiting a woman he described as his soul mate in Argentina, much to the dismay of his supporters and his wife.
All of which is fine for South Carolinians to poke fun at. And they do. Regularly. Fighting over politics is sport here.
Jack Bass, a political writer from Charleston, recalls something that Ernest F. Hollings, a former United States senator from South Carolina who was known as Fritz, once told him: ''The typical South Carolinian gets up in the morning, recites the Pledge of Allegiance, salutes the flag and then spends the rest of the day fighting.''
Just do not try criticizing the state if you are from ''off,'' the phrase applied to anyone who was not born and raised here.
South Carolinians ''band together when they feel attacked and outsiders are telling them what to do,'' Mr. Bass said.
''They're worse than Texans,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hoisting the South Carolina state flag in preparation for a Mitt Romney rally at the Florence Civic Center this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); COHABITATION (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); MARRIAGE (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); MARRIAGE LAW (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NIKKI HALEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



868 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Taxes At the Top

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Call me peculiar, but I'm actually enjoying the spectacle of Mitt Romney doing the Dance of the Seven Veils -- partly out of voyeurism, of course, but also because it's about time that we had this discussion.
The theme of his dance, for those who haven't been paying attention, is taxes -- his own taxes. Although disclosure of tax returns is standard practice for political candidates, Mr. Romney has never done so, and, at first, he tried to stonewall the issue even in a presidential race. Then he said that he probably pays only about 15 percent of his income in taxes, and he hinted that he might release his 2011 return. 
Even then, however, he will face pressure to release previous returns, too -- like his father, who released 12 years of returns back when he made his presidential run. (The elder Romney, by the way, paid 37 percent of his income in taxes).
And the public has a right to see the back years: By 2011, with the campaign looming, Mr. Romney may have rearranged his portfolio to minimize awkward issues like his accounts in the Cayman Islands or his use of the justly reviled ''carried interest'' tax break.
But the larger question isn't what Mitt Romney's tax returns have to say about Mitt Romney; it's what they have to say about U.S. tax policy. Is there a good reason why the rich should bear a startlingly light tax burden?
For they do. If Mr. Romney is telling the truth about his taxes, he's actually more or less typical of the very wealthy. Since 1992, the I.R.S. has been releasing income and tax data for the 400 highest-income filers. In 2008, the most recent year available, these filers paid only 18.1 percent of their income in federal income taxes; in 2007, they paid only 16.6 percent. When you bear in mind that the rich pay little either in payroll taxes or in state and local taxes -- major burdens on middle-class families -- this implies that the top 400 filers faced lower taxes than many ordinary workers.
The main reason the rich pay so little is that most of their income takes the form of capital gains, which are taxed at a maximum rate of 15 percent, far below the maximum on wages and salaries. So the question is whether capital gains -- three-quarters of which go to the top 1 percent of the income distribution -- warrant such special treatment.
Defenders of low taxes on the rich mainly make two arguments: that low taxes on capital gains are a time-honored principle, and that they are needed to promote economic growth and job creation. Both claims are false.
When you hear about the low, low taxes of people like Mr. Romney, what you need to know is that it wasn't always thus -- and the days when the superrich paid much higher taxes weren't that long ago. Back in 1986, Ronald Reagan -- yes, Ronald Reagan -- signed a tax reform equalizing top rates on earned income and capital gains at 28 percent. The rate rose further, to more than 29 percent, during Bill Clinton's first term.
Low capital gains taxes date only from 1997, when Mr. Clinton struck a deal with Republicans in Congress in which he cut taxes on the rich in return for creation of the Children's Health Insurance Program. And today's ultralow rates -- the lowest since the days of Herbert Hoover -- date only from 2003, when former President George W. Bush rammed both a tax cut on capital gains and a tax cut on dividends through Congress, something he achieved by exploiting the illusion of triumph in Iraq.
Correspondingly, the low-tax status of the very rich is also a recent development. During Mr. Clinton's first term, the top 400 taxpayers paid close to 30 percent of their income in federal taxes, and even after his tax deal they paid substantially more than they have since the 2003 cut.
So is it essential that the rich receive such a big tax break? There is a theoretical case for according special treatment to capital gains, but there are also theoretical and practical arguments against such special treatment. In particular, the huge gap between taxes on earned income and taxes on unearned income creates a perverse incentive to arrange one's affairs so as to make income appear in the ''right'' category.
And the economic record certainly doesn't support the notion that superlow taxes on the superrich are the key to prosperity. During that first Clinton term, when the very rich paid much higher taxes than they do now, the economy added 11.5 million jobs, dwarfing anything achieved even during the good years of the Bush administration.
So Mr. Romney's tax dance is doing us all a service by highlighting the unwise, unjust and expensive favors being showered on the upper-upper class. At a time when all the self-proclaimed serious people are telling us that the poor and the middle class must suffer in the name of fiscal probity, such low taxes on the very rich are indefensible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); FAMILY (69%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



869 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Villagers Flee As Ethnic War Jars Myanmar

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Adam Dean contributed reporting from Bhamo, Myanmar, and Li Bibo contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
MAIJA YANG, Myanmar -- Even as the Burmese government initiates political reforms in much of the country, it has intensified an ethnic civil war here in the resource-rich hills of northern Myanmar, a conflict that at once threatens its warming trend with the United States and could alienate Chinese officials concerned about stability on the border.
This month hundreds of mortar rounds fired by the Burmese military landed within miles of this town near the mountainous Chinese border. International human rights groups and soldiers and officials of the Kachin ethnic group say that Burmese soldiers have burned and looted homes, planted mines, forcibly recruited villagers as porters and guides, and raped, tortured and executed civilians. Several thousand villagers have fled to China. Tens of thousands more who have been displaced could follow if the Burmese Army continues its offensive, local relief workers say. 
Lazum Bulu will not be going farther. Exhausted by the flight from her village, she died on Jan. 10 in a bare concrete room in a camp here for the displaced. People said she was 107. Her body lay on blankets on the floor. ''I regret that my mother can't be buried with my father,'' said her daughter, Hkang Je Mayun. ''The Burmese Army was coming, and we didn't want to live in the village anymore. We were afraid they would kill all the Kachin people.''
The fighting has raised questions about the limits of the reform agenda pushed by President Thein Sein, Myanmar's first civilian president in nearly 50 years, who has led the opening to the West. Some analysts in Myanmar say Mr. Thein Sein has been unable or unwilling to control the generals pressing the war.
Myanmar, formerly Burma, is riddled with ethnic civil conflicts, but this is the largest, with the greatest at stake. Right on the Chinese border, Kachin State is rich in jade, gold and timber, and has rivers that are being exploited by Chinese hydropower projects. Part of the state has long been controlled by the Kachin Independence Army and its political wing, which levies taxes on all commerce. The army allowed a reporter and a photographer recently to visit an area rarely seen by Western reporters for one week.
Both the United States and China would like to see the war resolved: the Chinese to ensure stability on the border and access to resources and important power projects; the United States to forestall the kinds of abuses by the Burmese military that present one of the biggest obstacles as President Obama considers lifting economic sanctions. At the same time, some Chinese officials and executives might welcome Burmese military control of the resource-rich areas, preferring to cut deals with the Burmese rather than the Kachin, foreign analysts say.
Some Kachin commanders say one factor that rekindled the war last June after a 17-year cease-fire may have been a desire by the Burmese military to widen its control of the areas with Chinese energy projects.
Such projects are a source of tension. After protests last year by Kachin civilians, Mr. Thein Sein suspended the planned Myitsone Dam, which was being built by a Chinese company in a part of the state controlled by the Burmese. That angered Chinese officials and executives, some of whom suspect Mr. Thein Sein of trying to wean Myanmar off its overreliance on China and to encourage investment from the West.
Despite the war against the Kachin, Mr. Thein Sein, a former general, has tried to quell other ethnic conflicts and push reforms, like his release of 651 political prisoners last week. After the release, the Obama administration upgraded relations by agreeing to exchange ambassadors.
American officials have told Myanmar, which reached a cease-fire agreement on Jan. 12 with a major ethnic Karen army, that it must prove its commitment to reforms by resolving its many other ethnic conflicts, including the Kachin war. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the main opposition leader, has said the same. On Dec. 10, Mr. Thein Sein ordered a halt to attacks against the Kachin, but Burmese commanders have carried on.
Kachin officials said they held inconclusive negotiations this week with the Burmese in a Chinese border town; talks held last fall failed.
Chinese officials are anxious about the refugees. Since June, about 7,000 have fled to China, and 50,000 or so are displaced on this side of the border, said Lahkang May Li Awng, director of a local aid organization.
The Chinese government has made no formal statement about the war, but analysts in Beijing say officials want a settlement.
''With the military conflict, Chinese companies operating in the area are definitely affected,'' said Xu Liping, a scholar of Southeast Asia at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. ''China obviously hopes the Myanmar government and the local Kachin regime can seek reconciliation together and treat regional development as a priority.''
At the conflict's resumption in early June, the Burmese military attacked a Kachin post at Bum Sen, near a hydropower project operated by the China Datang Corporation that sends 90 percent of its electricity to China. Chinese workers fled, but the project resumed operations last month.
A major cause of the fighting was a government push in 2009 to get all the ethnic militias to disarm and join the Border Guard Force. A few groups agreed, but most balked. The Kachin intensified their military training. Their leaders now say they will not enter into another cease-fire unless Mr. Thein Sein can guarantee real political dialogue. Their aim is to maintain autonomy. Independent Kachin candidates were barred from taking part in the parliamentary elections of November 2010.
''We want our autonomous area,'' said Brig. Gen. Sumlut Gun Maw, 49, as he sat in the Kachin army's command center in a hotel in Laiza, a Christmas tree and a portrait of Jesus against one wall. (Most Kachin are Christians, while most Burmese are Buddhists.) ''But they couldn't address this problem by means of politics, so they decided to do it by means of arms.''
The general said at least 140 Kachin soldiers had been killed out of a force of more than 10,000, and he estimated that there had been 1,000 battles or skirmishes since June. There are no accurate numbers for civilians killed or wounded.
The Kachin army has lost significant territory in recent months, and it and the civilians are now pressed up against the Chinese border. Its bases are mostly huts strung along ridges or at roadsides. Soldiers carry old automatic rifles, and some have slingshots tucked into their belts. Much of the recent fighting has been near Maija Yang, the second-largest town under Kachin control and a place that once drew Chinese gamblers with its Chinese-run casinos.
This month, residents heard heavy mortar fire from dawn until late night. The barrages lessened after two Kachin posts on a strategic road were taken. Now residents fear Maija Yang could soon fall. The commanders of the Third Brigade of the Kachin army have abandoned their headquarters here and retreated to an old base in the mountains. They are also evacuating amputee soldiers.
''I think it's impossible for us to defend our territory because of the unequal strengths of the two armies,'' said Cpl. Waje Naw Ja, 32, as he lay in a hospital bed stained with dried blood, his right leg amputated below the knee because of a landmine wound. Both sides are rampantly planting mines.
The Kachin government is struggling to support the displaced civilians. Camps here and in China lack adequate food, health care and education facilities. Outside Laiza, a camp of 5,000 people has sprung up, with three families squeezed into each bamboo hut and the air smoky with cooking fires. The Burmese government has allowed United Nations agencies to enter the Kachin areas only once.
''We're so scared now; we think it's a curse to be Kachin,'' Hpakum Kaw, 50, said the day after arriving in the camp outside Laiza with her husband and daughter.
She said the family fled their village after it came under mortar fire and was occupied by Burmese soldiers. On Jan. 6, the soldiers arrested a village representative and began circulating a list of names of wanted men that included her husband, she said. About 200 Kachin households have fled, and only 20 or so remain, she said.
At least 10,000 displaced people live in camps in areas controlled by the Burmese government. In one of them, run by a Baptist church in the town of Bhamo, a father of three said he was one of five men from his village pressed into service as porters and guides by Burmese soldiers in October. The Burmese fired mortars right before entering. One boy was killed, and many of the villagers fled, said the father, Tumai Nhkum, 29. The soldiers ransacked shops and homes, burning down one, and shot farm animals. They stayed three days, then marched onward with the porters.
Tumai Nhkum said he had to carry radio batteries, rice and a typewriter captured from the Kachin army. The porters were beaten, then let go after 20 days.
''I cried when I was finally released because I was so worried about my children,'' he said. ''I went straight back to my family and brought them here, where it's safer. I don't know when I'll be able to return.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A recruit with the Kachin Independence Army trained recently in northern Myanmar, an area rich in jade, gold and timber. (A1)
Kachin fighters moving to the front line last week. The United States wants Myanmar to end the conflict as part of its reforms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Kachin army has lost territory to Myanmar's military in recent months, and thousands have fled to camps like this one in Bhamo. Myanmar is riddled with ethnic conflicts
 this one, along China's border, is the largest. Video and photos: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A10) MAP (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (91%); ARMIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TORTURE (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (66%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%)

PERSON: THEIN SEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



870 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Unearned, And Taxed Unequally

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Whatever happened to ''unearned income''?
That used to be the normal term for income from investments -- dividends, interest and capital gains.
For some, that term produced images of ''coupon clippers,'' another term you don't hear much anymore. The coupons in question were not the kind that get you 25 cents off on Jell-O at the grocery store. They were the ones that came attached to bonds in a precomputer age. To get your interest payment every six months, you literally had to clip off the coupon and take it to your bank.
More than half a century ago, when President Dwight D. Eisenhower proposed taxing dividends at lower rates than wages, Representative John W. McCormack, a Massachusetts Democrat who later was to become speaker of the House, was outraged.
''The Republican tax bill is indefensible in that portion which gives great benefits to corporations and constitutes a bonanza to stockholders, the larger ones in particular,'' he said in 1954. ''It is unjust and in my opinion morally wrong to make a person with earned income pay considerably more in taxes than persons with unearned income from dividends.'' 
That tax fight ended with a benefit for small shareholders, who would escape tax on the first $50 a year of dividends. But annual dividends above that amount remained fully taxable at ordinary income tax rates, which ranged up to 91 percent. Mr. Eisenhower's proposal to cut the rates on such payouts was rejected.
Not until 2003 were dividend tax rates reduced below ordinary income tax rates. Then they were cut to 15 percent, the same as the capital gains rate.
For most of the history of income taxes in America, long-term capital gains -- defined at different times as investments held for minimum periods of as little as six months and as long as 10 years -- have been taxed at substantially lower rates than top ordinary income tax rates.
There was, in fact, only one time that capital gains were taxed at the same rates that were paid by people who earned their money by working. That was during the years 1988 to 1990, as a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 -- a law championed by President Ronald Reagan.
To be sure, he changed his mind about unearned income in 1988. After Vice President George H. W. Bush, then campaigning to succeed Mr. Reagan, endorsed lowering capital gains taxes, the president allowed that might be a good idea. Mr. Bush and the Congress did lower them after he was elected.
These days, the conventional way to look at taxes on investments is to think they should be low to stimulate investment and thus help the economy. It is a view that has much more support in economic theory than in economic history.
Correlation is not causation, of course, but the economy has tended to do the best when taxes on unearned income were high. Economic growth was great during the 1950s, when dividends were taxed at very high levels and capital gains rates were 25 percent, much higher than they are now. Since 2003, tax rates on unearned income have been at their lowest levels ever, and economic growth has been sluggish.
Tax rates are not the reason for that, at least not directly. But it could be argued that low tax receipts now are having a pernicious impact, particularly on state and local governments. Their layoffs have been a drag on the recovery, and the declining quality of infrastructure in many areas has hurt many businesses. If the federal government taxed unearned income anywhere close to historical averages, there could have been a lot more tax money available to help out when the credit crisis hit.
There is no question that tax policy has had a major impact on investment, but its impact probably has been less in the overall level than in the allocation of investments.
Corporate profits, at least theoretically, are taxed twice, once when the company earns them and again when shareholders are taxed on their dividend payments. But interest payments to bondholders are deductible to the corporation, unlike the dividends it pays to shareholders. As a result, there has been an incentive to finance companies with as much debt, and as little equity, as possible. That maximizes return on equity in good times, and allows companies to plausibly claim they will raise profits much more rapidly than sales. But it also makes bankruptcies more likely when the economy falters. The Eisenhower tax policy that outraged Representative McCormack was intended to reduce that incentive a little, by reducing slightly the rates on dividend income. Had it passed, it probably would have had little impact.
The most interesting effort to end double taxation of dividends came from President George W. Bush in 2003. He proposed that dividend payments be tax-free -- but only if the company could show that the dividends were being paid out of profits on which federal income taxes had in fact been paid.
That proposal caused something close to panic among some business lobbyists. Had it been carried out effectively -- and it was evident that the Bush administration had not thought through all the details before announcing the proposal -- the result would have been that companies that pay taxes would have been able to offer tax-advantaged payouts, while those that managed to lobby for loopholes would have had to tell shareholders that they could get no such tax break. Shares in taxpaying companies would have outperformed shares in others, at least until a new equilibrium was reached.
The Bush proposal quickly was changed to simply lower the rate on dividends to 15 percent, the same as the new capital gains rate. Before that, the maximum tax on dividends had been nearly 40 percent, while the capital gains rate went as high as 21.2 percent. Share owners get a break whether or not the profits being paid out were actually taxed at the corporate level.
This history came to mind this week when Mitt Romney told a news conference that his effective tax rate was probably around 15 percent. That makes sense, since he gets a lot of his income from ''carried interest'' on private equity investments, which is taxed at capital gains rates even though the executives who get those payments typically made no actual investment, and are instead being compensated for their work in putting together and managing the investments. Mr. Romney, a founder of Bain Capital, continued to share in those payouts long after he left the company. Until he offers more information, there is no way to know how much of his income came from actual investments, as opposed to carried interest.
It does seem odd that those who work for their money generally pay higher tax rates than those who simply collect investment income. It also seems odd that those who work in that one industry -- private equity -- get to pay lower rates than those who work in other businesses.
Perhaps Mr. Romney's ability to pay little in taxes will evoke interest in the issue this year. Whoever wins the presidential election, the country's deficit problems could provide an opportunity for the most serious tax reform since Mr. Reagan's 1986 tax act. That law lowered rates while reducing exceptions and loopholes, so that lower rates could produce as much money as the previous higher ones had brought in. It also ended the preferred tax status of unearned income.
It was a good idea then. It may be a better one now.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tax legislation that President George W. Bush signed in 2003 set the tax rates on dividends below the rates for ordinary income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); TAX REFORM (68%); RETAIL COUPONS (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); GEORGE H W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



871 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, JULIA WERDIGIER and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
SHEDDING SOURED ASSETS The Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced on Thursday that it had sold assets with a face value of around $7 billion from its Maiden Lane II vehicle to Credit Suisse. 
The troubled assets were once held by the American International Group, which the Fed helped bail out in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis. Terms of the Credit Suisse bid were not announced, but William C. Dudley, above, the New York Fed's president, said he was pleased with the results. KEVIN ROOSE
HOLDING STEADY While some commentators may believe that corporate America is awash in class-action lawsuits by angry investors, a new study published Thursday suggests otherwise.
The number of federal securities lawsuits filed by investors claiming fraud at corporations remained mostly flat last year, according to the study, by Stanford University Law School and Cornerstone Research. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
KNIGHTHOOD UNDER REVIEW Frederick A. Goodwin, below, the former chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, might be stripped of his knighthood because of his role in the failure of the bank, which had to be bailed out by the government.
Prime Minister David Cameron said Thursday that he was backing a review of Mr. Goodwin's knighthood, which he was awarded in 2004 for his service to the British banking industry. JULIA WERDIGIER
BONUS DAY Thursday was ''Compensation Communication Day,'' the name Goldman Sachs gives to the day when its employees learn how big -- or how small -- their annual bonuses will be.
Many Goldman employees were dreading this year's big reveal. The firm announced on Wednesday that its revenue in 2011 was down significantly, probably taking bonuses down with it. KEVIN ROOSE
and SUSANNE CRAIG
nytimes.com/dealbook

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Pictures with two capsule summaries on the DealBook page on Friday were reversed. The picture with the first summary was of Frederick A. Goodwin, the former chief of the Royal Bank of Scotland, and the picture with the third summary was of William C. Dudley, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LAWYERS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



872 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Romney and His Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO, BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
Mitt Romney said during Thursday night's debate that he did not inherit any money from his parents.
This is not entirely accurate, according to Mr. Romney's previous remarks on the topic, and it was one of several questionable assertions made by the candidates in the debate.
In an interview with C-Span in March 2006, Mr. Romney said that upon the death of his father, George, the former chief executive of American Motors, he received an inheritance. But he quickly donated the money to Brigham Young University, he said. (The younger Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, attended the college, which is tied to the Mormon Church.) 
''I did get a check from my dad when he passed away,'' Mr. Romney told Brian Lamb during the interview. ''I shouldn't say a check, but I did inherit some funds from my dad.
''But I turned and gave that away to charity,'' Mr. Romney said. ''In this case I gave it to a school which Brigham Young University established in his honor, the George W. Romney School of Public Management.''
He continued: ''And as an institute of public management, it helps young people learn about government and about serving in public service. And that's where his inheritance ended up.''
Even so, Mr. Romney benefited from his father's wealth in another way: he relied on George Romney for a loan that he used to buy his first home, in Belmont, Mass., for $42,000.
Gaps in the Work Force
The moderator of the debate, John King of CNN, told the candidates that Apple, the consumer technology giant, employs more than 400,000 people in China, and asked what they would do to bring those manufacturing jobs back to the United States.
Rick Santorum said he would eliminate taxes on manufacturing. Representative Ron Paul of Texas said he would cut back on regulation.
In his biography of Steve Jobs, the Apple founder, Walter Isaacson relates the answer to that question that Mr. Jobs gave to President Obama.
At a dinner party in Silicon Valley, Mr. Jobs told the president that the company needed 30,000 engineers to support those factory workers.
''You can't find that many in America to hire,'' Mr. Jobs said.
Mr. Isaacson wrote: ''These factory engineers did not have to be Ph.D.'s or geniuses; they simply needed to have basic engineering skills for manufacturing. Tech schools, community colleges or trade schools could train them.''
''If you could educate these engineers,'' Mr. Jobs said, ''we could move more manufacturing plants here.''
Not taxes. Not regulation. Education. BINYAMIN APPELBAUM
Financing for Abortions
Newt Gingrich, citing ''facts we've validated,'' accused Mr. Romney of presiding over a number of measures as Massachusetts governor that allowed state support of abortions.
He said that Mr. Romney's state health care plan allowed for abortions paid by taxpayers, and that it included a role for Planned Parenthood but none for a representative from an anti-abortion group.
Mr. Romney replied that there was a ''scintilla'' of truth in these assertions but said Mr. Gingrich was distorting the health care law to tar him falsely as insufficiently opposed to abortion. He has a persuasive case.
The health care overhaul law that Mr. Romney signed does not mention abortion coverage. The agency overseeing the system later decided to cover abortion because of rulings by the Massachusetts Supreme Court, which Mr. Romney had no control over.
Mr. Gingrich has suggested while campaigning that Mr. Romney might have gotten around this by finding a way to ignore the court (as he has suggested a president could ignore United States Supreme Court rulings). However, it is not fully accurate to state that Mr. Romney's health care law included ''tax-paid'' abortions.
The law does empower Planned Parenthood to appoint one person to a 14-member advisory board, with no provision for an anti-abortion group to name a representative. But the board is a technical one that reviews Medicaid rates. It does not have a role in deciding whether to pay for abortions. TRIP GABRIEL
Manufacturing Jobs
At one point in the debate, Mr. Santorum said he would eliminate taxes on American manufacturers to increase their competitiveness. He said that employment in manufacturing had declined to 9 percent of the labor force from 21 percent.
The numbers are basically correct, but it is important to understand the reason.
American factories produce more goods now, worth more money, than at any other point in history. The nation's manufacturing output has more than doubled since 1970, adjusting for inflation.
But factories have also become much more efficient, so that the number of jobs in manufacturing has plummeted even as output has soared.
American manufacturers, in other words, are doing fine. They are highly competitive. But there is little prospect that they will start hiring large numbers of workers. Taxes or no taxes, they do not need more bodies on the factory floor.
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Santorum leaving the stage during a commercial break in Thursday's debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (85%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (70%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RELIGION (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (62%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); STEVEN JOBS (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



873 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Debt And Transfiguration

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The situation is actually improving. 

 BODY:
Ryan Avent points out an important fact: if you look at total debt, public private, the United States is doing better at deleveraging than countries that talk much more about the evils of debt than we do. I thought I would redo the calculation for the US so that I understood it. I focus on nonfinancial debt -- that's because money that banks owe to each other is more a reflection of the structure of the financial system than of the degree of overborrowing more broadly. So here's nonfinancial debt, public plus private, as a percentage of GDP:
What you see here is a gradual decline in overall debt -- not at all what you hear in the public debate. Now, the composition of that debt is changing: rising public debt, falling private debt. But that's exactly what you need to deal with the aftermath of a Minsky moment: you need to reduce the debt of balance-sheet-constrained players, so that the drag on the economy is reduced over time, eventually getting us to the point where deficit spending is no longer needed to sustain the economy.
It's a crime that we aren't doing more, that unemployment is as high as it is -- and sustained high unemployment is itself taking a toll on our future as well as our present. But as far as debt is concerned, America's situation is getting better, not worse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



874 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Why Students Leave the Engineering Track

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Philip Babcock, an economist at the University of California, Davis, suggests that a lot of it has to do with homework. 

 BODY:
Amid broader discussions about the future of the American work force, the National Science Foundation has just released a comprehensive report on the state of engineering and science in America. There's a lot of meat in the report, but I found this chart to be particularly striking:
Perhaps swayed by statistics about the shortage (and correspondingly high wages) of engineers and scientists in the United States, in the last decade nearly one incoming freshman in 10 have said they expected to major in engineering. (Over all, about a third of incoming freshmen said they planned to major in any of the science and engineering fields.)
But the share who actually complete degrees in engineering has been about half that. Certain demographic groups planning to major in the natural sciences also had relatively high dropout rates.
What accounts for the high attrition rates? Maybe some of it has to do with aptitude, or encouragement, or good role models and mentors. But Philip Babcock, an economist at the University of California, Davis, suggests that a lot of it has to do with homework.
Professor Babcock has written extensively about college students' evolving study habits (or lack thereof) over the last 50 years. He found that in 1961, full-time students spent about 40 hours each week in class and studying. By 2003, they were investing about 27 hours a week.
The time spent studying has fallen across the board, but especially in non-engineering majors:
The typical engineering major today spends 18.5 hours per week studying. The typical social sciences major, by contrast, spends about 14.6 hours.
As my colleague Christopher Drew wrote in an article in November, STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) have also had less grade inflation than the humanities and social sciences have in the last several decades. Given the study habits shown above, this probably isn't surprising; courses with higher grading standards will often require students to study harder to get an A.
So maybe students intending to major in STEM fields are changing their minds because those curriculums require more work, or because they're scared off by the lower grades, or a combination of the two. Either way, it's sort of discouraging when you consider that these requirements are intimidating enough to persuade students to forgo the additional earnings they are likely to get as engineers.
There's another way to read these findings, though. Perhaps the higher wages earned by engineers reflect not only what they learn but also which students are likely to choose those majors in the first place and stay with them.
Generally speaking, the students who study engineering are willing to work hard and abide by higher standards -- traits that are useful in the labor market. Additionally, because these students worked harder in college, they also learned more, about engineering or any other subject. That would imply that humanities majors could have similar earnings potential if only they studied more, which may or may not be true.

        
Do College Grads Earn Less Now Than 40 Years Ago?
        
Getting a Degree: Less Rigor, More Value
        
College-Educated Workers Gaining Jobs, High School Grads Losing Them
        
Want a Job? Go to College, and Don't Major in Architecture
        
College Majors Matter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOMEWORK (87%); GRADE INFLATION (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (74%); CURRICULA (73%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%) Colleges and Universities; engineering; engineers; grade inflation; higher education; homework; is college worth it; science research; Engineering and Engineers

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



875 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Come Hell With High Water

BYLINE: DAN MORRISON


HIGHLIGHT: Bangladesh has the unique moral authority to convince big polluters to change their ways: it is especially vulnerable to climate change and cannot be blamed for causing it. 

 BODY:
DHAKA, Bangladesh - Earlier this month, Bangladesh's foreign minister chided the world's developed nations for failing to honor their pledge to help this low-lying, water-logged nation adapt to the effects of climate change. Of the $30 billion that poor countries were promised three years ago, just $2.5 billion have been disbursed. "Our achievements - social, economic, environmental - of the past decades" are at risk, Dipu Moni told the Guardian.
Bangladesh, much of which sits less than 20 feet above sea level, may be asking for the wrong thing. Clamoring for funds to mitigate the effects of a changing climate isn't enough. If greenhouse gas emissions aren't reversed in the next few decades, it may be impossible for some countries to adapt to global warming. Rather than rattling its cup, Bangladesh should be pounding tables in Washington, Beijing, Brussels and Delhi.
Bangladesh has the unique moral authority to convince big polluters to change their ways: it is especially vulnerable to climate change and cannot be blamed for causing it. Scientists say that a one-meter rise in sea level could inundate 17 percent of its land mass.
Meanwhile, its annual carbon dioxide emissions are a paltry 0.3 metric tons per person (compared with 19.34 for the United States).
The regional security consequences of rendering uninhabitable this densely populated country of 158 million people would be severe. Where will Bangladeshis go? Not to India. That country has already ringed the border with barbed wire and machine guns. Australia? I don't think so.
According to the Bangladeshi government's climate change action plan, as many as 20 million Bangladeshis may need to be resettled as soon as 2050. "Preparations in the meantime will be made to convert this population into trained and useful citizens for any country," the plan (pdf) says. How many more will be displaced later this century or in the next one?
Unfortunately, Bangladesh's sense of urgency isn't felt elsewhere. One problem is that, despite media reports featuring supposed climate-change refugees, many effects of global warming aren't obvious. Migration has multiple causes, and the erosion of riverbanks is a fact of life here, at the delta of three major rivers. A recent British government report (pdf) cites just three mild "climate observations" in its summary on changing conditions in Bangladesh over the past few decades: "widespread warming" during both the hot season and the cool season since 1960, fewer cool nights and more warm ones and "a small increase in total precipitation."
To its credit, Bangladesh's action plan (pdf) doesn't make dramatic claims about the present effects of climate change. But the future perils are real. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Earth's temperature is likely to increase by between 2 and 4.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. According to the I.P.C.C., sea levels are expected to rise by between 0.18 and 0.59 meters during that time. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency goes further, noting that if polar ice continues to melt "in step with global average temperature," sea levels could increase by 0.49 to 0.79 meters by 2100.
Bangladesh can adapt to this increase in sea levels (pdf) at moderate expense by repairing, extending and better maintaining its 7,000 kilometer-long system of coastal dikes. The country is already conducting research into saline-resistant rice varieties.
But an increase in temperature of four degrees or more would likely unlock a series of so-called "positive feedbacks" that would speed the melting of Arctic ice and raise sea levels at rates that current computer modeling can't predict. Disappearing ice reveals the dark ocean surface, which in turn attracts more solar radiation, leading to increased warming. Melting permafrost could release long-stored greenhouse gases, and that, in turn, could bring greater warming, more melting and even higher sea levels. These positive feedbacks are immune to human effort: at some point, dikes and canals aren't enough to keep the ocean at bay.
That's why Bangladesh should take charge now, not to get money for adaptation, but to convince the United States, China, Europe and India to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Its leaders shouldn't be pacified with adaptation money. They should be raising hell.

        
Feral Cats and Social Indicators
        
Now Do You See the Smog?
        
A Sacred River Under Assault
        
A War Crimes Court and a Travesty of Justice
        
The Bridge to Nowhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); RIVERS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); EROSION (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); REFUGEES (65%) Bangladesh; climate change; Environment; Environmental Protection Agency; flooding; funding; Global Warming; pollution; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Ice; Levees and Dams; Politics and Government; Temperature; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; Asia

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%) Environmental Protection Agency; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (90%); DELHI, INDIA (56%) EARTH (79%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%) Bangladesh

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



876 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 2761 words

HEADLINE: Author Q&A: 'The Insurgency in Chechnya and the North Caucasus'

BYLINE: C. J. CHIVERS


HIGHLIGHT: Lt. Col. Robert W. Schaefer frames the long, dark Russian-Chechen fight in a new book that provides much needed understanding of the ongoing war in the North Caucasus. 

 BODY:
Today, for those who follow the North Caucasus or who keep up with books on conflict, we have a treat: a guest appearance on the blog from Lt. Col. Robert W. Schaefer, a Green Beret specializing in the Russian-speaking world.
Colonel Schaefer gave himself a task when he set out to research and write his first book, a deep dive on a long-running and inadequately covered war. It was this: He wanted to lift the latest Chechen war above the common descriptions that have defined it - as Exhibit A of an upstart population seeking independence from post-Soviet Russia, or as Exhibit B of a separatist struggle made toxic by a latter-day brand of militant Islam, or as Exhibit C in a war that had smoldered into dormancy. It is not that these descriptions do not contain elements of fact; it is that they are incomplete. They misapprehend the war by looking back only a few decades. Colonel Schaefer's book, "The Insurgency in Chechnya and the North Caucasus: From Gazavat to Jihad," (Praeger, 2011) places the war within the broader cyclical history of Chechen-Russian conflict, a history that goes back 400 years. In this, his book succeeds.
And from here the arguments begin. Colonel Schaefer is a proponent, student, practitioner and disciple of Western counterinsurgency thought. What you think of his assessments and conclusions, page by page, might well depend on how much counterinsurgency juice your stomach can handle. But let's leave aside arguments about counterinsurgency doctrine. Let's forget for a moment the mission creep that the counterinsurgency, or COIN, camp helped to lead the conventional American military into this past decade - an outcome that has made COIN, among many grunts, at least out where the wars are, and among many citizens who foot the bill, a four-letter word. Arguments about doctrine, discussions of other wars, need not intrude for the colonel's book to have a useful place. Why? Because his historical framing of the long, dark Russian-Chechen fight is enormously helpful in understanding the ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus, and the gnawing feeling of dread as Russia prepares to host the 2014 Winter Olympics at Chechnya's feet, at the Black Sea resort of Sochi.
A subtle and earnest analyst, Colonel Schaefer has done his homework. For several years, he has kept an almost unblinking eye on his theme. One strength of this long reflection, which lends his writing credibility, is that he has avoided taking sides. Whatever label you choose for Chechnya's underground fighters - separatists, terrorists, criminals, Islamists, opportunists, vengeance-seekers, accidental guerrillas, cornered men, some combination of the above - he has not been seduced. Nor does he embrace the Kremlin's and Russian power ministries' approach against their Chechen foes. (He variously respects and shakes his head at his counterparts in Russia.) Though in places he has marshaled familiar sources, he has managed to sidestep the familiar traps. His work is free of cynicism and romance. He does not need to see heroes on either side, and does not set out to argue their cases - he sees a war, and he is trying to break it into its parts, to better understand it. 
The result is that he has framed the struggle not as a recent phenomenon resulting from extraordinary circumstances - the collapse of the Soviet Union coinciding with the spread of violent, intolerant religious ideology - but as the latest manifestation of an enduring fight, which will resist short-term solutions. This is a valuable insight. It makes one wish military analysts had taken on the Afghan puzzle with similar energy, say, a decade or so back. Colonel Schaefer's insight is supported throughout the fascinating middle sections of the book, where he lays out the past methodically, spiking the read with nuggets worth saving. At one point, stepping past the factors that animate Chechen unrest, he explains why the struggle has been, again and again, a sadly doomed pursuit, no matter how many Russians are killed: the Chechens are a martial culture facing a brutal math.
"You can feel good about yourself if you are confident that as a man you can take on 10 enemy soldiers and win," he says of Chechnya's fighters. (Anyone who has met them will recognize that many of them do think this way - for good reason.) "You can feel good about your nation if you know that every one of your clansmen can do the same; but when the enemy has the resources and the national will (which was singularly lodged in the person of the czar) to send 11 soldiers for every one of your clansmen, eventually you'll have to run away or die fighting."
For the "czar" in the above passage, a current reader might substitute "Putin."
As Chechnya has dropped from a regular place in Western news reports - its near absence rooted in both reader fatigue with the conflict beat, as well as the suppression of journalism in Russia's North Caucasus badlands - Colonel Schaefer's book provides an overview that will last. He joins us today to answer a few questions, and offer his take on where he expects the fight to go as Russia prepares to host the Winter Olympics not far from the region that gave the world a chilling pattern of state-sponsored human rights abuses, and some of the worst terrorist acts of modern times.
Q.
 Let's begin with a bit of background about you. Tell us something of your career, and of what brought you to being such a strong supporter of the latest Western counterinsurgency doctrine.
A.
 I've been a Russian-speaking Green Beret since 1988, and since then I've deployed to almost every conflict the U.S. has been involved in - most of them multiple times. I started off my Special Forces career as a sergeant, but later I got my commission and a degree in Russian area studies and Russian language. I've spent a significant amount of time working with Russian and other post-Soviet militaries (Latvia, Estonia, Ukraine, Georgia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, etc) and subsequently got my master's degree from Harvard in their Russian, Eastern Europe and Central Asia program. Since then I've had a mix of diplomatic and operational assignments and I'm currently the chief of the Central and South Asia Branch for International Military Affairs at Army Central Command.
As for the latest doctrine, much of what we're reading in the "new" handbook is just updated material from the old USMC Small Wars handbook, and old SF field manuals. It's a good update, it's nice to have the doctrine in one place and it's great to have more academic studies included, but honestly, the basic doctrine hasn't changed. If you were to look at the Foreign Internal Defense (FID)/COIN plans and training I developed for the Georgians back in 2002 (before the new manual came out), you'd think I used the "latest" doctrine to develop it. As such, I became a strong supporter of the "new" doctrine starting in the mid-90's during operational deployments and all of my on-the-ground experience since then has continued to confirm its validity.
Q.
 What ultimately compelled you to invest such time and energy in trying to understand, and put into context, the latest Chechen wars?
A.
 Chechnya is where my two areas of expertise - insurgency/counterinsurgency and Russia - intersect. It started in 1999, when the second Chechen war started, and I was serving with the Russian airborne forces on deployment. Many of the Russians I was serving with had been involved in the first Chechen war and they took every opportunity to tell me about that experience. 
After 9/11, I was selected to be a primary planner and executor of the first mission of the "War on Terror," the Georgia Train and Equip Mission, designed to stop the Chechens from using the Pankisi Gorge in Georgia as a sanctuary. I developed all the COIN and counterterrorism training that was given to the Georgian government, developed the specialized COIN mission analysis for the mission and was responsible for much of the training given to the Georgians. Later, in graduate school, I used all of my previous experience and directed all my research towards different aspects of the conflict, covering everything from economics to tactics and much of that research is in the book.
But what motivated me to write the book were the reports in 2007 that the Chechen conflict was over. I found myself getting angry at reporters and saying things like, "There's no way it's over, don't you understand the history of the region, don't you understand insurgencies?" The answer, of course, was "no." Of course they didn't. What was blatantly obvious to me wasn't clear to everyone else because even the majority of U.S. military personnel and politicians didn't understand insurgencies at the time. So I dug out my old thesis and spent two additional years of research so I could make it obvious to everyone else as well. My plan was to publish it before the insurgency became effective again so that I could say definitively that I predicted it, but that proved impossible, especially with deployments and having a family.
Q.
 The footnotes mention meetings with Chechens involved in the wars. Tell us something of those meetings and how your sources helped you work.
A.
 I spoke with some of the Chechens in Europe, some in the United States, and some in the Caucasus. The most important thing that they provided me was context surrounding an event and pointing me in the right direction so I could find the same information from open sources. For this book, personal accounts were less important than showing people how to take all the puzzle pieces available to anyone through the open press and, using the COIN lens that I've presented, give them a chance to put the pieces together for themselves. Others have already written great accounts of what happened; my book is different in that it is the first time anyone has ever conducted an unclassified analysis of the conflict at the macro-level. This method is far more compelling than trying to present a case from personal accounts. 
Q.
 Some of your conclusions rest on data you have compiled in what you call the North Caucasus Incident Database. What is this database, and how did you build it?
A.
 I started the database at the end of 2007 because I didn't trust what I was reading - and because there weren't any other databases available at the time. The conflict was "over," remember? So I started keeping my own statistics from reliable news sources as a necessity. Very soon a picture began to emerge - it wasn't that the Russians were lying about the fatality figures, they just weren't telling the whole story. When one official would say something like "the number of our injuries this year has dropped compared to last year" he might be telling the truth. However, that police official would only be talking about his own group - and would leave out the information about soldiers or FSB [the successor to the KGB] agents being killed or wounded - which, when aggregated, showed an entirely different story than what was being disseminated by the Kremlin. It was very easy to see that the situation was much worse than they were telling anyone.
I still have the database, but it's not been updated since mid-2010. With the renewed violence in the region, new databases have popped up and they seem to be reliable.
Q.
 A great and enduring challenge of writing on the Caucasus is guarding against the biases of sources. Propagandists populate much of the public discourse on almost all themes in the region. In places in your book you have cited unmistakably partisan sources, such as The Jamestown Foundation, which makes no secret of its opposition to the post-Soviet Russian leadership, and has presented Chechen positions and leaders in favorable light. How have you guarded against biases?
A.
 I've also quoted material from sources that unabashedly believe that all Chechens are terrorists. I'm not sure there is any way to completely avoid partisan sources because the conflict is so mired in hyperbole and almost everyone seems to have taken a side. However, in general, I've always tried to use multiple sources for particularly important points, only use well-researched studies, or ensure that I used partisan sources in ways that don't help their cause. In the case of particularly controversial debates (the alleged FSB involvement in the Moscow apartment building bombings), I've gone out of my way to present just the facts and ensure that I include both sides of the issue; I also include plenty of references so readers can do their own research on the matter.
Unfortunately, I had to delete a significant number of footnotes to get the manuscript down to a manageable size. In so doing, I had to pick and choose which would stay, so I always tried to use sources that were fact-based. However, since my goal isn't to convince the reader to take a side, I lose nothing by including all aspects of an argument. One of the most important aspects of my book is demonstrating how the events themselves are less important than how those events were later framed by all sides to shape perception, ideologies, counter-ideologies and information operations. The book is specifically about the insurgency in the North Caucasus, but it is also a book about insurgency and counterinsurgency strategies in general.
Q.
 If you could propose solutions to alleviate the violence and unrest in the North Caucasus, what would they be?
A.
 The main problem is that the local population is more afraid of the security forces than they are of the insurgents and terrorists. So regardless of how well the Russians are winning on the information and ideological fronts, they will not be able to lower the level of violence until the population desires to have government security forces in the region to protect them. My biggest recommendation would be to pull all the police, border guards, soldiers, MVD [Ministry of Internal Affairs] and FSB personnel in the region and re-train them on how to treat the local population. Then I would recommend that commanders be held accountable for each and every human rights abuse and civilian disappearance in their region. 
Q.
 Where would Ramzan Kadyrov fit in your plans?
A.
 I would give him an offer he couldn't refuse and present him with a position in the Duma [the Russian Parliament]. Then I'd appoint someone outside of the Kadyrov family as governor for a few years until they could have free elections. 
Q.
 Knowing that the North Caucasus can be woefully unpredictable, we'll dare to ask, and put you on the spot: What do you expect for the next year or two in the region?
A.
 I predict that the insurgents will increase attacks by 6-8% in 2012 and another 8-10% in the first half of 2013. Then we'll see one of two things - either a precipitous drop or a huge spike in the number of attacks leading up to the Sochi Olympics in 2014. The level of violence in the last half of 2013 will be an indicator of the Emirate's [the rebels] objectives for the Olympics; if they want to create a spectacular terrorist attack, then attacks in the last half of 2013 will decrease, if they want to embarrass the Russians and disrupt the Olympics ahead of time (causing events to be cancelled or athletes to avoid the games because of security threats), then I think we'll see an increase in attacks in the Sochi area.
In Chechnya, the number of attacks will remain stable, but they'll continue to increase in Dagestan and (slightly) in Ingushetia. Violence will continue to creep westward towards Sochi, with a significant number of attacks occurring in Kabardino-Balkaria. Sochi will be relatively quiet in 2012 as the Emirate increases attacks in other areas to draw away Russian forces and keep them occupied elsewhere. However, I anticipate some small terrorist bombings in places as far east as Cherkessk, Maikop and Krasnodar starting in mid-2012. These will be confidence targets designed to show the locals around Sochi that the Emirate can conduct successful operations anywhere and anytime they please.
2013 will be an ugly year, as the Russians will pull out all the stops and try to hunt down every possible threat and eliminate it beforehand; cases of civilian disappearances will skyrocket. Although journalists will be allowed to visit the Sochi area to report on the infrastructure development and enjoy the weather, movement outside of approved areas will be forbidden. If you're a North Caucasian young man of dark complexion, I'd seriously think about moving to Turkey until the Olympics are over.

        
The Diary of a Killer in Chechnya

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WRITERS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); TERRORISM (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RESORTS (73%); OLYMPICS (60%); RELIGION (54%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%) Authors; Chechnya; North Caucasus; Q&A; Kadyrov, Ramzan; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Terrorism; KGB; Caucasus (Russia); Chechnya (Russia); Russia; At War; History

ORGANIZATION: KGB

PERSON: Kadyrov, Ramzan

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Caucasus (Russia); Chechnya (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



877 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $9.5 Million

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: A 7,000-square-foot, four-bedroom apartment that was owned by the director M. Night Shyamalan was first listed for $18.5 million in 2010. 

 BODY:
The director M. Night Shyamalan - whose breakthrough film, "The Sixth Sense," told the story of a boy empowered to see and talk to the dead - was finally able to commune with a living buyer for his TriBeCa penthouse after more than a year, selling it for $9.5 million, the biggest sale of the past week, according to city records.
Mr. Shyamalan's 7,000-square-foot, four-bedroom apartment, at 45 Walker Street, first hit the market in the fall of 2010 with an $18.5 million price tag. After six months with little action, Mr. Shyamalan switched brokerage firms, moving to Raphael De Niro at Prudential Douglas Elliman from Brown Harris Stevens. Several price cuts later, Mr. De Niro was able to close the deal.
The purchase was made through a limited liability company. Mr. De Niro said only that the buyer was someone in the financial industry who wished to remain anonymous.
The apartment is both luxurious and spacious, with a large terrace, glass mosaic floors and a "floating limestone staircase." But it faced several hurdles in attracting wealthy buyers.
Although access is through a privately keyed elevator, it is in a no-doorman building. "That is problematic for some buyers at this price," Mr. De Niro said.
It is also east of Church Street, on the outskirts of TriBeCa's most moneyed area. "It is somewhat of a pioneering location," Mr. De Niro said.
Although the sale price is about half what he first asked, Mr. Shyamalan still proved to have something of a sixth sense when it came to investing in New York real estate, making a $3.2 million profit on the apartment, which he bought in 2003 for $6.3 million.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $11,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $14 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $6,900,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.79 million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (69%) Big Ticket; real estate; TriBeCa; De Niro, Raphael; Shyamalan, M Night; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate; TriBeCa (NYC); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: De Niro, Raphael; Shyamalan, M Night

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) TriBeCa (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



878 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2189 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
New Normal on Wall Street: Smaller and Restrained | With firms like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley reporting weak results for last year, Wall Street is having to confront doubts about itself.
Is this a temporary slump? Or will the moneymakers never get to go back to their high-rolling ways? Many on Wall Street had hoped 2011 would be a year when the investment banks showed that they could still make solid profits in the more sober financial environment that has followed the 2008 crisis.
Instead, Goldman Sachs's earnings fell 67 percent last year; Bank of America's investment banking operation, which includes Merrill Lynch, suffered a 53 percent decline in net income; and Morgan Stanley's earnings were down by 42 percent.
"No matter how you cut it, the Goldman Sachs of tomorrow is not going to be the Goldman Sachs of 1999, when it did its I.P.O., or the Goldman Sachs of 2006, when it was at the high point of the cycle," said Brad Hintz, a senior analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
At Goldman Sachs, Tweeting Ain't Easy | The Financial Times has a profile of the @GSElevator Twitter account, which claims to tweet snippets of dialogue overheard at Goldman Sachs.
"I have been out socially with people where a story is prefaced with 'this better not end up on @GSElevator'," the anonymous poster told the newspaper. "I'm obviously very careful to avoid posting anything that could ever get back to me. So unfortunately, there are some gems that I just can't ever publish."
FINANCIAL TIMES
Davos Badge Cheat Sheet | Felix Salmon at Reuters has a clippable guide to the various badges worn by attendees at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
REUTERS
Antitrust Concerns in Paperless Ticketing | Albert A. Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, who was recently profiled in DealBook, writes in a column in The New York Times that the restrictions imposed by paperless tickets represent an effort to stifle competition. 
NEW YORK TIMES
Occupy London to Appeal Ruling Against Campsite | The move comes after a court sided with city authorities, who had called on the protestors to leave the colorful campsite that encircles the entrance to St. Paul's Cathedral, located in the heart of London's financial district.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
China's Sovereign Wealth Fund Buys Minority Stake in British Utility | The China Investment Corporation announced on Friday that it had acquired an 8.68 percent stake in Britain's Thames Water in its first investment in the country.
DealBook 
A Jedi of Deals Brings His Magic Back to Morgan Stanley | In September, Charles Cory, a longtime deal maker, returned to California to help run the firm's technology banking practice; since then, he has led a flurry of deals.
DealBook 
Capital One Expects to Complete ING Direct Deal Soon | Appearing to overcome consumer opposition, the bank's chief executive says Capital One "is on track" to complete the ING Direct takeover in the first quarter.
DealBook 
Icahn Heads for Face-Off With Falcone | Carl C. Icahn has been buying debt of LightSquared, the wireless company run by Philip A. Falcone, potentially putting the two distressed debt investors on a collision course, The Wall Street Journal writes.
"Carl is certainly entitled to his opinion, as I am entitled to disagree with it," Mr. Falcone told The Journal.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Law Firms Merge to Survive | With business slow, mergers between law practices are increasing, as the 60 tie-ups in the United States and abroad last year was a 54 percent jump from 2010, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
British Law Firms in Merger Talks | Pinsent Masons is negotiating a merger with McGrigors, amid a recent flurry of deal talk among law practices, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Axa Said to Be in Talks for HSBC Unit | Axa, the European insurer, and Ace, based in Zurich, are among bidders for the non-life insurance division of HSBC Holdings, which could fetch around $1 billion, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Germany's Talanx to Buy Polish Insurer | Talanx, the Hanover-based insurance company, agreed to buy Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta, Poland's second-largest insurer, for $999 million, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barbican Makes New Offer for Omega | The hedge fund backing Barbican Insurance, a syndicate of Lloyd's, offered to take over Omega Insurance, a rival, calling the proposed deal a "merger of equals," The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
New York Fed Sells $7 Billion in A.I.G. Assets to Credit Suisse | The New York Fed's decision to sell the Maiden Lane assets was started by an offer from Goldman Sachs earlier this month.
DealBook 
At Credit Suisse, Toxic Bonuses Beat Stock | The $5.05 billion of junk-rated investments that Credit Suisse doled out to employees in late 2008 as part of their bonuses have climbed 75 percent through Nov. 30, while the firm's shares have declined 23 percent, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Societe Generale Cuts Weigh on Paris | Job cuts at the French bank, which come even as the firm finishes construction of a $321 million glass-front building, are a "symbol" of broader woes in French banking, said Olivier Godechot, a sociologist at the National Center for Scientific Research, of Paris, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Central Bank to Recover Most of Its Lehman Loans | An effort of more than three years to unwind Lehman Brothers assets will recover almost all the $11 billion that the central bank stood to lose.
DealBook 
Pandit Gets $3.7 Million in Stock | The stock bonus for Vikram S. Pandit, chief executive of Citigroup, was among nearly $25 million of such awards for 12 executives of the firm, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Santander Director to Get $72 Million Pension | Francisco Luzon, who runs the Americas division of the Spanish bank, is retiring after 15 years as an executive director, with a pension of about 56 million euros, or roughly $72 million, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Goldman Bonus Day | Many employees had been dreading "Compensation Communication Day," on Thursday, and for good reason. The firm announced on Wednesday that its revenue in 2011 was down significantly, probably bringing bonuses down with it.
DealBook 
Details of Wall St. Pay Stay Hidden | While firms report average pay, there's much the public doesn't know, like which divisions take home the most compensation, writes Ryan McCarthy in a column in Reuters.
REUTERS
Commerzbank Says it Can Do Without State Aid | The German lender said it was more than halfway toward meeting its capital goal, predicting it would reach it by a June 30 deadline, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Officials Consider Sanctioning Iranian Bank | The European Union is weighing a plan to freeze assets of Bank Tejarat, an Iranian bank financing activity on the Continent, as officials try to pressure Iran to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons program, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Schwarzman Said to Keep His Finances Private | Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group, restructured part of his 14.1 percent stake in BankUnited so that he would not have to disclose information about his personal finances to the Federal Reserve, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Biggest Buyout Ever Looks Particularly Grim | The $43.2 billion leveraged buyout by K.K.R. and TPG Capital of the TXU Corporation in 2007, the largest such deal in history, continues to receive skepticism from investors, who are pricing in a 91 percent chance the company, now known as Energy Future Holdings, will default, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Carlyle Cuts Stake in Chinese Insurer | The Carlyle Group sold 18 million shares in China Pacific Insurance, the country's third-largest insurer, raising about $57 million and putting its stake below 5 percent, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
TPG in Chinese Sportswear Deal | TPG Capital, along with the Singapore sovereign wealth fund, plan to invest about $115 million in Li Ning, a Chinese maker of sportswear, through a convertible bond, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Greece Inches Toward a Deal With Its Bondholders | A compromise seems to be at hand over how much of a loss investors should take on just over 200 billion euros in Greek government bonds.
DealBook 
Och-Ziff and York Claim No Material Greek Holdings | Och-Ziff Capital Management and York Capital Management said they have no material holdings of Greek sovereign debt, and are not involved in the restructuring talks, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Hedge Funds Hit With Net Withdrawals | Investors pulled out roughly $127 million from hedge funds in the fourth quarter of last year, according to data from Hedge Fund Research, becoming the first time since the second quarter of 2009 that the industry had seen net withdrawals, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Jana Partners Discloses 5.5 Percent Marathon Stake | The hedge fund is the biggest shareholder in the Marathon Petroleum Corporation, one of the largest American refiners, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Angry Birds Creator Sees No I.P.O. This Year | An executive of Rovio, the Finnish company that makes the Angry Birds game, told Reuters that 2012 is "way too early for an I.P.O.," but added that Hong Kong is an "interesting" venue for an eventual offering.
REUTERS
Facebook Still Has Some Growing Up to Do | While Facebook receives plenty of favorable buzz, an I.P.O. will introduce a new constituency of investors who are likely to be less patient with a long-term strategy, The Wrap writes.
WRAP
First I.P.O. of the Year Closes Up 1 Percent | Shares of the Renewable Energy Group, an biofuel company based in Ames, Iowa, rose to $10.10 from an initial price of $10, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Web Start-Up Financing Hits 10-Year High | Last year, $6.9 billion of venture capital was invested in 997 Internet company deals, the highest level in a decade, even as financing dropped off toward the end of the year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers and the National Venture Capital Association, GigaOm reports.
GIGAOM
In Israel, Start-Ups Struggle to Mature | While the country has been labeled the "start-up nation," Israel has yet to produce a technology titan like Google, as the most promising companies tend to be bought by American giants, The Economist writes.
ECONOMIST
African Americans Lag in Entrepreneurship | After the recession inflicted losses of wealth and jobs on the black middle class, some business leaders say the creation of new businesses is crucial for a recovery, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Bankrupt, Kodak Vows to Rebound | The film pioneer has been trying to reinvent itself for years; some skeptics see liquidation as more likely.
DealBook 
Yet Another Insider Trading Case Begins to Unfold | White Collar Watch examines the next steps in the government's insider trading case against a "circle of friends" that prosecutors say included a co-founder of the Level Global hedge fund.
DealBook 
The F.B.I.'s Master of Persuasion | David Makol, an F.B.I. agent who specializes in "flipping" people, or convincing them to gather information against their friends, has played a crucial role in the government's crackdown on insider trading, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Deutsche Executive Said to Have Asked to Alter Numbers | As the financial crisis was unfolding, a junior analyst at Deutsche Bank resisted pressure from a mid-level executive to make an investment look less risky to credit ratings agencies, ProPublica reports, citing an unnamed person with knowledge of the matter.
PROPUBLICA
Fed to Wait and See on Bond Purchases | Federal Reserve officials are likely to hold off for now on a new round of bond purchases, as they wait to judge the health of the economy, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
To Sir, With Regret | The British government may strip Frederick A. Goodwin of his knighthood because of his role as chief executive in the failure of the Royal Bank of Scotland, which had to be bailed out by the government.
DealBook 
Olympus Holds On to Listing | The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it would keep Olympus shares listed while imposing a $129.7 million fine on the camera maker for falsifying documents to hide losses, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Stanford Investors in Waiting Game | Since February 2009, when the Securities and Exchange Commission shut down the business of R. Allen Stanford, who is accused of a $7 billion fraud, investors have received nothing, Bloomberg News writes. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (76%); MERGERS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (83%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (69%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



879 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; global

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Europe Downgrades Ratings Agencies

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Amid a growing backlash over the power of the international ratings agencies, calls rise to set up a home-grown alternative to the U.S.-based big three - S.&#038;P., Moody's, and Fitch. In the meantime, central bankers say, pay them less attention. 

 BODY:
PARIS - The sting caused by Standard & Poor's downgrade of nine euro zone countries and the euro zone's temporary bailout fund is not mellowing with time. 
There is a growing backlash in Europe over the power of the international ratings agencies, including calls to set up a home-grown alternative to the U.S.-based big three - S.&P., Moody's Investors Service Inc., and Fitch Ratings - and advice from central bankers that investors, in the meantime, pay them less attention.
In a speech in Tokyo on Friday, Michel Barnier, European Commissioner for internal market and services, said the agencies needed to be more transparent and financial institutions were "much too reliant on ratings, which should be reduced."
Mr. Barnier had previously lashed out at S.&P. in his Twitter feed where he said he was astonished by the timing of the downgrades and at an assessment that ignored progress being made.
Je suis etonne du moment choisi par S&P pour degrader des pays de la zone euro et de son evaluation qui ne reflete pas les progres actuels
- Michel Barnier (@michelbarnier) January 14, 2012
The response has been particularly fierce in France. Writing in Le Monde on Friday, Alain Frachon said the agencies should have been written off after their role in awarding investment grade ratings to junk investments. 
"Sub primes, wonderful savings products so warmly recommended by the wonderful ratings agencies, provoked the worst financial crisis the world had known since the thirties," Mr Frachon wrote.
France saw its rating downgraded one notch from a perfect AAA on January 13,
A popular French view is that the downgrade is the latest act in a nefarious Anglo-Saxon plot, directed from New York and London, to do down the euro. But that ignores the fact that some British voices are also being raised against the agencies.
As my colleague Julia Werdigier reported from London, Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, told a parliamentary committee this week that one should "put less focus directly on what the ratings agencies say and more on what the market as a whole is saying in terms of sovereign debt."
On Friday,Philip Stephens wrote in the London-based Financial Times: "I keep hearing people say don't blame the rating agencies. My first reaction is why not? After due and sober reflection my considered response is why the hell not?"
On the political front, Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, said talks on creating a European agency have been accelerated. "We need a European competitor. That's not only good for the euro, our currency. That's also good for transparency," Mr Westerwelle said.
The agencies did get a degree of support, however, from Germany's conservative Die Welt newspaper. "It is not the agencies that are the cause of the crisis," the paper wrote. "Rather, it is the imbalances in the current accounts of euro zone countries and the poor crisis management of EU leaders."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); EURO ZONE (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (60%) Barnier, Michel; King, Mervyn A; Westerwelle, Guido; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Bank of England; Fitch Ratings; Moody's Investors Service Inc; Standard & Poor's Corp; Europe; View From Europe; E Crisis

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (72%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of England; Fitch Ratings; Moody's Investors Service Inc; Standard & Poor's Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: Barnier, Michel; King, Mervyn A; Westerwelle, Guido

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (57%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



880 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: The Choice on 'Today': Tips on Fafsa, and Net-Price Calculators

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG


HIGHLIGHT: NBC's morning show focuses this morning on a topic of much discussion around kitchen tables, particularly among families with high school seniors. 

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
The Choice blog occasionally collaborates with NBC's "Today'' show on college admissions segments, and in our latest installment, Matt Lauer focused this morning on the hot-stove topic of the season for many families: financial aid. 
Monica Inzer, dean of admission and financial aid at Hamilton College in upstate New York, joined me in answering questions about the new net-price tuition calculators (our consensus: don't put too much stock in the results); financial aid for the middle class (the packages offered by some elite private colleges, including those of the Ivy League, can sometimes be more generous than people realize) and the importance of filling out the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, even if you feel certain you won't qualify for aid (you may be surprised). 
You can add tips of your own using the comment box below. And our thanks, yet again, to Antoinette Machiaverna of the "Today'' show, who produces these segments. For those wishing to learn more, the Web sites FinAid.org and FastWeb.com are a great place to start, as are our recent Q. and A.'s with Mark Kantrowitz, the founder of those sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%) Admissions Standards; National Broadcasting Co; Paying Your Way

ORGANIZATION: National Broadcasting Co

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012



881 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: A Raucous Hazing at a Wall St. Fraternity

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: Kappa Beta Phi, an exclusive Wall Street fraternity, attracted big-name bankers, hedge fund billionaires and private equity titans to its 80th annual black-tie dinner and induction ceremony. 

 BODY:
The chandelier-filled ballroom was teeming with 200 men in tuxedos - and a smattering of women - whose daily decisions can collectively make or break the global financial markets. Most were picking over a lavish dinner that included rack of lamb and creme brulee. Others were preparing to sing bawdy show tunes.
Kappa Beta Phi, an exclusive Wall Street fraternity whose members include big-name bankers, hedge fund billionaires and private equity titans, met at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan on Thursday night for its 80th annual black-tie dinner and induction ceremony.
As always, the event was held in strict secrecy, with members being told that "what happens at the St. Regis stays at the St. Regis."
A reporter, however, was able to walk in unquestioned and observe the proceedings.
Neither a rough year in the financial markets nor the animus of the Occupy Wall Street movement was enough to dampen spirits at this year's dinner, which was attended by members like Alan C. Greenberg, known as Ace, the former chairman of Bear Stearns; Robert H. Benmosche, the chairman of the American International Group; Meredith Whitney of the Whitney Advisory Group; and Martin Lipton, founding partner of the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
The Occupy movement was fodder for several after-dinner skits. In one, a documentary filmed during the protests, James Lebenthal, a bond specialist, joked with a protester whose face was appeared to be tattooed.
"Go home, wash that off your face, and get back to work," Mr. Lebenthal told the protester.
Reached through his daughter on Friday, Mr. Lebenthal declined to comment.
In another skit, William Mulrow , a senior managing director at the Blackstone Group, put on raggedy clothes to play the part of an Occupy protester. Emil W. Henry Jr., a managing partner at Tiger Infrastructure Partners and a fellow new Kappa, joined him dressed as a wealthy baron.
"Bill, look at you! You're pathetic, you liberal! You need a bath!" Mr. Henry said, voice full of mock indignation.
"You callow, insensitive Republican!" Mr. Mulrow said. "Don't you know we need to create jobs?"
A Blackstone spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Mulrow's behalf. Mr. Henry was not immediately available for comment.
The night's agenda was twofold: install officers for the coming year and haze incoming members by having them don wigs, gold-sequined skirts and skin-tight tops and put on a comedic variety show for the enjoyment of other members.
Among the 21 inductees featured in the variety show were Marc Lasry, the billionaire founder of the Avenue Capital Group, Warren Stephens, the chief of Stephens Inc. and Ted Virtue, the chief executive of MidOcean Partners.
Kappa Beta Phi, which started in 1929 as a group of Wall Street bigwigs whose social club was named as a send-up of Phi Beta Kappa, the honor society, has become a sort of upper-crust Friar's Club roast.
The group's leadership consists of a "Grand Swipe," "Grand Smudge," "Grand Loaf," and a "Master-at-Arms."
Some members wear the group's insignia, which consists of a beer stein, a Champagne glass, a pointing hand and five stars. The group's Latin motto, "Dum vivamus edimus et biberimus," roughly translates as "While we live, we eat and drink."
Members pay $475 a year in dues for the invitation-only group, according to a person who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Absent from this year's gathering were Wall Street exiles like Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers; James E. Cayne, the former chief of Bear Stearns; and Jon S. Corzine, the former Goldman Sachs head who presided over the failed brokerage firm MF Global. All are still listed in the group's member directory, though the men are said not to have attended in a few years.
Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the billionaire investor who served as this year's Grand Swipe, acknowledged the foibles of those prominent Kappas.
"We have members from every firm that has failed, as well as members from those that will fail in the future," he said to loud laughter.
After Mr. Ross's opening remarks and a presentation by representatives from the group's Los Angeles chapter, the inductees broke into their variety acts.
Some jokes took aim at industry outsiders like Representative Barney Frank, the Democrat of Massachusetts who has been an advocate of financial regulation. But most Kappas roasted fellow financiers.
Mr. Corzine, the latest of the prominent Kappas to fall from grace, proved an inviting target. Two initiates did a comedy act lampooning Mr. Corzine and Steven A. Cohen, a prominent hedge fund manager whose firm, SAC Capital Advisors, has had some former employees who have been ensnared in recent insider-trading investigations. (Neither Mr. Cohen, who is not a Kappa, nor Mr. Corzine has been accused of any wrongdoing.)
"What do Steve Cohen and Jon Corzine have in common?" the joke went. "They're future cellmates!"
The bulk of the entertainment came in the form of musical spoofs.
Inductees sang Wall Street-themed versions of "Mama, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys," (replacing "cowboys" with "traders") and Abba's "Dancing Queen" (which was retitled "Bailout King"). Mr. Lasry, along with two other inductees, dressed as a member of the Village People for a financial rendition of "Y.M.C.A." Mr. Lasry declined to comment.
As is customary during Kappa events, some audience members threw objects at performers on stage, including petit fours and napkins dipped in wine.
Kappa Beta Phi's gatherings have become divisive among members in recent years. Some Wall Street executives, wary of taking part in an event that could be construed as tone-deaf to the economic woes facing the country, are choosing not to attend.
"The skits can be offensive and I don't want to sit through it," said one fraternity member who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Ross defended Kappa Beta Phi on the grounds that the same freedom of speech rights afforded to Occupy Wall Street should be extended to the group's members.
"This is not a political convention," he said by telephone on Friday. "It's a group of people that are friendly with each other trying to have an enjoyable evening, mostly at each others' expense."
While they may not want to attract attention publicly, the members of Kappa Beta Phi are privately finding humor in their vilification. As the night's musical finale, the entire group of inductees changed into white dress shirts and dark ties to sing a parody of "I Believe," a song from the hit Broadway show "The Book of Mormon."
In the original version of the song, a down-and-out Mormon missionary offers a passionate defense of his faith. On this night, though, the financiers turned it into a playful paean to their industry. ("I believe that the Lord God created Wall Street. I believe he got his only son a job at Goldman Sachs.")
Off-key and raucous, the financiers raised their voices once more.
"I work on Wall Street. And Wall Street just believes."

        
Ace Greenberg Really Doesn't Like Jimmy Cayne
        
As Regulators Pressed Changes, Corzine Pushed Back, and Won

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BONDS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOVIE FILMING (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); JOB CREATION (50%) Ace Greenberg; Alan C. Greenberg; Emil Henry; James E. Cayne; James Lebenthal; Jon S. Corzine; Kappa Beta Phi; Marc Lasry; Martin Lipton; Richard S. Fuld; Robert Benmosche; Robert H. Benmosche; Steven A. Cohen; Ted Virtue; Wall Street; Warren Stephens; Wilbur L. Ross Jr.; Wilbur Ross; William Mulrow; Benmosche, Robert H; Greenberg, Alan C; Lipton, Martin; Ross, Wilbur L Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Hazing; Private Equity; St Regis Hotel (NYC); Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Wealth

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (83%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); STEPHENS INC (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: St Regis Hotel (NYC)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (73%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (90%); JIMMY CAYNE (76%); MEREDITH WHITNEY (72%); JAMES E CAYNE (70%); STEVEN COHEN (56%); STEVEN A COHEN (56%); JON CORZINE (51%); RICHARD S FULD (51%) Benmosche, Robert H; Greenberg, Alan C; Lipton, Martin; Ross, Wilbur L Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



882 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Jan. 20, 1981 | Iran Releases American Hostages as Reagan Takes Office

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Jan. 20, 1981, Iran released 52 Americans who had been held hostage for 444 days, minutes after the presidency had passed from Jimmy Carter to Ronald Reagan. 

 BODY:
On Jan. 20, 1981, Iran released 52 Americans who had been held hostage for 444 days, minutes after the presidency had passed from Jimmy Carter to Ronald Reagan. The hostages were placed on a plane in Tehran as Reagan delivered his inaugural address.
The New York Times said that Reagan's address "made no reference at all to the long-awaited release of the hostages" as he was "apparently following a self-imposed restraint of not saying anything until the Americans had left Iranian air space." 
Reagan announced the release of the hostages later in the afternoon at a Congressional luncheon. "The news seemed to turn the inauguration celebration, normally a highly festive occasion, into an event of unbridled joy for Mr. Reagan and his supporters," The Times wrote.

The Iran Hostage Crisis had begun on Nov. 4, 1979, when a group of several hundred militant Islamic students broke into the United States embassy in Tehran and took its occupants hostage. The students initially intended to hold the hostages for only a short time, but changed their plans when their act garnered widespread praise in Iran. Ayatollah Khomeini, leader of the 1979 Iranian Revolution and the country's supreme leader, was among the supporters.
In response, President Carter imposed economic sanctions on Iran. In April 1980, he authorized a rescue mission, Operation Eagle Claw, conducted by the U.S. military. The mission failed badly, as two U.S. aircraft collided, killing eight military personnel. The prolonged crisis came to reflect poorly on Mr. Carter, who was seen as weak for failing to secure the hostages' release. Ronald Reagan's defeat of President Carter in the 1980 presidential election happened to fall on the one-year anniversary of the hostage-taking. 
Mr. Carter continued to negotiate for the hostages' release until the end of his term of office. Finally, on Jan. 19, 1981, Algerian-mediated talks between the U.S. and Iran produced an agreement to end the crisis. 
Connect to Today:
The United States and Iran have maintained a generally hostile relationship since the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Relations have further deteriorated in recent years because of the Iranian government's suppression of dissent in the 2009 elections and Iran's alleged nuclear development. In November 2011, the United Nations released evidence that Iran may be developing a nuclear device, which has prompted economic penalties against the country from the United States and other Western countries.
On Jan. 11, 2012, as tensions increased over Iran's nuclear program, the country reported that an Iranian nuclear scientist died in what was termed a "terrorist bomb blast" in northern Tehran when an unidentified motorcyclist attached a magnetic explosive device to the scientist's car. Officials denounced Israel and the U.S. and called for retaliation for the killing. According to a Jan. 12 article in The New York Times, "the scientists' deaths are part of what current and former American officials and specialists on Iran have called an accelerating covert campaign of assassinations, bombings, defections and digital attacks, which they believe has been carried out mainly by Israel in an effort to subvert Iran's nuclear program." 
Earlier that week, Iran announced that it had sentenced a U.S.-born former Marine from Flint, Mich., to death for allegedly spying for the C.I.A. 
Do you think incidents like these could lead to full-scale war? Why or why not? What, if anything, do you think can be done to prevent the escalation of tension between Iran and the United States?
Learn more about what happened in history on January 20 
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Nov. 16, 1933 | U.S. Establishes Diplomatic Relations With the Soviet Union
        
Oct. 6, 1981 | Egypt's Anwar Sadat Is Killed
        
Talking About a Two-State Solution
        
Dec. 14, 1981 | Israel Annexes Former Syrian Territory of Golan Heights
        
Dec. 7, 1941 | Japan Attacks Pearl Harbor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); RELIGION (53%) foreign policy; Global Conflicts; global politics; Iran; Middle East; Presidents and Presidency (US) (Des);; Historic Headlines

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



883 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Reformer to Insider

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: While Rick Santorum was known as a reformer as a freshman congressman, he later climbed to become a member of the establishment he decried. 

 BODY:
Today's Times:

        
As a fresh-faced congressman, Rick Santorum made a name for himself as a reformer. But an examination of his political career shows he emerged a savvy member of the Washington establishment he once denounced, Sheryl Gay Stolberg reports.

        
Newt Gingrich's campaign got a boost Thursday as Gov. Rick Perry of Texas exited the race, but he also faced a damaging claim from his ex-wife that he had asked her for an open marriage, which he denied, Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg report.

        
While many Americans assumed that their tax rate is higher than Mitt Romney's, most households probably pay less, and that disconnect between what Americans pay and what they think they pay is a major economic problem, David Leonhardt writes.

        
President Obama traveled to Walt Disney World on Thursday to announce measures to draw more foreign tourists to the United States, then headed to New York for campaign fund-raisers. It's the kind of schedule that's becoming routine for the president as the campaign season revs up, Jackie Calmes reports.

        
The Iowa Republican Party certified Thursday that Mr. Santorum had received more votes than Mr. Romney but hesitated to call him the winner. Nate Silver answers whether it's safe to assume Mr. Santorum won - and whether it matters.
Washington Happenings:

        
Mr. Obama will meet Friday with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and attend a campaign event in Washington.

        
The National Association of Realtors releases existing home sales for December, and the American Petroleum Institute reports its numbers on oil and gas demand for December.

        
Freedom to Marry, an organization that advocates for same-sex marriage, launches Mayors for the Freedom to Marry at the U.S. Conference of Mayors, featuring the mayors of Los Angeles, San Diego, Boston, Houston and Tacoma, Wash.

        
On Friday, the Occupy Wall Street movement will stage "Occupy the Courts," a day of protests at federal courthouses across the country. Demonstrators will dress as Supreme Court justices and sing and dance to music by The Supremes before giving speeches outside the U.S. Supreme Court.

        
The Early Word: Sticking With It
        
The Early Word: Romney Rising
        
The Early Word: Replaced
        
The Early Word: Rivals
        
The Early Word: Optimism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); EXISTING HOME SALES (64%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (61%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (56%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



884 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Pipeline Project Emerges as Marker in Tax Fight

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: As their annual retreat, House Republicans plot ways to blunt the president's efforts to run for re-election by running against Congress. 

 BODY:
1:55 p.m. | Updated BALTIMORE - House Republicans, undaunted by the payroll tax holiday debacle that dinged their conference last month, said Friday that they were considering using the Keystone XL Pipeline as a chip in the next round of negotiations over the tax break, as part of their overall efforts to push back against White House policies this year. 
"We are going to be looking at every option to keep this issue at the forefront," said Representative Fred Upton of Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce committee and a member of the bicameral conference committee tasked with coming up with a bill to extend the payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits through the rest of the year. 
Mr. Upton said that reviving the 1,700-mile pipeline project, which would stretch from Canada to the Gulf Coast and which President Obama rejected this week for now, would likely be a contingency Republicans would seek in the tax break negotiations. "Certainly that is within the scope of the conference," he said.
Mr. Upton made his remarks at a news conference at the House Republican retreat in Baltimore, where his party is plotting its agenda for the second session of the 112th Congress. High on the to-do list of the members, many of whom ditched their suits and ties for bright colored sweaters and too-large jeans, is to relentlessly push back against Mr. Obama's policies, beginning with Keystone and extending to the budget process. 
Upending Mr. Obama administration's decision on Keystone, which Speaker John A. Boehner said this week was "not the end of the fight," is one of the central goals of the Republican agenda this year. Republicans chose to highlight the issue in their first news conference here, and this week sent out e-mail blasts highlighting all the editorials from around the country criticizing the president's decision and drawing attention to Congressional Democrats who oppose it. 
"We're going to do everything we can to keep in on the front burner" Mr. Upton said. 
However, using Keystone as a bargaining chip in the negotiations to extend the payroll tax will likely not be fruitful; Democrats on the committee are likely to reject the idea out of hand, and Republicans will have to use legislation in their chamber to further push the matter. 
Further, Mr. Boehner has told his members here that if stand-alone legislation does not come to fruition, a Keystone amendment would likely be attached to a coming bill to improve American infrastructure, almost certainly igniting a new battle with Democrats. 
 The retreat, with its central focus on beating back Mr. Obama's attempts to essentially run against Congress as he campaigns for re-election, is a marked departure from the 2010 getaway here, when Mr. Obama combatively addressed Republicans as their guest, a year before the party took control of the House. 
"What happens is that you guys don't have a lot of room to negotiate with me," said Mr. Obama at the time, presaging two more years of intense political battles that more than once led the country to near disaster. "The fact of the matter is, many of you, if you voted with the administration on something, are politically vulnerable with your own base, with your own party, because what you've been telling your constituents is, 'This guy's doing all kinds of crazy stuff that's going to destroy America.' "
In remarks to the press Friday, Mr. Boehner said that he would press committee chairmen this year to aggressively oversee the Obama administration's policies, "and help the American people understand, and help frankly other members of Congress understand, the devastating impact of these policies on our economy." 
Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, who is chairman of the House Republican Conference, said that when President Obama was inaugurated three years ago on Friday, "he promised the American people hope and change."
"And now we see a nation that has lost hope, but they have seen the change," he said.
While Mr. Boehner said he hoped that some new job-creating laws could be passed on a bipartisan manner this year, much of the talk from Republican leaders was sharply critical of Mr. Obama, and pointed to the president's planned trips to swing states in coming weeks as overtly political. 
"I may have been born at night," Mr. Boehner said. "But it wasn't last night."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (54%) Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack; Upton, Fred; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Baltimore (Md); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: FRED UPTON (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack; Upton, Fred

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Baltimore (Md)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



885 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Four Years Ago, Romney's Wealth Was Not an Issue

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's wealth, a source of contention in his second run for the presidency, was barely mentioned in his first. 

 BODY:
In 2008, Mitt Romney willingly -- and publicly -- tapped into his personal fortune to run for president, pumping nearly $45 million directly into his political campaign.
There could not have been a more visible demonstration of the economic distance between Mr. Romney and the middle-class citizens he sought to lead as president.
Despite that, his vast wealth never really became a serious issue in the 2008 campaign. Few people demanded that he release his tax returns or made a big issue out of his role at a private equity firm. When a candidate was mocked for not knowing how many homes he owned, it was Senator John McCain, the eventual nominee, not Mr. Romney.
Four years later, Mr. Romney's second bid for the White House has been consumed by questions about the money he has made and his awkward and halting efforts to explain the impact of his wealth to his supporters and rivals.
He has been mocked for pulling $100 bills out of his wallet and laughed at by hecklers as he tried to defend corporations. He has been called a "vulture capitalist" by fellow Republicans and described by Democrats as laughingly out of touch for clumsily trying to make a $10,000 bet during a debate. Demands for his tax returns have been met with hesitant, uncertain answers that have exacerbated the issue.
And all that during an election in which he consciously has chosen not to use his own money as a source of campaign cash.
Why the difference? Two things have changed in the last four years.
The first was out of Mr. Romney's control: an economic upheaval that exposed longstanding financial inequalities in the country between the wealthy and the middle class.
The second change was Mr. Romney's reaction to that upheaval. As he prepared to run for president in a changed economic environment, Mr. Romney decided to cast himself in a new role, as a conservative whose campaign would be seen as a crusade on behalf of the middle class.
"If I'm going to use precious dollars to reduce taxes, I want to focus on where the people are hurting the most, and that's the middle class," Mr. Romney said during a debate in October. "I'm not worried about rich people."
In December, during a speech to a Jewish organization in Washington, Mr Romney added, "The poor have a safety net and the rich are doing just fine, but middle-income Americans have never seen things so bad."
Together, the two changes have conspired to illuminate the stark reality of Mr. Romney's wealth in contrast to the struggles of average Americans, an issue that would have been just as true four years ago but remained in the background, hazy and undiscussed.
Now, it is crystal clear, and Mr. Romney is struggling.
His campaign advisers dismiss any pop psychology that tries to get inside of Mr. Romney's head. They say he's not uncomfortable talking about his own wealth, and they insist that they always anticipated the discussion about taxes, his time at Bain Capital and other questions about his wealth.
And yet, Mr. Romney's fumbles during an otherwise disciplined campaign seem to all revolve around his money.
During the Fox News debate on Monday night, he meandered through his answer about whether he would release his tax returns, despite having been given fair warning by his rivals that they would make it an issue.
"I hadn't planned on releasing tax records, because the law requires us to release all of our assets, all the things we own," he said. "That I've already released; it's a pretty full disclosure. But -- but, you know, if -- if that's been the tradition, then I'm not opposed to doing that. Time will tell. But I anticipate that most likely I'm going to get asked to do that around the April time period, and I'll keep that open."
And then in the CNN debate on Thursday night -- after conceding that he would, in fact, release some tax information -- he waffled again, this time on the question of whether he would release 12 years of his tax returns, like his father, the former governor of Michigan, did when he ran for president himself, in 1968.
"When you release yours, will you follow your father's example?" John King, the moderator asked.
"Maybe," Mr. Romney answered, prompting laughter from the audience. "You know, I don't know how many years I'll release. I'll take a look at what the -- what our documents are and I'll release multiple years. I don't know how many years, and -- but I'll be happy to do that."
Mr. Romney's difficulty in dealing with the issue of his money poses two problems for his campaign -- one short term, and the other long term.
As he battles for the Republican nomination, Mr. Romney's hesitant, uncertain answers about his wealth have provided an opening for two rivals, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum, to become the candidate of the middle class, which Mr. Romney had set out to be.
Mr. Santorum has always portrayed himself as the grandson of a coal miner. Now, that image contrasts even more sharply with the picture of a Wall Street-connected rich guy whose fortune includes money parked in offshore accounts.
Mr. Santorum played that contrast to the hilt on Thursday night when the tax return question came to him.
"Well, I do my own taxes and they're on my computer and I'm not home," Mr. Santorum said to laughter from the audience, conjuring an image of a presidential candidate using TurboTax. "There's nobody at home right now. Until I get home, I won't get them. When I get home, you'll get my taxes."
Mr. Romney's situation has also allowed Mr. Gingrich to seem closer to the common man as well. And that's remarkable given that Mr. Gingrich's campaign almost foundered last year on reports that he had a $500,000 line of credit at Tiffany, the jewelry store.
But the long-term challenge for Mr. Romney -- assuming that he wins the Republican nomination in the end -- is the gift that he is handing to President Obama.
The president has begun to turn around his own political fortunes in part by sharpening his rhetoric in recent months about wanting to help middle America.
As the president swings into full campaign mode, the best thing for him and his advisers would be to face an opponent who offers a stark contrast with that image. The president's advisers, like David Axelrod, are working overtime to foster the idea that Mr. Romney is not a man of the people.
"That is the central issue of our time: how do we create an economy in which the middle class is growing; wages are growing; standards of living are not declining but growing," Mr. Axelrod said on CNN's "State of the Union" last Sunday.
Mr. Romney, Mr. Axelrod said, "misses that point."
"And we're going to have a big debate about how we achieve that kind of economy," Mr. Axelrod added. "It's not just about folks at the top doing well. It's about everybody having the opportunity to get ahead."
Mr. Obama has had his own challenges connecting with blue-collar, middle-income working-class people. Hillary Rodham Clinton's advisers mocked him in 2008 as an elitist, and nearly derailed his campaign. That is a vulnerability that Republicans will try to exploit in the fall.
But Mr. Romney's campaign over the last week suggests that he may have more difficulty making the argument that he is a defender of the middle class if he wins the nomination. That could be the most long-lasting damage of the last two weeks.

        
Santorum Edges Ahead of Romney in Iowa
        
A Case of Good Timing, Perhaps, in Romney's Tax Disclosure
        
Romney Calls Voters, With an Old Message From Santorum
        
Time Running Out for Romney's Rivals
        
Santorum Releases His First Ad Attacking Romney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Bain &; mitt romney; South Carolina; wealth; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; United States; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



886 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: On Foreign Policy, Romney Breaks With Advisers

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: Twice this week Mitt Romney's foreign policy advisers have offered views that differ from the candidate's. 

 BODY:
Last October, Mitt Romney announced a roster of national security advisers that lent his campaign instant gravitas. Studded with heavyweight names, many from the Bush administration, the list suggested Mr. Romney was the clear choice of the Republican foreign-policy establishment.
But the risk with lining up big names is that these people tend to have strong opinions, some of which may clash with the candidate's. 
That disconnect was on vivid display this week, when Mr. Romney publicly disavowed one of his advisers, Mitchell B. Reiss, on dealing with the Taliban, while another adviser, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, laid out a firm case against military action against Iran - something that Mr. Romney has said he would consider.
The Romney campaign lists 24 people as "special advisers," ranging from Vin Weber, a former Congressman from Minnesota, to John Lehman, an ex-secretary of the Navy. Analysts have said Mr. Lehman's influence is evident in Mr. Romney's call for the Navy to be beefed up. But as with all such teams of experts, most members have little face-to-face time with a candidate who is busy campaigning.
One who might is John R. Bolton, the fiery former diplomat who was United Nations ambassador and dallied with a run for president himself before endorsing Mr. Romney last week as the best hope to defeat President Obama. 
Mr. Reiss, a well-known academic and diplomat, advised Mr. Romney during his 2008 run for the presidency. But General Hayden, a retired Air Force general who spent much of his career in intelligence, is new to the campaign world. 
A former director of the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency, General Hayden said to analysts and reporters in Washington this week that a military strike would provoke Iran to move even more rapidly toward developing a nuclear weapon, and would drive the program underground.
The Bush administration, Mr. Hayden said at a meeting organized by the Center for the National Interest, had concluded that Iran, after a military strike, would "stop at nothing" to produce nuclear weapons "in secret." He said the wiser course was to use clandestine methods to slow down the nuclear program.
Mr. Romney has said repeatedly that he would consider military action to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Speaking to the Wall Street Journal's editorial board last month, he said he would consider actions ranging from "something of a blockade nature, to something of a surgical strike nature, to something of a 'decapitate the regime' nature, to eliminate the military threat of Iran altogether."
Moreover, he has contrasted his readiness to use force with President Obama, whom he says is weak on Iran. "If we re-elect Barack Obama, Iran will have a nuclear weapon," Mr. Romney declared in South Carolina in November. "And if we elect Mitt Romney, they will not have a nuclear weapon." 
Asked about the risk of military action, Mr. Hayden stressed in an e-mail that "Iran getting a weapon is equally bad." He called it the "problem from hell" and said former President George W. Bush once told him that "he never wanted to be faced - never wanted any president to be faced - with only two options."
Anyway, Mr. Hayden said, he advises Mr. Romney on intelligence matters, not on Iran. He is the co-chairman of a working group on counterterrorism and intelligence, along with Michael Chertoff, a former secretary of homeland security who is a partner with Mr. Hayden in a risk management firm.
Mr. Romney's split with Mr. Reiss was more public. A former head of policy planning at the State Department, Mr. Reiss argues that it makes sense for the United States to negotiate with the Taliban as a way to end the war in Afghanistan.
"There are always risks in talking with any terrorist group, and the Taliban are no different in this respect," Mr. Reiss wrote in a blog post on the Web site of Foreign Policy magazine. But he added, "Some type of a negotiated solution is the best near-term bet to halt the fighting."
During the Republican debate last Monday, Mr. Romney was asked by Bret Baier of Fox News whether his adviser was wrong.
"Yes," he replied. "The right course for America is not to negotiate with the Taliban while the Taliban are killing our soldiers. The right course is to recognize they're the enemy of the United States."
Mr. Romney swiftly segued into a more familiar critique of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for observing in a recent interview that the "Taliban, per se, are not our enemy." The United States, Mr. Romney said, should strengthen the Afghan security forces so they can defeat the Taliban militarily.
Mr. Reiss, who is the president of Washington College in Chestertown, Md., referred questions to the Romney campaign, which did not respond to an e-mail asking for comment.

        
Damage Control From Gingrich on Palestinians
        
Gingrich Calls Palestinians an 'Invented' People
        
Cain Speaks on Foreign Policy, Avoiding Accusations
        
The Economy Isn't Obama's Only Challenge
        
The Value of Foreign Policy Victories for Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NAVIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) foreign policy; Bolton, John R; Hayden, Michael V; Reiss, Mitchell B; Romney, Mitt; Shane, Scott; Afghanistan War (2001- ); International Relations; Nuclear Weapons; Presidential Election of 2012; Foreign Policy (Magazine); Taliban; Afghanistan; Iran; Elections

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%) Foreign Policy (Magazine); Taliban

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); MICHAEL HAYDEN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Bolton, John R; Hayden, Michael V; Reiss, Mitchell B; Romney, Mitt; Shane, Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) Afghanistan; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



887 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Union Goes Up With Anti-Romney Ad in Florida

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: A powerful labor union makes a rare ad purchase during a Republican nominating fight against one of the candidates, Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:

The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the giant public employees' union, will begin airing a 30-second video ad in Florida on Saturday attacking Mitt Romney for making what it said was a $473,000 profit from his firm's investments in a medical company that admitted engaging in Medicare fraud.
 The ad, to be aired in Tampa, Orlando and West Palm Beach, states that Mr. Romney was a board member of the company, Damon Clinical Laboratories, which later admitted to defrauding Medicare of millions of dollars by billing for unneeded blood tests. The ad quotes the-then United States Attorney calling it "corporate greed run amok."
 The ad, showing grim, gray pictures of Mr. Romney, asks, "What kind of businessman is Mitt Romney?"
 According to the Boston Globe, financial documents showed that Mr. Romney made $473,000 when Corning Inc. purchased Damon in 1993. Mr. Romney had served on Damon's board from 1990 to 1993. 
Mr. Romney's investment firm, Bain Capital, made $7.4 million from the sale, after having tripled its original investment in Damon. Three years after the sale, Damon pleaded guilty to defrauding the federal government of $25 million by billing for unnecessary blood tests between 1988 and 1993. Damon paid a $119 million fine.
Larry Scanlon, the union's political director, said this was the first time that his union, which overwhelmingly backs Democrats, was running an ad in a Republican primary fight. He said the union was spending nearly $1 million to run the ad on broadcast and cable television as well as the Internet.
 "We have a great interest in who the next president of the United States is," Mr. Scanlon said in an interview. "We're concerned that there is a picture being painted of Mitt Romney, that he's a wonderful economic savior and that he will somehow resuscitate the American economy on his terms, which are terms we don't like."
Mr. Scanlon said the ad would appeal to retirees, seniors, independents and voters who care about how federal money is spent. His union has traditionally been one of the biggest spenders among unions in backing Democratic candidates.
Florida is of course a pivotal swing state that the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees hope to help deliver to President Obama in November. 
When the Damon scandal became public, a Romney spokesman said Mr. Romney and other board members had helped uncover the fraud after similar practices were found at another laboratory in 1992. The spokesman said Mr. Romney and Damon's board used the board's law firm to investigate and take "corrective action" months before Corning purchased Damon.
But the Boston Globe found that court records, including statements by prosecutors and Damon officials, had indicated that the fraud continued until Corning purchased the firm in 1993. Prosecutors gave Corning sole credit for cleaning up the fraud. Mr. Romney and Damon's other board members were never implicated in the federal investigation, the Globe wrote.
 The new Florida ad shows a photo of Mr. Romney melding into a photograph of Florida's Republican governor, Rick Scott, who has infuriated public-sector unions with his efforts to weaken their ability to bargain collectively.
 After showing Mr. Romney and Mr. Scott, the ad ends, "Corporate greed, Medicare Fraud. Sound familiar."
 Mr. Scott ran Columbia/HCA, the giant health care company for a decade, resigning in 1997 during an F.B.I. investigation that ultimately resulted in the company paying a record $1.7 billion in criminal and civil fines for Medicare fraud. 
Mr. Scott has repeatedly said he takes responsibility for what happened on his watch as chief executive, but he has denied knowing any frauds were taking place while he was there. He was never charged with any crimes.
"Romney was a director of a company where there was massive fraud perpetrated against the federal government and the taxpayer, and that company ended up paying a hefty fine," Mr. Scanlon said. "He's very similar to the governor of Florida in that regard."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); MEDICARE FRAUD (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CAUCUSES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) Romney, Mitt; Frauds and Swindling; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; Boston Globe; Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp; Corning Inc; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Florida; Tampa (Fla); United States; West Palm Beach (Fla); Corning Inc|GLW|NYSE; The Caucus

COMPANY: CORNING INC (84%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%) American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; Boston Globe; Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp; Corning Inc; Federal Bureau of Investigation

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (84%) Corning Inc; GLW; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida; Tampa (Fla); United States; West Palm Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



888 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Romney Turns His Attention Away From Gingrich and Toward Obama

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney says he is "cautiously optimistic" about the South Carolina primary. 

 BODY:
NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. - Hitting the campaign trail on Friday, the day before South Carolina voters head to the polls in the Republican primary, Mitt Romney turned his focus away from Newt Gingrich.
Mr. Gingrich, a former speaker of the House, has been surging in the polls here on the sails of two strong debate performances, but Mr. Romney set his sights back on President Obama.
"I'm very disappointed in our president," Mr. Romney said at a rally Friday afternoon. "He was critical of President Bush for building a huge deficit and then his has been three or four times as large. He was critical of the downturn in our economy, but he's been in office for three years and hasn't been able to turn it around."
Mr. Romney has hit a few speed bumps this week, as Mr. Gingrich rallied in South Carolina, which neighbors his home state, Georgia, and as the media clamored for Mr. Romney to release several years of his tax returns before his own self-imposed April deadline. Mr. Romney also watched as his narrow, eight-vote victory in Iowa was overturned and given to Rick Santorum.
At an earlier stop in Gilbert, S.C., Mr. Romney used "America the Beautiful," one of the patriotic hymns he has taken to reciting on the trail, to joke about the recent Iowa news.
"When I was in Iowa I joked that the corn counted as an amber wave of grain," he said, speaking at an outdoor rally as chilly rain pattered on the loyal supporters who braved the weather to hear him. "That may account for my slim, uh, defeat there. I used to say that accounted for an eight-point win, but I had to change my rhetoric in the last couple of days."
At a nbews conference after the event, Mr. Romney said he was "cautiously optimistic" about the South Carolina primary.
"When I look at the crowd this morning, my enthusiasm meter went up, my confidence goes up," he said. "But we'll see what the numbers are in the final tally. But what I can tell you is this is a campaign that is going to go the distance. I'm confident we're going to get the delegates we need and that despite all of the ups and downs of the campaign, in the final analysis, if I do my job right, get our supporters motivated, why, we'll be able to take the prize."
He also sought to play down the public demand for his tax returns, saying it was more of an issue for the media and the Democrats than it was for voters over all. When he was finished answering, Gov. Nikki Haley, who spent the day campaigning with him, chimed in with her own analysis.
"The people of South Carolina are not talking about tax returns," Ms. Haley said. "They're talking about jobs, spending and the economy, and in all honesty, I've heard more people wondering why you guys aren't asking about ethics reports and ethics problems with the Gingrich campaign."
Mr. Romney seconded Ms. Haley's call that Mr. Gingrich release the additional documents surrounding his Congressional ethics investigation. But when specifically pressed on recent allegations by Mr. Gingrich's second wife that he had requested an "open marriage" before their divorce more than a decade ago - a topic that also came up in Thursday's Republican debate - Mr. Romney demurred.
"I said last night that I wanted to get out and talk about issues, I'll say the same thing today," he said. "I don't have a different comment for you than I did last night."
In recent days, Mr. Romney has attacked Mr. Gingrich on the stump, something he does only when he's worried about a surging rival, and his campaign has similarly piled on with a series of conference calls, e-mails and Web ads painting Mr. Gingrich as an "unreliable leader." On Friday morning, campaign aides held another call criticizing Mr. Gingrich (this time the topic was earmarks during his time in Congress), but Mr. Romney refrained from going after him at his events.
When asked about Mr. Gingrich during the news conference, Mr. Romney sought to play down expectations.
"Speaker Gingrich is from a neighboring state," he said. "And so I knew that we'd have a long, long road ahead of us."
Mr. Romney added, "And frankly, to be in a neck-and-neck race at this last moment is kind of exciting."
As evening fell and he boarded a chartered flight to Greenville, S.C., for his final rally, a smiling Mr. Romney ventured to the back of the plane to pass out pastries from Panera to his traveling press corps.
"Just use your fingers," he said, as he tried to foist second helpings on a small group of reporters. "To heck with it!"

        
Gingrich Cuts Romney's Lead in South Carolina, Poll Finds
        
Gingrich Says His Tax Rate Was 31 Percent
        
Gingrich, Riding High, Dismisses Romney's Call to Release Ethics File
        
Gingrich Feels Heat From Romney, and Welcomes It
        
Inside Debate Prep at Fox News, a Discussion Over Race Question

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ETHICS (64%) Ethics; gingrich; obama; romney; South Carolina; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICK SANTORUM (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NIKKI HALEY (58%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



889 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Is U.S. Health Spending Finally Under Control?

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: At some point, we may reasonably assume, spending on health care will not increase faster than gross domestic product, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 9:36 a.m. | Updated to correct reference to lines in Chart 3. 
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
"Growth in U.S. health spending remains slow in 2010" was the headline of a news release on Jan. 9 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, part of the Department of Health and Human Services. At an increase of 3.9 percent over national health spending in 2009, "the rates of health spending growth in 2009 and 2010 marked the lowest rate in the 51-year history of the National Health Expenditure Accounts," the release said. 
The news was quickly picked up and disseminated by news organizations, including The New York Times. 
What is one to make of this development? Is it evidence that we have finally "broken the back of the health care inflation monster," as former Secretary of Health and Human Services Margaret Heckler famously put it in 1984. That was just after the Reagan administration had introduced the current prospective case-based payments for hospital inpatient care but two years before the health care inflation monster returned with a vengeance.

The charts below provide a longer-run perspective on health spending in the United States. They are all based on the rich data tables released annually by the Office of the Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services.
Charts 1 and 2 show the growth of health spending from 1965 to 2010, broken down by source of payment. Chart 1 exhibits the time path of actual health spending, not adjusted for inflation. Chart 2 exhibits the percentage of total national health spending contributed by the various sources in the chart. 
In the charts the green area denotes out-of-pocket spending at the time health care is consumed, the red private health insurance, the gray Medicare, the yellow Medicaid and the blue "other third-party payments."
The latter category is a grab bag of mainly public programs like spending by the Department of Defense, the Veterans Administration health system, the Indian Health Service, Workers' Compensation, school health, general federal and state public-health activities and so on. Although each item in the list is relatively small, together these programs now add up to slightly over 20 percent of total national health spending.
Charts 1 and 2 illustrate the growing role of the Medicare and Medicaid programs in total health spending. They also show that out-of-pocket spending as a percentage of total national health spending has steadily decreased over time, even though the average American family probably feels that quite the opposite has occurred. 
This is so because out-of-pocket spending for health care in dollars in the United States can rise even though as a percentage of total health spending it falls, because per-capita health spending in the United States is so large - typically twice as large as the corresponding figures in other nations.
Charts 3 and 4 tell an interesting story. The blue line in Chart 3 represents inflation-adjusted, real national health spending per capita in constant 2005 dollars. The red line represents real, inflation-adjusted gross domestic product per capita. The G.D.P. deflator was used to adjust the two-time series for inflation (see Table B-7).
As the charts show, both real national health spending per capita and real G.D.P. per capita fluctuate considerably from year to year. On average, the growth rate of health spending has exceeded the growth rate of G.D.P., although in a few years the opposite occurred. 
I am certainly not the first to notice this. Charts like these are old hat in the Office of the Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and they have been remarked on in the literature for some time, as this example shows. 
Charts 3 and 4 illustrate two additional points. 
First, depending on the beginning and end points one chooses for calculation, the average percentage points by which the annual growth in health spending has exceeded the average annual growth in G.D.P. over the chosen period - a difference known among health policy analysts simply as "excess cost growth" - can vary quite a bit. One really needs charts like these to study the phenomenon, not point-to-point averages.
Second, the annual growth in real health spending per capita appears to have fluctuated around a long-run trend that has declined ever so gently over the longer period (see the blue line in Chart 3). That trend reflects in part that the annual growth in real G.D.P. per capita has also fluctuated around a gently declining trend line. As is shown in Chart 4, the trend line around which excess growth fluctuates is virtually flat. 
The $64,000 question is how soon the excess growth of health spending will descend from its historical average of 1.5 to 2.5 percent first to, say, 1 percent or so, and eventually to 0 percent. 
It is tempting to view the relatively lower cost growth in recent years as a first step in that direction. But nothing in the history of health spending in the United States suggests that this is the time to break out the Champagne to celebrate that victory. 
After all, low rates of spending increases in 2009-10 could just be the lagged effect of the deep recession in 2008-9. There is evidence in the literature that health spending does not completely march to its own drummer, regardless of what happens in the rest of the economy, but instead tends to rise and fall somewhat with the rest of the G.D.P., albeit with a lag of one to two years. The safest bet is that on the long road to eventual zero excess growth in health spending, we will ride up and down quite a few more times on the health-spending roller coaster.
Now why is it reasonable to assume that excess cost growth will just have to decline to zero in the long run - that is, to assume that health spending will not eventually growth faster than G.D.P. and perhaps even more slowly?
Economists would explain such a trend as flows: as the fraction of G.D.P. devoted to health care increases, the added satisfaction, or utility, that people derive from added health care is likely to diminish relative to the added satisfaction derived from consuming more of other things. It could explain a gradual decline in the excess growth of health care spending. 
Finally, economists retreat here to the one law on which they all agree, namely, Stein's Law, named for the late economist Herbert Stein: "If something cannot go on forever, it will stop." Trust us. It will, in the long run.
An earlier version of this post reversed a reference to the lines in Chart 3. The blue line (not red) represents health spending; the red line (not blue) represents gross domestic product per capita. 

        
The Fork in the Road for Health Care
        
Determining the Level of Payments in Health Care
        
The Wyden-Ryan Plan: Deja Vu All Over Again
        
Social Insurance and Individual Freedom
        
Equalizing Payments for Medical Care

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (65%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (62%); VETERANS (60%); MEDICAID (57%) Daily Economist; health care; health insurance; U.S. health care costs; universal health coverage; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



890 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: U.S. General Urges Closer Ties With Israel

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called Friday for closer engagement between the United States and Israel during a short visit here at a time of tension over Iran's nuclear program.
The general's tight schedule of individual meetings with Israel's top military brass and political leaders on Thursday evening and Friday would have precluded lengthy, in-depth discussions, but Israeli analysts said that General Dempsey's presence here was enough to signal American solidarity with Israel while giving both sides an opportunity to air their differences on how to face the Iranian challenge. 
The meetings were closed and their contents were not revealed. But General Dempsey, on his first visit to Israel as military chief, was quoted in brief remarks released by the office of Israel's defense minister as saying, ''We have many interests in common in the region in this very dynamic time, and the more we can continue to engage each other, the better off we'll all be.''
The defense minister, Ehud Barak, replied, ''There is never a dull moment, that I can promise you.''
Israel says that a nuclear-armed Iran could pose an existential threat to Israel and a danger to the world order, and argues that if the world does not halt Iran's nuclear drive by diplomacy and tough sanctions, military force should be used as a last resort.
Though Iran continues to insist that its nuclear program is only for civilian purposes, Israel, the United States and much of the West are convinced that Iran is working to develop a weapons program. But Israel and its allies have differing perceptions of urgency over the issue, and there is no agreement on when the time for diplomacy and sanctions may be considered to have run out. The United States, Israel's most important ally, has made it clear that it does not want Israel to carry out a pre-emptive, unilateral strike against Iran.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta has emphasized the necessity of working together, warning that a military strike could have severe economic consequences worldwide. General Dempsey told Reuters in November that Israel and the United States had different perspectives and expectations. Asked whether Israel would alert the United States ahead of time if it chose to go forward with military action, he said he did not know.
After the release in November of a United Nations report cataloging suspected military activities in Iran's nuclear program, a senior Israeli official said that a more aggressive sanctions regime would have to be imposed and start to prove itself within months.
Israeli officials have cautiously praised American-led efforts to toughen sanctions against Iran's central bank and oil trade, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said recently that Iran was beginning to ''wobble.'' But Mr. Netanyahu has also expressed concern over possible delays in imposing the kind of sanctions that might make Iran change course.
On Monday, European Union foreign ministers are to convene to decide on the scope of sanctions but there has been talk of delaying an oil embargo by up to six months.
During a visit to the Netherlands this week, Mr. Netanyahu impressed upon his interlocutors that the time for beefing up sanctions is now, according to Mark Regev, a spokesman, who accompanied the prime minister on his trip.
General Dempsey began his visit here with an intimate dinner on Thursday evening at a restaurant in Jaffa with his counterpart, Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz, Israel's military chief of staff. The men were joined by their wives. Early Friday, General Dempsey was greeted at Israeli military headquarters in Tel Aviv with an honor guard and held meetings with General Gantz and other senior commanders.
The top generals ''discussed military-to-military relations, the new U.S. defense strategy, budget and economic issues and regional security challenges,'' Col. Dave Lapan, the Special Assistant for Public Affairs in the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a statement.
Other meetings were held with Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Barak and Israel's president, Shimon Peres. General Dempsey also visited Yad Vashem, Israel's official Holocaust memorial, where he wrote in the visitors' book, ''We are committed to ensuring that such a human tragedy never happens again.'' He departed Israel before the onset of the Sabbath at sundown on Friday.
Each of the meetings ''reinforced the deep and special relationship shared by Israel and the U.S.,'' Colonel Lapan said, and ''served to advance a common understanding of the regional security environment.''
Amid Iranian threats to close the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial waterway for oil supplies, there have been indications of efforts to calm the increasingly charged atmosphere and discourse. Israel and the United States agreed last week to postpone a major joint military exercise planned for the spring, and Mr. Barak told Israel's Army Radio on Wednesday that any decision to attack Iran was ''very far off.'' Colonel Lapan said the sides agreed to hold the joint drill later in the year ''to achieve a better training outcome.''
Mr. Peres told General Dempsey on Friday that ''Even today in a very complicated situation we can find a common ground. We have profound trust in your democratic system and your armed forces.'' General Dempsey assured Mr. Peres that ''America is your partner and we are honored to have you as a partner in that regard.''
Alex Fishman, the veteran military affairs analyst of the newspaper Yediot Aharonot, wrote in Friday's issue that General Dempsey's visit was ''demonstrative,'' adding, ''It is intended to show the electorate in the United States that the Obama administration is the friendliest administration to Israel in the security realm.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, center, met with Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz of Israel, right, during a short visit to the country to discuss strategy on Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER WEIKEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (57%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); LEON E PANETTA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



891 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: An Industry Stalls in Thailand Amid Flood Debris

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

 BODY:
KHLONG LUANG, Thailand -- The floodwaters receded weeks ago from this sprawling industrial zone, but the streets are littered with detritus, the phones do not work and rusted machinery has been dumped outside warehouses that once buzzed with efficiency.
Before Thailand's great flood of 2011, companies like Panasonic, JVC and Hitachi produced electronics and computer components that were exported around the world. Now of the 227 factories operating in the zone, only 15 percent have restarted production, according to Nipit Arunvongse Na Ayudhya, the managing director of the company that manages the Nava Nakorn industrial zone, one of the largest in Thailand and located just north of Bangkok. 
''The recovery has not been that easy,'' Mr. Nipit said in an interview Friday on the sidelines of a meeting where he sought to soothe anxious foreign factory managers.
The slow recovery here is having global consequences. Before the floods, Thailand produced about 40 percent to 45 percent of the world's hard disk drives, the invaluable and ubiquitous storage devices of the digital age. It is now becoming clear that it will be months -- significantly longer than initially expected -- before production of hard drives returns to antediluvian levels.
The upshot for consumers worldwide is that they may face a prolonged period of higher prices for hard drives. In the United States, certain models are currently 40 percent to 50 percent more expensive than before the floods, levels that may remain for several months, analysts say.
''By the end of the year, HDD price could come back to preflood level for certain drives,'' said Fang Zhang, an analyst at IHS iSuppli, a market forecasting company based in the United States. He used the acronym for hard disk drives.
John Coyne, the president and chief executive of Western Digital, which makes about one-third of the world's hard drives, said this past week that production in the company's factories in Thailand would not return to preflood levels until September. About 60 other companies that produce hard drives and components were flooded, he said.
The challenges facing all flood-affected companies in Thailand are apparent during a drive through the Nava Nakorn industrial zone. Rotting furniture and rusted file cabinets are strewn outside a Panasonic factory. Workers brought in from Cambodia are cleaning up -- dredging filthy drainage ditches and cleaning up trash in front of a JVC facility. But more than a month after the last puddles of floodwater dried in the tropical sun, parts of Nava Nakorn, which means ''new city,'' still resemble a municipal dump. Large piles of garbage bags sit beside roads fissured and potholed by the floods.
Many buildings bear the telltale scar of the floodwaters -- a high water mark about two meters above street level.
For most factories, the hopes of recovering machinery seems to have been dashed by the prolonged exposure to corrosive, polluted water -- in some cases two months.
One manager at a factory that produces components for television sets described his machinery as ''100 percent killed in action.'' Mr. Nipit estimates that about 60 percent of machinery will be thrown away.
As they rebuild, many foreign investors seem anxious and uncertain whether the Thai government is taking enough measures to prevent another round of flooding during future monsoons.
On Friday, factory managers attended a presentation about future flood prevention measures. By August, the Nava Nakorn industrial zone is to resemble a fortress, with a giant flood wall around the perimeter and sealable aluminum flood barriers across entrance points.
But the audience at the presentation peppered the managers of the industrial zone with skeptical questions about the timetable of rehabilitation and the reliability of future flood forecasting.
Mr. Coyne, the Western Digital president, also delivered a relatively frank message to the Thai government at a separate meeting earlier in the week. Thailand needs ''a credible plan, well executed with measurable milestones along the way,'' he said. ''And we need to define those milestone quickly.'' He urged the government to speed up flood prevention measures. ''We have to ensure that we have no self-inflicted wounds in 2012,'' he said. The monsoon season begins in May.
Before the floods last year, the concentration of hard-drive manufacturing in Thailand kept prices down because of economies of scale and the proximity of suppliers to one another. But the floods showed how risky this arrangement was.
Mr. Coyne said Thailand's reputation was on the line. The No. 1 expectation of customers was that hard drives are available when they need them, he said.
''We need to work together to restore that guarantee of uninterrupted, predictable supply so that our customers will continue to believe in us -- and believe in Thailand,'' he said.
On Friday, the Thai prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, presented a plan to mitigate future flooding that includes reforestation, better coordination of the release of water from hydroelectric dams and a streamlining of decision-making when the risk of flooding arises.
''We will see how we can manage effectively to drain the water to the ocean and the canals as soon as possible,'' she said.
Ms. Yingluck's government, which came to power last August just as the flooding was intensifying, has been widely criticized for disseminating inconsistent and inaccurate reports during the floods.
''The information that we obtained from the government was useless,'' Mr. Nipit said. ''It was all misinformation.''
As reconstruction grinds on, Mr. Nipit and his colleagues are beseeching foreign factory managers for patience.
Prajak Visuttakul, another manager of the Nava Nakorn industrial zone, told the representatives of dozens of companies that water supplies would not be fully restored until May.
A former major general in the Thai Army, Mr. Prajak bowed to the audience made up of largely Japanese managers.
''We are sorry for this inconvenience,'' he said. ''This is the fastest we can do.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The worst flooding in a half-century left the Rojana Industrial Park north of Bangkok choked with trash and rusting machinery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA WALTON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); HARD DRIVES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LANDFILLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%)

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F COYNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



892 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SELF-IMMOLATION ON RISE
ACROSS THE ARAB WORLD
Throughout the Arab world, self-immolation has become increasingly common, the most recent instance being five young men in Morocco. Their action added to the grim tally for a month in which others have set themselves on fire in Tunisia, Jordan and Bahrain. Page A4
RUSHDIE'S LIFE THREATENED 
In the latest setback to free speech in India, Salman Rushdie has backed out of attending a literature festival because of a new assassination threat. Page A4
OIL EMBARGO OF IRAN NEARS
The European Union moved closer to imposing a phased oil embargo on Iran and some form of narrow sanctions on transactions with Iran's central bank, European and French diplomats said. Page A8
BRITAIN REVOKES TV LICENSE
Britain's media regulator revoked the broadcast license for the Iranian state-owned television network Press TV, saying it had failed to address concerns over its editorial independence and had not paid a fine. Page A8
FATAL HUNGER STRIKE IN CUBA
Human rights advocates and American officials condemned the Cuban government for limiting political freedom, after an imprisoned Cuban dissident died while on a hunger strike to protest his sentence.
Page A10
HUNGARY DROPS BANK PLAN
Hungary's prime minister promised to abandon plans to merge the nation's central bank and its financial markets regulator, seeking to defuse criticism over an increasing centralization of power. Page A12
National
KANSAS SODOMY LAW
STAYS ON THE BOOKS
Gov. Sam Brownback of Kansas created the Office of the Repealer to recommend the elimination of out-of-date, unreasonable and burdensome state laws. But Statute 21-3505, the criminal sodomy statute, was not selected for repeal. Page A13
SICK AND TIRED OF ADS
Direct mail, robo-calls, endless TV ads and even a hot-air balloon hovering over the highway have many in Greenville, S.C., wishing for the Republican primary to be over soon. Page A15
NO BIRTH CONTROL EXEMPTION
The Obama administration said that most health insurance plans must cover contraceptives for women free of charge, and it rejected a broad exemption sought by the Roman Catholic Church for insurance provided to employees of Catholic hospitals, colleges and charities. Page A17
New York
MARIJUANA CAMPAIGNER
UNBOWED BY TRIBULATIONS
A jail stint and a heart attack while in prison have done nothing to temper the activist spirit of Dana Beal, founder of the Youth International Party, or Yippies. He has spent nearly a half-century involved in marijuana activism and radical politics. Page A24
Obituaries
RICHARD M. KETCHUM, 89
An author and editor, he co-founded Country Journal, a magazine offering a blend of the bucolic and the practical, mostly to city folk who had opted for the rural life. Page D8
Business
CHEVROLET'S ELECTRIC VOLT
CLEARED BY SAFETY BOARD
Federal safety regulators said that they had closed their investigation into the Chevrolet Volt without finding a defect, concluding there were measures taken to reduce the risk of a fire after a crash. Page B1
SLIGHT LIFT IN G.E. PROFITS
G.E. reported fourth-quarter profits that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, but revenue fell short, reflecting softer sales, a stronger dollar and the economic slowdown in Europe. Page B3
INDUSTRY STALLS IN THAILAND
The floodwaters receded weeks ago from Khlong Luang, a sprawling industrial zone, but only 15 percent of the 227 factories have restarted production. Page B4
ANTIPIRACY BILLS SHELVED
Congressional leaders shelved two antipiracy bills, dealing a major defeat to the traditional media industry while emboldening online political activists. Page B6
COMPENSATION STILL HIGH
Wall Street stocks and profits took a beating in 2011. But there is one corner of the Street that took a lighter hit: C.E.O. compensation. Page B7
Sports
49ERS HELP FAMOUS POET
RECOVER LOVE OF THE GAME
One of the country's most enduring poets, the 92-year-old Lawrence Ferlinghetti, fell out of love with football five years ago. But in watching the second half of the 49ers' victory over the Saints last weekend, he found that love returning.
Page D1
Arts
WHERE ART OFFERED
A FLEETING FREEDOM
The 92nd Street Y's Will to Create, Will to Live: The Culture of Terezin, is an expansive monthlong series devoted to the legacy of composers who spent World War II in the Terezina concentration camp near Prague. Page C1
AN INDEPENDENT STAR SHINES
After 15 years in Hollywood, Melanie Lynskey found a true starring role in a Sundance indie film, ''Hello I Must Be Going.'' Page C1
Op-Ed
Gail Collins PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); LITERATURE (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); WRITERS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ASSASSINATION (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SENTENCING (71%); POLITICS (71%); PRISONS (71%); CANNABIS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); RELIGION (65%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); CONTRACEPTION (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (55%); HUMAN RIGHTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (53%) KANSAS, USA (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (53%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CUBA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); INDIA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); TUNISIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



893 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Blacks Face Bias In Bankruptcy, Study Suggests

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Blacks are about twice as likely as whites to wind up in the more onerous and costly form of consumer bankruptcy as they try to dig out from their debts, a new study has found.
The disparity persisted even when the researchers adjusted for income, homeownership, assets and education. The evidence suggested that lawyers were disproportionately steering blacks into a process that was not as good for them financially, in part because of biases, whether conscious or unconscious.
The vast majority of debtors file under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which typically allows them to erase most debts in a matter of months. It tends to have a higher success rate and is less expensive than the alternative, Chapter 13, which requires debtors to dedicate their disposable income to paying back their debts for several years.
The study of racial differences in bankruptcy filings was written by Robert M. Lawless, a bankruptcy expert and law professor, and Dov Cohen, a psychology professor, both with the University of Illinois; and Jean Braucher, a law professor at the University of Arizona. 
A survey conducted as part of their research found that bankruptcy lawyers were much more likely to steer black debtors into a Chapter 13 than white filers even when they had identical financial situations. The lawyers, the survey found, were also more likely to view blacks as having ''good values'' when they expressed a preference for Chapter 13.
''Unfortunately I'm not surprised with these results,'' said Neil Ellington, executive vice president of Consumer Education Services, a credit counseling agency in Raleigh, N.C. ''The same underlying issues that created the problem in mortgage lending, with minorities paying higher interest rates than their white counterparts having the same loan qualifications, are present in all financial fields.''
The findings, which will be published in The Journal of Empirical Legal Studies later this year, did not suggest that there was any obvious evidence of discrimination in the bankruptcy process. ''I don't think there is any overt conspiracy,'' Professor Lawless said. ''But when you have a complex system, these biases can play out and the people within the system don't see the pattern because nobody is in charge of looking at these big issues.''
Changes in the bankruptcy law in 2005 were intended to force more debtors to file under Chapter 13 and repay some of their debts, but that has not been the effect. In fact, the rate of Chapter 13 filings has remained relatively steady, at about 30 percent. Last year, overall bankruptcy filings were 1.4 million.
Chapter 13 is not always an inferior choice. Many distressed borrowers go that route because they may be able to save their homes from foreclosure. But even that does not explain away the difference: among blacks who did not own their homes, the rate of filing for Chapter 13 was still twice as high as the rate for other races. And the trend persists across the country, beyond regions like the South where Chapter 13 tends to be a more popular option among all debtors (perhaps, in part, because Chapter 13 originated in the South).
If a debtor chooses an inappropriate chapter, there can be serious implications. Chapter 13 plans, for instance, are more likely to fail than a Chapter 7. Nearly two of every three Chapter 13 plans are not completed, which means the filers' remaining debts are not discharged, leaving them right where they started. One bankruptcy judge, who sees filers once they can no longer make the required payments in the plans, said the debtors usually do not have enough income to stick with the budget.
''They thought they could cut back on this or that, and you might be able to do that for three or four months,'' said the judge, C. Ray Mullins, chief judge for the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Northern District of Georgia. ''But in a Chapter 13, it will be either three or five years. There are certain things you can't anticipate -- a spike in gas prices.''
The study has two parts. One used data from actual bankruptcy cases from the Consumer Bankruptcy Project, the most detailed trove of information on filers currently available. The project surveyed 2,400 households nationwide who filed for bankruptcy in 2007.
Results from the second part of the study, which illustrated the lawyer's influence in determining which bankruptcy chapter to choose, came from a survey sent to lawyers asking them questions based on fictitious couples who were seeking bankruptcy protection. When the couple was named ''Reggie and Latisha,'' who attended an African Methodist Episcopal Church -- as opposed to a white couple, ''Todd and Allison,'' who were members of a United Methodist Church -- the lawyers were more likely to recommend a Chapter 13, even though the two couples' financial circumstances were identical.
Even though the attorneys' fees for the more labor-intensive Chapter 13 are more than double the charge for a Chapter 7, some truly distressed debtors will pursue a Chapter 13 anyway, several bankruptcy experts said. That is because they can pay the fee over time, unlike in a Chapter 7, which typically requires a payment before the case is filed. If blacks are perceived as less likely to have the resources -- or a family with resources -- to come up with a lump sum, some lawyers may be inclined to suggest a Chapter 13, these experts suggested.
But Professor Lawless said he and the other researchers accounted for this possibility in their results. As to the possibility that unscrupulous attorneys could push Chapter 13 filings in an attempt to get higher fees, Professor Lawless said that effect should be apparent across all races.
He said the study has no information about whether other players in the process -- judges and bankruptcy trustees, among others -- were contributing to the difference in filings rates.
William E. Brewer Jr., president of the National Association of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys, and a practicing lawyer in Raleigh, N.C., disputed the premise of the study that Chapter 13 was always more burdensome and always required debtors to pay more to their creditors. ''The study does not adequately control for the numerous complex factors that dictate chapter choice,'' he said. ''Having said this, Nacba intends to present the study to its members for discussion and self-reflection.''
Other, more limited studies have also shown the higher incidence of Chapter 13 among blacks. In Chicago, the Woodstock Institute, a research and policy group, reported last May that in mostly black communities in Cook County, nearly half the cases from 2006 to 2010 were filed under Chapter 13, compared with 32.8 percent of all cases filed in the county. ''For people of color, who historically have fewer assets, preservation of assets is a top priority,'' said Tom Feltner, vice president at Woodstock, who added that lawyers often have a financial incentive to push Chapter 13 filings. ''It is possible that the higher levels of Chapter 13 in communities of color can be explained by a combination of higher attorney's fees and a filer's desire, or advice that elevates a filer's desire, to preserve as many assets as possible.''
Henry E. Hildebrand III, who has served as a Chapter 13 trustee in Tennessee for 30 years, said he had noticed that blacks and other minorities appeared to be overrepresented in Chapter 13 cases. ''We should focus not on picking apart the conclusions,'' Mr. Hildebrand said, ''but use this study as an indication that we should be attempting to fix what has become a complex, expensive, unproductive system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry E. Hildebrand III, a Chapter 13 trustee in Nashville, says the system needs to be changed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHARTS: A Widespread Pattern: Blacks file Chapter 13 bankruptcies at a higher rate than other groups even in areas that have a low rate of those type of bankruptcies. (Source: ''Race, Attorney Influence and Bankruptcy Chapter Choice,'' by Jean Braucher, Dov Cohen and Robert M. Lawless, Journal of Empirical Legal Studies)
 Higher Rate for Chapter 13: Blacks file Chapter 13 bankruptcies at almost twice the rate of any other group. (Source: ''Race, Attorney Influence and Bankruptcy Chapter Choice,'' by Jean Braucher, Dov Cohen and Robert M. Lawless, Journal of Empirical Legal Studies) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); RACE & RACISM (79%); DISCRIMINATION (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (75%); TENNESSEE, USA (74%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



894 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Cars Stay in Showroom

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE new passenger car is becoming an increasingly rare item in some European countries.
Total new registrations of passenger cars in the European Union fell by nearly 2 percent in 2011, the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association reported this week. It was the fourth consecutive year of declines. 
The sales performance varied widely from country to country, reflecting the diverging economic fortunes on the Continent. New-car registrations set records in Belgium and Austria. German registrations were up nearly 9 percent, although they remain below their levels before the credit crisis.
But in troubled Greece, fewer than 100,000 new passenger cars were registered. That had not happened since at least 1990. In 2007, nearly 280,000 new cars were registered.
In Belgium, more than 50 new cars were registered for every 1,000 people. In Greece, the number was under nine. In Hungary, where new car registrations are less than half their level of four years ago, the figure is about half the Greek level.
New-car registrations in Europe provide an economic barometer of national conditions because no one really needs a new car. A family may need a replacement vehicle, but a used car can be purchased. Within the Common Market, it is easy to fill demand for used cars in struggling countries with trade-ins from customers in more prosperous economies.
The accompanying charts show the trends. Levels of wealth in the European Union were never close to equal, but the disparities have grown rapidly since the credit crisis began. Signs of a recovery in automobile demand in late 2009 vanished as the sovereign debt crisis emerged, first in Greece and then in other countries.
Over all, the 13.1 million cars registered in 25 members of the European Union was the smallest figure for any 12 months since data for the enlarged union began to be calculated in 2003. For the first 15 members of the European Union, data goes back much further. This was the lowest year for them since 1997, a year before the euro became the common currency for many countries.
The charts show the rapid decline in new-car registrations in the countries most hurt in the sovereign debt crisis. In 2007, Spain had 36 registrations per 1,000 residents, well above the European Union average of nearly 32. In 2011, the Spanish figure had dropped by half, and it was well below the European Union average. Ireland fell just as rapidly, although registrations did begin to pick up in 2011.
The figures reflect registrations of new passenger cars, and do not include small trucks. Figures for the United States, which do include such vehicles, are not directly comparable. But they showed increases in both 2010 and 2011.
All told, the countries in the European Union registered 15.8 percent fewer new passenger cars in 2011 than they had registered in 2007, the last full year before the credit crisis. The figure was up in seven countries, but down by 50 percent or more in eight nations.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: New-Car Registrations Decline in Europe: The number of new passenger cars registered in the European Union declined 15.8 percent from 2007 to 2011. Registrations fell in 17 of the 24 European countries with populations over 1 million.
E.U. COUNTRIES RANKED BY 2007-11 CHANGE IN CAR REGISTRATIONS: Chart lists only countries with 1 million or more residents. Countries that use the euro as their currency are shown in italics. (Sources: European Automobile Manufacturers' Association (registrations)
 national governments, via Haver Analytics (population)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CURRENCIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRIA (90%); SPAIN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



895 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank Unlikely Hero In Euro Crisis

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt, Landon Thomas Jr. from London, and Steven Erlanger from Paris.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Throughout the month, countries caught in the eye of the European financial storm, including Italy, Spain and France, have repeatedly defied expectations, selling big batches of bonds to the public at interest rates significantly lower than investors demanded at the height of the euro crisis late last year.
The surprisingly successful auctions owe little to improving economic data around the region. On the contrary, many of the countries that use the euro as their currency appear to be confronting a renewed recession, and pessimism about their growth prospects remains abundant. Just last week, Standard & Poor's stripped France of its coveted AAA rating for the first time in recent history and downgraded eight others.
Instead, most of the credit seems to go to the European Central Bank, which in late December under its new president, Mario Draghi, quietly began providing emergency loans to European banks -- hundreds of billions of dollars of almost interest-free capital that the banks have used to come to the rescue of their national governments. 
The central bank, based in Frankfurt, used typically understated and technical language to describe its actions, but it appears to have done what its leadership said throughout 2011 that it would not do: namely, flood the financial markets with euros in a Hail Mary attempt to make sure that the region's sovereign debt crisis does not lead to a major financial shock.
Though on a smaller scale and in a subtler manner, it has in many ways taken a page from the United States Federal Reserve's playbook for the 2008 financial crisis, which has been roundly criticized in Europe as a reckless bailout that risks setting off uncontrolled inflation. And, at least for now, the effort has worked. Spain's 10-year bonds carry interest rates that hover around 5.5 percent, compared with 7 percent and higher in November, and Italy's five-year bonds are approaching 5 percent, down from nearly 8 percent at their peak.
There have been moments before when European leaders declared the crisis contained, only to see it return with renewed fury. But the central bank's incentives, combined with a push from the private banks' home governments, seem to have convinced investors that this time may be different, and financial markets in Asia, Europe and the United States have responded with strong gains this year.
Fears of a bank collapse -- the so-called Lehman Brothers moment, when one financial institution's failure threatens the stability of the entire system -- have subsided. And Greece appears to be closer to a deal with its creditors to pare back its debt obligations rather than a disorderly default that could plunge the financial system back into chaos.
That encouraging situation seemed highly unlikely as recently as early December, when panic over the European debt crisis was reaching a peak, just before a European Union summit meeting in Brussels. While national leaders postured and pursued their parochial interests, Mr. Draghi, told reporters at the central bank's headquarters that he would conduct ''two longer-term refinancing operations'' (in plain English, emergency financing) for cash-starved banks for three years instead of one year.
The European economy was on the brink, and threatening to take the rest of the world with it, and Europe's new top central banker did not seem to get it. ''Why is it so impossible for the E.C.B. to act like the other central banks, like the Federal Reserve system or the Bank of England?'' a reporter asked him. ''Why do you not act more directly to help European countries by buying up the debt on a massive scale?''
Mr. Draghi said he was bound by the European treaty, which ''embodies the best tradition of the Deutsche Bundesbank,'' the German central bank, code for strict inflation-fighting and the furthest thing from a wholesale emergency bailout.
European stocks fell. Financial experts declared that Mr. Draghi had disappointed. The world demanded a bazooka, but he had shown up with a water pistol, or so it seemed.
Less than two weeks later, on Dec. 21, the bank announced the results of its technical maneuver: the banks had taken $630 billion as part of the program. In the weeks that followed, the banks appear to have used a sizable share of the cash to buy the European bonds so desperately in need of customers. It was as if the European Central Bank had injected lenders with steroids, then asked them to do the heavy lifting. The strategy appears to be paying off. Even in the face of recession warnings and the agency's downgrades, the European debt market keeps improving.
Financial experts say the central bank's intervention seems to have catalyzed a virtuous circle: As new governments come in and promise to deliver spending cuts, tax increases and balanced budgets, once gun-shy banks have an added incentive to tap new financing from the central bank and jump back into bond markets that they were running from just a few months ago.
The question now is whether the E.C.B.'s action merely delayed the inevitable reckoning for the euro zone's weakest members or whether falling interest rates and improved growth will become entrenched, bringing the critical phase of the Continent's debt crisis to a close.
''I think that they have mastered it to the extent that this isn't going to get a whole lot worse,'' said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''We do have in my opinion fairly credible signs of stabilization.''
The central bank under its previous chairman, Jean-Claude Trichet, had long resisted more aggressive action, unwilling to flood the market with money the way the Fed did in 2008 until governments committed to reining in spending and deregulating their economies. ''By refusing to act decisively at an early stage, they in a sense perpetuated the crisis, creating a situation where in the end the euro-area politicians had no other choice than to do the right thing,'' Mr. Kirkegaard said.
The central bank is preparing another infusion in February, and many banking experts expect it to be even bigger. The unspoken quid pro quo -- that banks need to buy government debt in exchange for the central bank's largess -- seems to be working.
The strategy is not without risks, warned Thomas Mayer, chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. ''It may please some of the purists as it looks purer, but the banks may become addicted,'' Mr. Mayer said. There is a limit to how much of this debt the banks can buy, he said. ''Near-term relief of government bond deals may come at the cost of making the banks' balance sheets more toxic.''
Policy makers say they are aware that all the central bank has done is give them breathing room to set their houses in order; the bonds are due in just three years. So the summit meeting of European leaders scheduled for Jan. 30 is likely to focus on finding ways to spur growth as well as on reining in budget deficits.
''The fetishizing of austerity by European leaders, clamping down on growth so severely, may create political backlash that will not be manageable,'' said Kathleen R. McNamara, director of the Mortara Center for International Studies at Georgetown University. ''But I give kudos to the E.C.B. for managing what really has been a tightrope situation.''
The amounts the central bank has spent directly are much smaller than some economists and political leaders would like, but over time have grown substantial. It has spent $280 billion intervening in government debt markets since May 2010. Last week alone, it spent nearly $5 billion in bond markets.
The political deliberations and negotiations in Brussels and, increasingly, in Berlin have been as important as the central bank's moves. They were a precondition for the bank's actions, and continue to carry importance.
''I don't think it's a coincidence that this happened only after we had a change of government in Italy and Spain,'' said Mr. Kirkegaard, the research fellow. ''From the perspective of the E.C.B., they have fairly consistently in my opinion not done anything big in this crisis without getting a big juicy quid pro quo,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The European Central Bank, under its new president, Mario Draghi, has quietly made emergency loans to European banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT KESSLER/REUTERS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); BANK FAILURES (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); ITALY (93%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



896 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Economic Crisis

 BODY:
In the year since President Hosni Mubarak was ousted, Egypt has faced many challenges: the military-led government's brutality against protesters and pro-democracy groups, its resistance to handing power to civilian leaders and the rise of Islamists in the country's first free elections. Now worsening economic conditions are further sabotaging hopes for a democratic future. 
The country's foreign currency reserves have fallen from a peak of $36 billion to about $10 billion and could run out entirely by March. The currency is under severe pressure, and a steep drop in the exchange rate could bring painful inflation and more social unrest. Youth unemployment is about 25 percent, a dangerous situation where 60 percent of the citizens are 30 and under.
Egyptians want jobs, education and a say in governance. Many are justifiably angry about the military's autocratic control -- and will be angrier still if economic conditions deteriorate further. They aren't the only ones with a stake in the outcome. Egypt is the fourth-largest economy in the Middle East. Its success, or failure, will have a huge impact on the region and beyond.
Egypt's military rulers are now realizing how big a threat the collapsing economy is -- and they clearly don't want to be blamed. In May, they rejected a $3.2 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund, saying it would infringe on Egypt's sovereignty. They wanted the money, but with no strings attached -- no mandatory reforms or austerity measures, like cutting food and fuel subsidies. Now desperate, they resurrected the loan request this week and welcomed an I.M.F. delegation to discuss possible components of an economic program. The I.M.F. probably won't make a decision on that request until March.
The fund's officials say that they do not intend to impose conditions on the loan. But even without conditions, Egypt must make reforms if it wants to spur private business ventures, foreign investment and growth. Such measures can never be sustained without public support.
In a recent interview with Reuters news service, the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood's economic committee, Ashraf Badr el-Din, suggested that the Brotherhood and other main parties are moving toward consensus on managing the economy. If true, that's a good sign. The United States, the European Union and the gulf states last year promised billions of dollars in assistance to Egypt, but most of it has not materialized as they waited for signs of political stability. If the I.M.F. negotiations over the loan terms succeed, those countries should move quickly on their commitments, including offers to begin free-trade talks with Egypt.
Washington and its allies may not have much sway with the military rulers or the newly elected political leaders in the short term, but they have to build long-term relationships with all segments of civil society. Some say Egypt could be one of the world's top 10 economies in a generation. That's a goal worth working toward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EURO (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



897 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Markets End Day With Slim Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street closed with narrow gains on Friday after General Electric and Google financial results fell short of expectations and investors looked for a resolution in the latest round of Greek debt talks.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.1 percent to 1,315.38, and the Dow Jones industrial average added 0.8 percent or 96.50 points to 12,720.48. The Nasdaq composite index fell slightly, down 0.1 percent, to end at 2,786.70.
Google shares slumped 8.5 percent after its quarterly profit and revenue missed Wall Street expectations on declining search advertising rates. 
''At this point, we are still at the starting line on earnings season,'' said Fred Dickson, chief market strategist at D. A. Davidson & Company in Lake Oswego, Ore. ''The good news is that the market has not reacted to the slow start.''
General Electric, the largest American conglomerate, ended the day unchanged on the New York Stock Exchange after reporting roughly flat profit from continuing operations; revenue missed estimates.
A strong outlook from I.B.M. and decent results from Intel and Microsoft on Thursday after the market closed signaled that corporate leaders were shaking off nervousness about economic growth and increasing technology spending. Microsoft shares were up 5.7 percent, and Intel edged up 2.9 percent. I.B.M. gained 4.4 percent.
''For the time being, investors are pretty much taking earnings in stride,'' said Paul Mendelsohn, chief investment strategist at Windham Financial Services in Charlotte, Vt. He added that investors seemed to feel stocks were ''very undervalued at these levels, even given the marginal misses they're making in earnings.''
Indeed, investors in recent weeks have been heartened by improving economic data, even though progress has been uneven. Reflecting improved economic sentiment, the Dow Jones Transportation Average, an indicator of the economy's strength has gained about 2 percent in each of the last two weeks.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 12/32, to 99 25/32. The yield rose to 2.03 percent, from 1.98 percent late Thursday.
In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50, an index of euro zone blue chips, closed down 0.3 percent. The DAX in Germany fell 0.2 percent and the CAC 40 in France was off the same. The FTSE 100 of leading British companies was down 0.2 percent.
''Economic news has been a little better than expected and we've had a lack of bad news from Europe, so investor interest has been buoyed by a little more optimism in terms of investor acceleration, but today just looks like a consolidation day,'' Mr. Dickson said.
Improving economic data in the United States along with signs of euro zone stability has helped push the S.& P. 500 up 4.6 percent to start the year.
In economic news in the United States, home sales hit an 11-month high in December and the number of properties on the market was the fewest in nearly seven years, pointing to a nascent recovery in the housing sector.
The National Association of Realtors said on Friday that existing-home sales increased 5 percent to an annual rate of 4.61 million units, with all four of the nation's regions recording gains. Sales of both multifamily and single-family homes rose.
But a glut of unsold properties that is weighing down on prices and stringent lending practices by banks is likely to make progress painfully slow. There were 2.38 million unsold homes on the market last month, the fewest since March 2005. That represented a 6.2-month supply at December's sales pace, the lowest since April 2006 and down from a 7.2-month supply in November.
The Realtors group noted, however, that the inventory of unsold homes tended to decline in winter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katy Darcy of Bella Casa Home Staging prepared a condo for a showing in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EURO ZONE (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); INTEL CORP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



898 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE FIFTH DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Super Bowl Tickets? Be Patient

BYLINE: By ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
Think you might want to go to the Super Bowl? To get the lowest price on the resale market, you may want to wait until the last minute.
Data from the resale site StubHub.com for the past two Super Bowls indicates that prices spike just after the conference championship games, once fans know if their team has advanced. Prices then fall, precipitously, as game time nears and sellers become nervous about being stuck with unsold tickets. 
''This is a window into how markets operate,'' said David Harrington, an economics professor at Kenyon College whose class lessons include examining Super Bowl ticket data.
As of Wednesday, several thousand tickets were available for this year's Super Bowl, on Feb. 5 in Indianapolis. Asking prices started at $2,099. If the past two Super Bowls are any guide, the peak number of transactions will occur on Monday, when the winners of the 49ers-Giants game and the Ravens-Patriots game are known.
Last year, the lowest price on that Monday was $2,500, with the median nearly $3,000 for about 570 tickets sold for the Super Bowl between the Green Bay Packers and the Pittsburgh Steelers. But on the Thursday before the game, the lowest price had dipped to $1,500, and the median was close to $2,600 for the almost 180 tickets sold that day.
The year before, when the New Orleans Saints beat the Indianapolis Colts, the pattern was similar. On the Monday after the conference championships, the lowest price was a shade under $1,700 with a median of almost $2,200 for close to 600 tickets sold. By Super Bowl Sunday, the low had plunged to $795, with a median closer to $1,700 for about 370 tickets sold.
If the Giants advance to the Super Bowl, their fans might have more competition than others. Resale data suggests that buyers typically come from the states with competing teams, the region where the Super Bowl is being played and the wealthy metropolitan regions of New York and Washington.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS FANS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (55%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (55%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (54%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



899 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Home Sales Quickened in December

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Home sales in the United States rose in December to the highest pace in nearly a year, the National Association of Realtors reported. The gain coincided with other signs that show the troubled housing market improved at the end of 2011. 
Still, sales remain depressed and ended the year well below healthy levels.
The Realtors group said home sales increased 5 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.61 million.
''The pattern of home sales in recent months demonstrates a market in recovery,'' said Lawrence Yun, the group's chief economist. ''Record low mortgage interest rates, job growth and bargain home prices are giving more consumers the confidence they need to enter the market.''
For the year, home sales totaled only 4.26 million, up from 4.19 million the previous year. Since the housing bust four years ago, home sales have slumped under the weight of foreclosures, tighter credit and falling price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FORECLOSURE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



900 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Online Hub For Parking

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
We've all been in this situation: You drive to an important appointment in the city -- or a big outing, say, at a sports arena -- and waste precious time frantically looking for a parking spot that won't cost you a day's wages.
ParkatmyHouse, an online service that began in Britain, is now working on a debut in the United States. It aims to increase the supply of affordable parking by making use of private spots, in driveways or in parking decks, that are available. The concept is similar to the online lodging service Airbnb, except you're renting parking spaces instead of a room. 
Anthony Eskinazi, ParkatmyHouse's founder and chief executive, said in telephone interview that his company had been operating since 2006 in Britain, where it claims roughly 150,000 registered users and an inventory of some 40,000 parking spaces. Mr. Eskinazi describes the service a ''matchmaker'' between drivers and parking spaces.
Mr. Eskinazi is beginning to market the service's operations in the United States, with an initial focus on the New York/New Jersey/Connecticut area, as well as in Boston and Washington. The domestic version of the site is just getting started. When I recently typed ''parkatmyhouse'' into Google, it showed a link to a Web site that lets you submit a request for an area in which you'd like to find parking. (It also provided a link that led to the British Web site, which could be helpful if, say, you are hunting for a spot near Heathrow Airport.)
Mr. Eskinazi said he was working on lining up owners to list their parking spots on the United States Web site and that visitors would soon be connected automatically to a live search site. (To get an idea of how it will work, he said, you can check out a smattering of live rentals available in the Boston area. But he warns that the site isn't ''Americanized,'' so there may, for instance, be some confusing British lingo.)
Mr. Eskinazi said he thought the idea would catch on quickly, as people became more familiar with the so-called ''sharing economy. ''The U.S. market is huge,'' he said, noting that people can spend years on waiting lists for available monthly commuter parking in parts of Connecticut. The company has backing from BMW i Ventures, a venture capital outfit based in New York City.
Here's how the site works in Britain, and, if Mr. Eskinazi's efforts pan out, here as well. If you want find a spot to rent, whether for a day, a week or on a regular basis, you type in the relevant Zip code to find available spots, along with information about the rates and other attributes (that is, outdoors, in a garage, lighting and security features, etc). You can rent short-term or long-term, depending on your needs and what's available. You must register on the site and can ask for more details about the property from the owner before committing. The site provides a contract for you to download.
Renters can pay for their space using a credit or debit card or PayPal, Mr. Eskinazi said. ParkatmyHouse makes a 15 percent commission on each transaction. (The frequently asked questions on the British site mention a cash payment option, but Mr. Eskinazi said that option would be removed ''shortly.'')
In Britain, he said, one renter is a mother who used a parking space for 15 minutes each weekday morning so she can park and walk her child into school. Another is a homeowner who rents her driveway during soccer matches at a nearby stadium.
If you own a spot you want to rent, you can list it -- along with its availability and rate -- free on the site. Homeowners with just one spot in their driveway can list it, as can businesses with a larger lot that's vacant on weekends, or churches that have empty spots during the week, he said. ''Honestly, it's whatever you want. We're completely flexible.''
There are some requirements. You must own the parking space you list or have the legal right to rent it. If your space comes along with an apartment you rent, for instance, you probably need your landlord's permission to rent out the space. In Britain, at least, landlords are often agreeable if they are given a cut of the parking income, Mr. Eskinazi said.
As a security precaution, the Web site does not list the specific address of the parking space in question. That's provided later in the transaction. The service also makes other safety suggestions, like asking the renter to provide a description of the vehicle and information about who will be driving it when it shows up.
What do you think of this concept? Would you rent from a private homeowner? Or list your own parking space for rent to strangers?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



901 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: French Weigh Afghan Exit After Killings

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Alissa J. Rubin from Kabul, Afghanistan. Reporting was contributed by John F. Burns and Alan Cowell from London, Jack Ewing from Frankfurt and Rachel Donadio from Athens.

 BODY:
PARIS -- President Nicolas Sarkozy of France suspended military training and assistance for Afghan forces on Friday and said he would consider an early withdrawal from Afghanistan after an Afghan soldier shot and killed four French soldiers on a base in eastern Afghanistan.
The attack was the latest in a series of episodes in which Afghan soldiers or police officers, or insurgents wearing official uniforms, have opened fire on soldiers of the American-led coalition in Afghanistan.
The killings are intended to sap Western morale and hasten the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan sooner than an agreed NATO deadline of the end of 2014, when Afghan forces are supposed to be ready to defend the country on their own. A rising number of the attacks have also been born of simmering animosity between coalition forces and the Afghan soldiers they fight alongside and train.
With many European countries facing unprecedented economic pressures at home, such attacks by Afghan soldiers on foreign troops have added to public questioning of the value of continued involvement in Afghanistan. If France were to reduce its troops early or precipitously, it could spur other countries to follow suit, Western and Afghan officials warned. 
France has been a firm ally of the United States in Afghanistan, with the fourth-largest contingent of troops, according to NATO figures, and 82 French soldiers have died, many of them killed fighting in Kapisa Province in eastern Afghanistan, where Friday's shooting occurred.
Facing a fierce battle for his re-election, Mr. Sarkozy said that security had better improve in Afghanistan, for France to stay.
''If security conditions are not established clearly, then the question of an early return of the French Army will arise,'' he told diplomats in a foreign affairs speech at the Elysee Palace. ''It will be a difficult decision that we will have to take in the coming days, but I have to do it while being able to face the French public and our soldiers.''
France and its army ''is at the side of its allies, but we cannot accept that a single one of our soldiers be killed or wounded by our allies,'' he said. ''It is unacceptable; I will not accept it.''
Mr. Sarkozy's main rival, the Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande, who is leading in the polls for the spring vote, immediately repeated his call for French troops to pull out of Afghanistan by the end of the year, a break with NATO solidarity.
The sense of French wavering was felt strongly in Kabul. Mr. Sarkozy's talk of leaving early, even if rhetorical, ''is not very good in terms of alliance cohesion,'' said a Western official in Kabul, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the news media.
An early French withdrawal could lay bare ''real cracks in the coalition,'' the official said, at a time when the alliance is seeking a cohesive position to end the war.
NATO is trying to convince the Afghan government of its long-term commitment, while pushing the Taliban insurgents to negotiate a peace deal rather than continue fighting. Both efforts have been only moderately successful.
There is no question that the patience of America's NATO allies with the expensive, deadly Afghan war has been running out. They joined the war alongside the United States, which had been attacked by Al Qaeda on Sept. 11, 2001, from its sanctuaries in Afghanistan. But the Taliban government is long gone, Osama bin Laden is dead, and Al Qaeda has been diminished and mostly pushed into Pakistan.
Washington, too, is looking for a dignified exit.
Mr. Sarkozy has already rejected earlier American requests to add to the 3,900 French troops currently in Afghanistan, according to NATO. While he has withdrawn forces in parallel proportion with the United States, he is widely expected to accelerate those withdrawals. He has already said that he will pull out 1,200 troops this year.
The killings of allied forces by Afghan soldiers have added to the sense that after a decade of war even supposedly sympathetic Afghans would like to see the foreigners gone.
Friday's episode appeared to be the second fatal attack in a month involving an Afghan soldier firing on French troops. On Dec. 29, two French soldiers were killed by a man wearing an Afghan uniform, who was shot dead.
On Friday, the gunman turned his weapon on unarmed French troops, according to an Afghan police official in Kapisa Province and Lt. Col. Michel Sabatier, a spokesman for French forces in Afghanistan.
Colonel Sabatier told news agencies that the 35 French troops, embedded with Afghans at a base in Gwan, were not wearing body armor when the Afghan soldier opened fire with an automatic weapon. The gunman is in custody, a NATO official said. Eight of the 15 who were wounded are in serious condition, the colonel said.
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan said he was ''grieved by the incident'' and confirmed that an initial investigation indicated that the gunman was an Afghan National Army soldier.
Last week, a senior French official, asked about Afghanistan, said the French public was wondering how long its troops needed to stay in the face of Afghan resentment. ''We have made a lot of sacrifices in lives and money, and yet it's very difficult to foresee a lasting solution there,'' the official said.
Germany harbors similar doubts. While they are the third-largest contingent, German troops do little ground fighting and mostly train Afghan personnel. The German Parliament will vote next week on a government proposal to reduce its forces to 4,400 by the end of 2012 from just under 5,000.
Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle of Germany, in Washington on Friday, said the death of the French soldiers would not change those plans. ''Such tragic setbacks must not weaken our determination or divert us from our commitment to peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan,'' he said in a statement.
Italy, with the fifth-largest contingent, will continue a ''gradual reduction'' of troops through 2014, ''in accord with allies as part of official strategy,'' said Maurizio Massari, the Italian Foreign Ministry spokesman. He said he had no comment about French policy decisions.
''We stick to the principles that decisions should be taken in NATO,'' he said. ''We do what we agreed in NATO. If other countries decide something else, that's their decision.''
Britain, whose 9,500 troops are the second-largest contribution to the war effort in Afghanistan, has had troops killed in similar attacks to the one that took the lives of the four French soldiers.
In all, 395 British military personnel have died in the conflict, also the second highest for any of the 49 nations contributing troops to the NATO-led alliance.
The casualties have been a major factor in widespread popular support for an early withdrawal of British troops, as reflected in a long string of opinion polls and a restiveness in Parliament.
But Prime Minister David Cameron is less politically exposed on the issue than Mr. Sarkozy, with no likelihood of an election in Britain before 2015. He has said that such deaths will not speed Britain's timetable, which aims for ending all combat operations by December 2014, when Afghan forces are scheduled to have assumed responsibility for fighting the Taliban. This year, 500 British troops will be brought home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: French soldiers returning from patrol last month in eastern Afghanistan. France has about 3,900 troops in the war. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL SAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANCE (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



902 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Normally United, Citadel Cadets Differ on Republican Favorite

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN and BEN WERSCHKUL

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- At the Citadel, cadets wear matching uniforms, march in lockstep and endure rigorous physical training together. But these days, the Republicans among them -- and they are overwhelmingly Republican -- are divided on a crucial issue: whom to support as the next commander in chief.
The Citadel, a public military college, is an almost mandatory stop for presidential candidates, especially Republicans. Its fortress-like buildings and clean-cut students make an ideal backdrop as politicians court South Carolina voters, 9 percent of whom are veterans. But unlike in the 2008 election, when the Citadel and its powerful alumni united behind Senator John McCain, the current cadets are still making up their minds. 
''There's not any one dominant military candidate, and you see that with the students,'' said Scott Buchanan, a political science professor at the 3,300-student college.
Members of the Citadel Republican Society drove to Iowa this summer to canvass for Rick Santorum, the former senator of Pennsylvania. Others are phone-banking for Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. Still others have raised donations for Representative Ron Paul of Texas -- the most controversial candidate on campus for his proposal to reduce troops overseas. And Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, received roars of applause last year for a speech on campus in which he called the cadets ''heroes.''
It is easy to see why the college is a regular stop for Republican presidential hopefuls. Students joke that they can count the number of Democrats on campus on two hands. Asked whether President Obama has supporters on campus, Tyler Paul Smith, 21, a cadet from Georgia volunteering for the Gingrich campaign, said, ''If he does, I sure don't know about it.''
Mr. Santorum has aggressively campaigned at Citadel, even learning cadets' names. He is scheduled to speak to the Citadel Republican Society on Friday evening, and hold his primary party on the campus the next night.
Townes Moore, 20, a cadet from Charleston, has volunteered for the Santorum campaign since the summer. He estimates that he has made at least 5,000 phone calls to voters.
''If Rick Santorum were president, I'd be honored to be sent overseas,'' he said. ''He's strong on national security, so I'd feel very safe with him in office.''
The only presidential candidate with a military record is Mr. Paul, who served as a medical doctor in the Air Force. But Mr. Santorum has emphasized his work on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Mr. Gingrich speaks about visiting World War I battlegrounds while his stepfather was stationed in the Army.
Most cadets will be voting for the first time in a presidential election. And they realize that the outcome could determine whether they are sent overseas after graduation.
In interviews this week, they said they were picking candidates for economic, religious or social issues. But with 36 percent of Citadel graduates entering the military, according to the college, most cadets said their top priority was having a president who keeps their classmates both safe and employed.
''We don't need to fight wars that are impossible to win,'' said John Moss, 20, a cadet from Clover, S.C. ''But we need to realize there are a lot of people who don't like the United States, and we need to protect ourselves.''
In the final hours of the campaign in South Carolina, politically active cadets said they would be passing out yard signs and speaking to voters. And it is not lost on them why candidates are so eager for their help.
''Having Citadel cadets on your side is always a good thing,'' Mr. Smith said. ''If you send out propaganda, it looks good to have Citadel cadets behind you.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); WORLD WAR I (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); STEPPARENTS (50%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (94%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



903 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Once Schooled by Him, Santorum Moves to Give Gingrich Lessons

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- Late in Thursday night's debate, Newt Gingrich yielded his time to Rick Santorum to address whether Mitt Romney genuinely opposed abortion rights.
Most candidates like to hoard screen time for themselves, but Mr. Gingrich knew that Mr. Santorum was as versed and passionate on the subject as anyone. So he decorously deferred to Mr. Santorum, expecting him to dismantle Mr. Romney's record.
Mr. Santorum did. But he did not stop there. In an unexpected twist, he went on to use Mr. Gingrich's own time to attack Mr. Gingrich's commitment to the cause. 
It was a telling moment -- one that revealed Mr. Santorum's newfound urgency to undercut Mr. Gingrich.
The two are headed for a climactic showdown Saturday in the South Carolina presidential primary. The outcome will most likely shape the course of the nominating contest while it shreds a personal relationship of more than two decades.
Mr. Santorum, 53, a former senator of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Gingrich, 68, a former speaker of the House, are competing ferociously for the same pool of conservative and evangelical voters, who make up 60 percent of South Carolina's registered Republicans. Whoever lags behind the other will face intense pressure to drop out in hopes that conservatives can unite and block the more moderate Mr. Romney. But both are digging in and preparing for the next primary, in Florida on Jan. 31.
''If they both stay in, they both lose,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who was a longtime adviser to Mr. Gingrich but is a friend of Mr. Santorum and says he is neutral in their standoff. ''One of them has to go. But they both have the right to stay in.''
As often happens in primaries, the two rivals are longtime allies. But in this case, one, Mr. Santorum, was a student of the other, and their rivalry seems to have taken on a generational cast.
''Essentially, Santorum has the new guard, and Newt has the old guard,'' said John Brabender, Mr. Santorum's senior media adviser.
When he was running for a Congressional seat in Pennsylvania in 1990, Mr. Santorum was one of a generation of young Republicans whom Mr. Gingrich schooled in conservative philosophy and rebel tactics.
Mr. Gingrich, with his provocative language, helped train the recruits by recording cassette tapes so they could absorb his advice and worldview.
''Newt Gingrich was the guy whose tapes I listened to,'' Mr. Santorum recalled at an earlier debate, before the two became such rivals. ''He laid out a vision for conservative governance that I adopted and ran with in a very, very tough Congressional district.''
They still hold similar political views. They both call for less government and lower taxes and express a reverence for the founding fathers and revulsion toward ''elites.''
''If there's a degree of separation, Rick draws more from the hard-core social conservatives, especially on gay marriage, and Newt draws a little bit more on the economic freedom side of it,'' said Charlie Gerow, a Republican consultant who is friends with both, but is now Mr. Gingrich's Pennsylvania chairman.
''But beyond that,'' he said, ''their philosophy is almost totally the same.''
Now, with polls suggesting Mr. Gingrich is ahead of Mr. Santorum here, the acolyte has turned on the master.
''Newt's a friend, I love him,'' Mr. Santorum said at the debate here with a pained expression even as he savaged him as having ''grandiose'' ideas, ''incoherent thoughts'' and ''no discipline.'' The party, he said, would always be worried ''that something's going to pop.'' He also noted that Mr. Gingrich was forced out of the speakership by his own troops.
Mr. Gingrich refrained from lashing back at the debate, though he does so on the campaign trail, dismissing Mr. Santorum as a ''junior partner'' in the Republican revolution. ''Rick played a key role in passing welfare reform, no question,'' Mr. Gingrich told a crowd, adding quickly, ''It wouldn't have happened if I hadn't been speaker.''
He also says Mr. Santorum is not equipped to manage a national campaign on the scale necessary to beat President Obama or bring true change to Washington. Mr. Gingrich reminds voters that Mr. Santorum lost his Senate re-election bid in 2006 by a crushing 18 percentage points.
This infuriates Mr. Santorum because he won more votes than Mr. Gingrich in Iowa (even belatedly winning the state) and in New Hampshire.
Allies of both men were surprised by the amount of blood spilled at Thursday's debate but thought the attacks would make little difference to voters.
''I think Rick is feeling a little desperate at this point,'' said Bob Walker, a former representative of Pennsylvania, a senior adviser to Mr. Gingrich. ''I think he does see a coalescing taking place among conservatives around Newt's candidacy and he's fighting to make himself relevant.''
It is not clear whether the current rift in the Santorum-Gingrich relationship will be permanent. Some political veterans suggest they could still work together in the future, even after all this.
''Go back and look what Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama were saying about each other four years ago in South Carolina,'' said Stuart Stevens, a top adviser to Mr. Romney. ''It was just vicious, vicious. That was a campaign that left Bill Clinton in tears.''
Now, of course, those three may be a team of rivals, but they are a team.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ABORTION (73%); RELIGION (52%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



904 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: The Ad Campaign: Union Invades G.O.P. Territory

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the giant public employees' union, will begin airing a 30-second video ad in Florida on Saturday attacking Mitt Romney for making what it said was a $473,000 profit from his firm's investments in a medical company that admitted engaging in Medicare fraud.
-The ad, to be aired in Tampa, Orlando and West Palm Beach, states that Mr. Romney was a board member of the company, Damon Clinical Laboratories, which later admitted to defrauding Medicare of millions of dollars by billing for unneeded blood tests. The ad quotes the United States attorney at the time calling it ''corporate greed run amok.'' 
-The ad, showing grim, gray pictures of Mr. Romney, asks, ''What kind of businessman is Mitt Romney?''
-According to The Boston Globe, financial documents showed that Mr. Romney made $473,000 when Corning Inc. purchased Damon in 1993. Mr. Romney had served on Damon's board from 1990 to 1993.
Mr. Romney's investment firm, Bain Capital, made $7.4 million from the sale, after having tripled its original investment in Damon. Three years after the sale, Damon pleaded guilty to defrauding the federal government of $25 million by billing for unnecessary blood tests between 1988 and 1993. Damon paid a $119 million fine.
Larry Scanlon, the union's political director, said this was the first time that his union, which overwhelmingly backs Democrats, was running an ad in a Republican primary fight. He said the union was spending nearly $1 million to run the ad on broadcast and cable television as well as the Internet.
''We have a great interest in who the next president of the United States is,'' Mr. Scanlon said in an interview. ''We're concerned that there is a picture being painted of Mitt Romney, that he's a wonderful economic savior and that he will somehow resuscitate the American economy on his terms, which are terms we don't like.''
Mr. Scanlon said the ad would appeal to retirees, the elderly, independents and voters who care about how federal money is spent. His union has traditionally been one of the biggest spenders among unions in backing Democratic candidates.
Florida is of course a pivotal swing state that the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees hopes to help deliver to President Obama in November.
When the Damon scandal became public, a Romney spokesman said Mr. Romney and other board members had helped uncover the fraud after similar practices were found at another laboratory in 1992. The spokesman said Mr. Romney and Damon's board used the board's law firm to investigate and take ''corrective action'' months before Corning purchased Damon.
But The Boston Globe found that court records, including statements by prosecutors and Damon officials, had indicated that the fraud continued until Corning purchased the firm in 1993. Prosecutors gave Corning sole credit for cleaning up the fraud. Mr. Romney and Damon's other board members were never implicated in the federal investigation, The Globe wrote.
-The new Florida ad shows a photo of Mr. Romney melding into a photograph of Florida's Republican governor, Rick Scott, who has infuriated public-sector unions with his efforts to weaken their ability to bargain collectively.
-After showing Mr. Romney and Mr. Scott, the ad ends, ''Corporate greed, Medicare fraud. Sound familiar?''
-Mr. Scott ran Columbia/HCA, the giant health care company, for a decade, resigning in 1997 during an F.B.I. investigation that ultimately resulted in the company paying a record $1.7 billion in criminal and civil fines for Medicare fraud.
Mr. Scott has repeatedly said he takes responsibility for what happened on his watch as chief executive, but he has denied knowing that any fraud was taking place while he was there. He was never charged with any crimes.
''Romney was a director of a company where there was massive fraud perpetrated against the federal government and the taxpayer, and that company ended up paying a hefty fine,'' Mr. Scanlon said. ''He's very similar to the governor of Florida in that regard.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); MEDICARE FRAUD (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SCANDALS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (64%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: CORNING INC (83%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (91%)

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



905 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: The Dawn Of Lower Pay On Wall St.

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
The day of reckoning may be at hand.
This week, the venerable investment bank Morgan Stanley stunned a generation of Wall Street bankers and traders by announcing that it was capping cash bonuses for 2011 at $125,000. Its top executives, including the chief executive, James P. Gorman, and his management team, will receive zero cash. And the Republican presidential front-runner, Mitt Romney, reignited a national debate over taxing the rich and Wall Street pay by revealing that his tax rate was in the 15 percent range, joining the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett among the ranks of the favored few who pay lower rates than people earning just a small fraction of their millions. Mr. Romney hasn't revealed his tax returns or total income, but disclosure forms indicate he received $9.6 million in 2010 and part of 2011 and had a net worth in excess of $250 million, much of it derived from his days as head of the private equity firm Bain Capital.
For most people, $125,000 is a lot of money, and for people on Wall Street, the cash bonus comes on top of base pay that has increased in recent years. The average base pay for managing directors at Morgan Stanley has risen to $400,000 and to $600,000 at Goldman Sachs. Employees also earn large parts of their bonuses in deferred cash and stock. 
But $125,000 is a pittance by Wall Street standards. Citigroup paid Andrew Hall, a star commodities trader, a bonus of $98 million in 2008, the year of the financial crisis. As recently as 2010, many traders and investment bankers were arguing over whether their yearly bonuses should be eight figures rather than seven. Compensation at the 25 largest firms hit a record $135 billion that year, according to an analysis by The Wall Street Journal.
This week, Wall Street veterans were marveling that after paying federal and New York's high state and city income taxes, Morgan Stanley employees who get the maximum cash bonus would take home just $65,000 to $75,000 on top of their base pay. ''That's an eye-opener,'' said Michael Driscoll, a former top trader at Bear Stearns and Geosphere Capital, a hedge fund, who is now a visiting professor at Adelphi University. Many people on Wall Street, he said, have ''multiple homes at high cost and with big mortgages, private school payments, college tuitions, car leases and payments. They were out over their skis with leverage and assumed the good days would last forever.''
Last year, Morgan Stanley increased the deferred portion of cash compensation to 60 percent from 40 percent, a move that was greeted with howls from employees who said they didn't have enough advance notice and needed the money to meet mortgage payments, school costs and other fixed expenses. ''The cost of living is so high in the New York area that we found it was a genuine hardship,'' a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman told me this week. This year, cash bonuses for employees making $250,000 or less will be paid in full, with none of it deferred, although the bonuses are being capped at $125,000.
Even for those making seven figures or more, the cuts ''are a blow,'' Mr. Driscoll said. ''The effect is psychological. To a large extent, Wall Street keeps score by what you're paid. If you're making $750,000 or $1 million, you're doing O.K. by any reasonable standard. A lot of people make that kind of money. But it affects people's psyches. It's a hard thing for the other 99 percent to grasp, but for better or worse, that's how they measure their value and self-worth: what their paycheck is. I'm not trying to defend that, but that's how it is. Now they're being paid less and less. They're being pilloried in the press and by the 99 percent. Even Republican candidates are attacking you. People in the industry are being treated like pariahs.''
An investment banker I know lamented, ''Contrary to popular opinion, bankers are people, enduring the human condition like other people. The industry is experiencing massive retrenchment, waves of redundancies, endless public criticism and repeated cutbacks in compensation levels.''
Overall compensation on Wall Street this year is expected to drop at least 30 percent, reflecting the dismal financial results reported this week by the industry standard-bearers Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley. The compensation ratios are hard to evaluate because this year's payouts include the deferred portions of previous years' awards, and include only the current components of this year's.
Still, a trend seems clear. At Goldman Sachs, compensation was just over 42 percent of revenue, and at JPMorgan Chase it was 34 percent for the investment bank -- low by historical standards. Even with the new caps on cash bonuses, Morgan Stanley's compensation was something of an outlier, representing 51 percent of revenue, which reflects high costs at its global wealth management division, where brokers are paid on commission. Still, Morgan Stanley's ratio was sharply lower than 2009's 62 percent, which Mr. Gorman at the time vowed ''no one will ever see again.''
In a regulatory filing Friday, Morgan Stanley said Mr. Gorman's total compensation for 2011, including stock and deferred cash, would drop by 25 percent, to $10.5 million from $14 million in 2010.
Wall Street firms typically aim for a compensation ratio of less than 50 percent of revenue, but especially in weak years, they've often gone higher. One of the maddening aspects of Wall Street pay, at least for those outside the industry, is that in good times bankers and traders have demanded what they consider their fair share, often invoking the adage ''we eat what we kill.'' But in lean years, they've also insisted on high pay, threatening to jump to a competitor. What is different this year is that firms seem willing to call that bluff.
''In prior years, you'd see the ratios jump in down years,'' said Brian Foley, an executive compensation expert. ''You aren't going to see that this year. The retention argument was always there, but it's tough to make that argument this year because much of the Street is down. Where are they going to go? People are cutting back or even eliminating investment banking. They're laying people off. A hedge fund? There are only so many hedge funds. And hedge funds haven't had such a good year, either. Plus, the job security there is weak. It's a limited opportunity, and now it's constrained. Private equity is also limited. Those doors are closing.''
And European banks like Deutsche Bank and UBS, which once aggressively poached Wall Street talent, are reeling from the European debt crisis and have all but stopped hiring. UBS announced that it was sharply curtailing its investment banking operations after years of expansion. One Wall Street executive told me that ''frankly, what's different from last year is that the playing field feels even. Last year, they could walk across the street to Deutsche Bank, and we had some defections. This year, there's very little risk. A top trader isn't going to walk out the door.''
And a person with knowledge of Mr. Gorman's decision at Morgan Stanley said he ''wants people to think long term.''
Another factor has been the Federal Reserve, which has been closely scrutinizing Wall Street compensation practices in an effort to align incentives with longer-term interests and to curb incentives for excessive risk-taking. ''We're very aware of the environment we're operating in,'' the Morgan Stanley spokeswoman said. ''We're taking a disciplined approach to compensation and trying to align it with shareholder interests. And the bottom line is, it wasn't a good year.''
Such changes are arguably long overdue. Many people are still enraged by the perverse compensation practices that had the insurance giant American International Group using money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program to pay millions in guaranteed bonuses to employees after investments drove the firm to insolvency. ''I know no one is going to shed any tears over these people,'' Mr. Driscoll said. ''But I know people who are having a tough time keeping it all together. You can manage for a year or so, but eventually the compensation levels we're seeing are going to catch up with you.''
It remains to be seen whether Wall Street's newfound pay discipline will stick. A culture in which self-worth is measured by pay isn't going to change overnight, or even in a few years. But virtually everyone I spoke to agreed that Wall Street pay, while still lofty, will be lower for the foreseeable future, and may never return to the heady days of 2007. ''Internally, it's troubling for people,'' one executive told me. ''But they're going to have to change the way they think. In the mid-1990s, everyone did fine, the pay was perfectly respectable, and it didn't make headlines. The chief executive made $4 million, and you thought that was great. Was anything so wrong with that?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Gorman, Morgan Stanley's chief, will get no cash bonus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); TUITION FEES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (76%); JAMES GORMAN (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



906 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: A Hazing At a Wall St. Fraternity

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE. 
Ron Lieber, whose Your Money column normally appears on this page, is off.

 BODY:
The chandelier-filled ballroom was teeming with 200 men in tuxedos - and a smattering of women - whose daily decisions can collectively make or break the global financial markets. Most were picking over a lavish dinner that included rack of lamb and creme brulee. Others were preparing to sing bawdy show tunes.
Kappa Beta Phi, an exclusive Wall Street fraternity whose members include big-name bankers, hedge fund billionaires and private equity titans, met at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan on Thursday night for its 80th annual black-tie dinner and induction ceremony.
As always, the event was held in strict secrecy, with members being told that ''what happens at the St. Regis stays at the St. Regis.'' 
A reporter, however, was able to walk in unquestioned and observe the proceedings.
Neither a rough year in the financial markets nor the animus of the Occupy Wall Street movement was enough to dampen spirits at this year's dinner, which was attended by members like Alan C. Greenberg, known as Ace, the former chairman of Bear Stearns; Robert H. Benmosche, the chairman of the American International Group; Meredith Whitney of the Whitney Advisory Group; and Martin Lipton, founding partner of the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
The Occupy movement was fodder for several after-dinner skits. In one, a documentary filmed during the protests, James Lebenthal, a bond specialist, joked with a protester whose face was appeared to be tattooed.
''Go home, wash that off your face, and get back to work,'' Mr. Lebenthal told the protester.
Reached through his daughter on Friday, Mr. Lebenthal declined to comment.
In another skit, William Mulrow , a senior managing director at the Blackstone Group, put on raggedy clothes to play the part of an Occupy protester. Emil W. Henry Jr., a managing partner at Tiger Infrastructure Partners and a fellow new Kappa, joined him dressed as a wealthy baron.
''Bill, look at you! You're pathetic, you liberal! You need a bath!'' Mr. Henry said, voice full of mock indignation.
''You callow, insensitive Republican!'' Mr. Mulrow said. ''Don't you know we need to create jobs?''
A Blackstone spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Mulrow's behalf. Mr. Henry was not immediately available for comment.
The night's agenda was twofold: install officers for the coming year and haze incoming members by having them don wigs, gold-sequined skirts and skin-tight tops and put on a comedic variety show for the enjoyment of other members.
Among the 21 inductees featured in the variety show were Marc Lasry, the billionaire founder of the Avenue Capital Group, Warren Stephens, the chief of Stephens Inc. and Ted Virtue, the chief executive of MidOcean Partners.
Kappa Beta Phi, which started in 1929 as a group of Wall Street bigwigs whose social club was named as a send-up of Phi Beta Kappa, the honor society, has become a sort of upper-crust Friar's Club roast.
The group's leadership consists of a ''Grand Swipe,'' ''Grand Smudge,'' ''Grand Loaf,'' and a ''Master-at-Arms.''
Some members wear the group's insignia, which consists of a beer stein, a Champagne glass, a pointing hand and five stars. The group's Latin motto, ''Dum vivamus edimus et biberimus,'' roughly translates as ''While we live, we eat and drink.''
Members pay $475 a year in dues for the invitation-only group, according to a person who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Absent from this year's gathering were Wall Street exiles like Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers; James E. Cayne, the former chief of Bear Stearns; and Jon S. Corzine, the former Goldman Sachs head who presided over the failed brokerage firm MF Global. All are still listed in the group's member directory, though the men are said not to have attended in a few years.
Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the billionaire investor who served as this year's Grand Swipe, acknowledged the foibles of those prominent Kappas.
''We have members from every firm that has failed, as well as members from those that will fail in the future,'' he said to loud laughter.
After Mr. Ross's opening remarks and a presentation by representatives from the group's Los Angeles chapter, the inductees broke into their variety acts.
Some jokes took aim at industry outsiders like Representative Barney Frank, the Democrat of Massachusetts who has been an advocate of financial regulation. But most Kappas roasted fellow financiers.
Mr. Corzine, the latest of the prominent Kappas to fall from grace, proved an inviting target. Two initiates did a comedy act lampooning Mr. Corzine and Steven A. Cohen, a prominent hedge fund manager whose firm, SAC Capital Advisors, has had some former employees who have been ensnared in recent insider-trading investigations. (Neither Mr. Cohen, who is not a Kappa, nor Mr. Corzine has been accused of any wrongdoing.)
''What do Steve Cohen and Jon Corzine have in common?'' the joke went. ''They're future cellmates!''
The bulk of the entertainment came in the form of musical spoofs.
Inductees sang Wall Street-themed versions of ''Mama, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys,'' (replacing ''cowboys'' with ''traders'') and Abba's ''Dancing Queen'' (which was retitled ''Bailout King''). Mr. Lasry, along with two other inductees, dressed as a member of the Village People for a financial rendition of ''Y.M.C.A.'' Mr. Lasry declined to comment.
As is customary during Kappa events, some audience members threw objects at performers on stage, including petit fours and napkins dipped in wine.
Kappa Beta Phi's gatherings have become divisive among members in recent years. Some Wall Street executives, wary of taking part in an event that could be construed as tone-deaf to the economic woes facing the country, are choosing not to attend.
''The skits can be offensive and I don't want to sit through it,'' said one fraternity member who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Ross defended Kappa Beta Phi on the grounds that the same freedom of speech rights afforded to Occupy Wall Street should be extended to the group's members.
''This is not a political convention,'' he said by telephone on Friday. ''It's a group of people that are friendly with each other trying to have an enjoyable evening, mostly at each others' expense.''
While they may not want to attract attention publicly, the members of Kappa Beta Phi are privately finding humor in their vilification. As the night's musical finale, the entire group of inductees changed into white dress shirts and dark ties to sing a parody of ''I Believe,'' a song from the hit Broadway show ''The Book of Mormon.''
In the original version of the song, a down-and-out Mormon missionary offers a passionate defense of his faith. On this night, though, the financiers turned it into a playful paean to their industry. (''I believe that the Lord God created Wall Street. I believe he got his only son a job at Goldman Sachs.'')
Off-key and raucous, the financiers raised their voices once more.
''I work on Wall Street. And Wall Street just believes.''
Susanne Craig contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOVIE FILMING (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); JOB CREATION (50%)

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (83%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); STEPHENS INC (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (73%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (72%); ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



907 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vow On Exports Is on Track, With Help

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Two years ago, President Obama popped a surprise into his State of the Union address: His administration would double American exports in five years, helping to create two million jobs.
The bold promise sent the eyebrows of economists and policy experts upward, even as they applauded its intent.
''How will he perform this miracle?'' Leslie H. Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, asked at the time. ''It really is a mystery.'' 
Two years later, the administration is on track -- for now -- to meet its ambitious goal. Growing exports have been one of the central drivers of the recovery, accounting for about half the nation's economic growth since the recession ended. Economists say the administration deserves credit for some of the gains. It has pressured China to increase the value of its currency and open its markets to American businesses. It has worked closely with American companies looking to sell goods and services throughout the world.
Exports are running at about $180 billion a month, according to Commerce Department data, up from $140 billion a month two years ago. They are currently growing at an annual pace of about 16 percent -- a percentage-point higher than necessary to double exports to $3.1 trillion by 2015.
But while economists and trade experts praise the export boomlet, they warn that some of the reasons behind the rise, including announcing the goal when exports were at a low point, may be waning.
''I'd say 90 percent is due to macro trends,'' said Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''You could say the best thing the Obama administration did for trade is the stimulus program,'' bolstering domestic and global demand, he added.
That will not stop Mr. Obama from promoting export success in his State of the Union address on Tuesday. The White House pushed through three long-stalled free-trade deals, with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. In November, it also announced the framework for a trade and investment agreement among nine Pacific nations, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
''If we're going to grow, it's going to be because of exports,'' Mr. Obama told a meeting of business executives at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meetings in Hawaii in November.
Trade experts say those changes have done some good -- but note that American exports got a major boost from economic trends over the last two years, including a global rebound from the depths of the recession and rising prices for commodities, like wheat, cotton and petroleum products.
Indeed, the Obama administration started its five-year clock when global trade volumes were near their recession-era lows. Manufacturing exports of goods like airplanes and machinery, for instance, have snapped back to nearly their prerecession peak.
''We've had 15 percent growth,'' said Andrew B. Bernard, a professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. ''A lot of that is recovering -- just getting back to where normal life would be. And a lot of it has to do with the rapid recovery of our trading partners.''
He said an ''optimistic'' -- but more realistic -- benchmark for annual export growth in the coming years was about 8 percent.
In the last two years, the recovery -- and roaring demand from developing countries -- also helped to drive up prices for commodities to the benefit of American farmers, miners and energy companies. Farm exports reached a record $137.4 billion in the 2011 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, beating the previous annual peak by $22.5 billion, or 20 percent. Sales of petroleum products also hit a record of about $90 billion in 2011, making fuels the country's single biggest export.
''Coming out of global economic recession, trade does tend to come back faster,'' said Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative.
But, he said, ''the export initiative is real. And the success has been, actually, pretty remarkable,'' he said. ''We're doing everything we can to facilitate trade, knock down barriers and do export promotion.''
Still, the global trends that aided American export growth in the last two years appear to be diminishing, and 2012 poses new headwinds.
First, global investors are flocking to the safety of the stronger dollar in light of the crisis in Europe. That has pushed the borrowing costs of the United States to near-record lows. But it makes American exports relatively more expensive and might mean that developing economies will turn to cheaper, euro-denominated goods and services.
More worrying is a global slowdown and easing commodity prices. Europe, the nation's biggest trading partner, is on the brink of recession. And the International Monetary Fund and World Bank are also warning that the emerging-market economies that provided the bulk of growth in the global recovery are cooling off.
A financial crisis in the euro zone could slash global trade by more than 7 percent, the World Bank forecast this week. And even if Europe merely muddles through, the bank expects global trade growth of 4.7 percent in 2012, down from 12.4 percent two years ago.
An emerging-market slowdown might prove even more consequential for American exporters than woes in rich European countries. Much of the export growth in the last two years has come from countries like China, South Korea, Brazil and India, and developing countries now buy a majority of exported goods and services. Sales of goods to China, for instance, have grown fivefold over the last decade -- while exports to all countries have roughly doubled.
Many forecasters remain optimistic that exports will continue expanding in 2012, if not quite as quickly. And the long-term trends remain in the favor of the United States, as growing emerging-market economies move hundreds of millions of consumers into the middle class.
''There's a view that there's more potential'' for American exports to China, a senior administration official said.
''If there were a stronger and better market opening, a better playing field and more protection of intellectual property and trade secrets, we could be doing more business with each other.''
In this year's State of the Union, the White House is expected to announce new measures to help bolster trade, including a new task force to monitor and enforce trade rules.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rice is loaded onto a ship at the Port of West Sacramento in California. American exports have jumped in the last two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN JAMES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) CHARTS: Aiming High: In 2009, President Obama promised to double annual U.S. exports to $3.1 trillion by 2015. The pace of export growth may be slowing, putting the goal in doubt.
 Five-year change in U.S. exports: Exports have not doubled in a fiveyear period since the mid-1970s, when inflation was high. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRENDS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (79%); ASIA (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



908 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Hone Plan to Take On Obama

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- President Obama may be running against Congressional Republicans in his re-election campaign, but they intend to run right back against him.
At their annual retreat here, House Republicans outlined an agenda quite similar to the one that drove their first year as the House majority, saying they would pursue bills that would vigorously rework the Medicare program, dismantle regulations they find stifling to business and champion an oil pipeline that the White House has rejected.
''I've asked every member of every committee to look at the president's policies,'' said House Speaker John A. Boehner, ''and help the American people understand and help, frankly, other members of Congress understand the devastating impact of these policies on our economy.'' 
While several members said they had come to realize that they would probably not have a willing partner in Senate Democrats for their legislative efforts this year -- a fact that seemed to elude them for much of last year -- they said they would continue to showcase their policy preferences as a contrast to, and often rebuke of, the president, who has said he will spend the next year targeting them from his campaign bully pulpit.
Overhaul of the Medicare program remains a priority. ''Our point is -- fix it now, do it on our terms,'' said Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the architect of the House budget.
Republicans, undaunted by the payroll tax holiday debacle that hurt their conference last month, said that they were considering using the Keystone XL Pipeline as a chip in the next round of negotiations over the tax break, as part of their overall efforts to push back against White House policies this year.
''We are going to be looking at every option to keep this issue at the forefront,'' said Representative Fred Upton of Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and a member of the joint House-Senate negotiating committee tasked with coming up with a bill to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits through the rest of the year. ''Certainly that is within the scope of the conference,'' he said.
However, using Keystone as a bargaining chip in the negotiations to extend the payroll tax cut would probably not be fruitful; Democrats on the committee are likely to reject the idea out of hand, and Republicans will have to use legislation in their chamber to further push the matter.
On the matter of Medicare, Mr. Ryan said that Republicans would probably continue to pursue a plan that would offer subsidies for beneficiaries to purchase insurance as a possible alternative for some Medicare enrollees.
''We think our Medicare reforms have become more politically palatable,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There is emerging bipartisan consensus going forward about how to fix Medicare, but I can't tell you what our budget is going to be because we haven't written it yet.'' He added, ''We are not backing off on the kinds of reforms we've advocated.''
The Republican retreat, with its central focus on beating back Mr. Obama's attempts to demonize Congress as he campaigns for re-election, is a marked departure from the getaway in 2010, when Mr. Obama combatively addressed Republicans as their guest, a year before the party took control of the House.
Many members were infuriated by Mr. Boehner's unilateral agreement with the Senate on a short-term payroll tax deal last month, and the speaker used the retreat to try to rally members around his leadership, arguing that he is the quarterback, and that Republicans need to run the play he calls.
Democrats were quick to criticize the statements emanating from Baltimore. ''For one full year, the do-nothing, my-way-or-the-highway united Republican House has given Americans no jobs bills, a plan to end the Medicare guarantee and manufactured crises. In return for their unity, Americans have given them back the proud title of the worst Congress in history,'' said Nadeam A. Elshami, a spokesman for Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader.
While the goal of the retreat was to promote Republican unity, some members seemed concerned about their image. As one point, breathless and somewhat frazzled, Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California raced into a news filing center to share some of his ideas for tax-free stock ownership plans for employees, and other measures he hoped to get his colleagues to listen to. ''I think that working people need to know that Republicans are not just on the side of the boss,'' he said.
While Mr. Boehner said he hoped that some job-creating measures could be passed in a bipartisan manner this year, much of the talk from Republican leaders featured sharp criticism of Mr. Obama, and pointed to the president's planned trips to swing states in coming weeks as overtly political.
''I may have been born at night,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''but it wasn't last night.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan, who attended a party retreat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); BUDGETS (74%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (89%); FRED UPTON (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



909 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Prison Death Brings Outcry Against Cuba

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Human rights advocates and American officials condemned the Cuban government on Friday for continuing to limit political freedom, reacting to the death of an imprisoned Cuban dissident who had carried out a hunger strike to protest his sentence. 
The dissident, Wilman Villar Mendoza, 31, died Thursday after 50 days without food, according to relatives. He was at least the second political prisoner known to die of a hunger strike since President Raul Castro took over from his brother Fidel in 2006, highlighting what experts describe as the new Cuban model: cautious moves toward a more open economy, coupled with continued repression of dissent.
''Human rights conditions in Cuba remain poor,'' said William Ostick, a State Department spokesman. ''The Cuban government continues to limit fundamental freedoms, including freedoms of speech, including for members of the press, and of peaceful assembly.''
Cuba denies holding political prisoners and in a statement late Friday said that Mr. Villar ''was not a dissident nor was he on a hunger strike,'' saying he died of sepsis after being hospitalized.
Human rights advocates say there is no way to know how many government opponents remain in jail because independent investigators cannot visit. They acknowledge some progress. In 2010, Mr. Castro agreed to free 52 prisoners who had been arrested during a 2003 crackdown. The Cuban government also decided to release 2,900 inmates late last year, but human rights defenders on and off the island say dissidents were not released. The selective pardon itself led to protests, and after the pardons, another inmate -- who advocates said was not a political prisoner -- died of a hunger strike to protest his exclusion from the list.
Those on the island trying to lobby for greater freedom also say these releases have not affected patterns of state repression. For example, Mr. Villar Mendoza's wife, Maritza Pelegrino Cabrales, told Human Rights Watch that government officials had harassed her repeatedly for associating with the Ladies in White, a group of wives, mothers and daughters of political prisoners who often endure threats and assaults when they protest publicly in Havana. Ms. Pelegrino said state security officers threatened to take away her daughters, 7 and 5.
''We're all afraid,'' said a neighbor who answered Ms. Pelegrino's cellphone Friday because she had gone to her husband's funeral. ''Maritza doesn't know what's going to happen with her children. She's worried.''
Mr. Villar Mendoza was detained Nov. 2 after participating in what his wife described as a peaceful demonstration for political freedom and human rights. She said prison guards placed him in solitary confinement after he started his hunger strike on Nov. 25. The last time she was allowed to visit him was on Dec. 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (89%); PARDONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); SENTENCING (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); ARRESTS (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (97%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



910 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: For South Carolinians, No Escape From the Messages

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and SERGE F. KOVALESKI

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. -- Darlene Kleckley was at home recovering from knee surgery one recent afternoon when she heard the phone ring. It does that a lot these days.
When her answering machine clicked on, she heard Mitt Romney's voice greeting her husband.
''He said: 'Hi, William. This is Mitt,' '' recalled Ms. Kleckley, 65, a retired university administrator.
This struck her as odd for two reasons. First, her husband died in September. ''And besides,'' she added, ''no one called him William. Everybody called him Bill.''
In South Carolina, not even the dead can find sanctuary from the bombardment of political messages that has hit the state with a fury. 
And phone calls are not even the half of it. Beyond the traditional methods used to reach voters -- television and radio ads, direct mail and automated phone-dialing, known as robo-calling -- candidates competing for the Republican primary on Saturday have put their messages into e-mails, text messages, Web sites and Twitter feeds.
Click onto Dictionary.com or a local news site like TheState.com, and colorful ads from Mitt Romney and Ron Paul flash on your screen. Check your e-mail, and there could be a message from Rick Santorum or something much worse. Some Republicans received a fake press release purporting to contain an admission from Newt Gingrich that he pressured his former wife into having an abortion.
Even the morning commute isn't safe. For a brief time on Thursday, commuters on I-85 were caught in a four-mile traffic jam while drivers gawked at a hot-air balloon draped in Ron Paul banners.
Every four years, this small, bustling city nestled in the state's hilly northwest corner is a focus of Republican presidential candidates drawn by its large religious conservative population and its populous media market, the state's largest. But many residents said they could not ever recall being this overwhelmed.
''Oh, it's awful,'' sighed Tina Hampton, 59, an office administrator. Her mailbox is filled with glossy brochures from candidates and the ''super PACs'' that support them. Her television blares with sniping politicians in commercial breaks of her favorite shows. Her respite at work, an iPod Touch that plays soothing music through Pandora radio, was overtaken by Rick Perry ads. ''It's a scourge,'' she said.
''Last night, I was trying to watch 'American Idol.' I was like, I just want to watch Steven Tyler,'' Ms. Hampton said. ''I don't care that Newt has lied and that Santorum has lied and that Romney has lied, and that everybody is just a bunch of big, fat liars.''
She added: ''I'd really just like to see a coffee commercial. Seriously.''
Ms. Hampton sifted through her mail Thursday, having left it unchecked for two days this week. Upon retrieval, 12 pieces of political literature were waiting for her: four from Ron Paul, four from Mitt Romney, three from the pro-Romney super PAC, Restore Our Future, and one from a group called Strong America Now, which is supporting Mr. Gingrich. ''I have no idea what's in these things because they just go in the garbage,'' she said, pausing to glance at one of the Paul letters, which was written on letterhead that said ''From the Desk of Jedd Coburn.''
''Who is Jedd Coburn?'' Ms. Hampton groaned. (He worked for the National Right to Work Committee, an antiunion group.)
When Cory Ezzell arrived at his downtown law office on Tuesday, after a long holiday weekend, his voice mailbox was so full he thought he was facing a crisis.
But there was no emergency. Just eight separate pleas from politicians and their surrogates, most supporting Mr. Romney. One was from Senator John McCain of Arizona lauding ''my good friend Mitt Romney.'' Another was Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, saying that Mr. Romney ''will work tirelessly to stop labor crews from coming in and controlling your economy.''
One invited Mr. Ezzell to an event featuring Mr. Romney with the Nascar legend David Pearson. Ron Paul and Rick Santorum had left messages, too.
''Getting these calls makes my blood pressure shoot up,'' Mr. Ezzell, 31, said, adding that he plans to vote for Mr. Gingrich. ''They are a tremendous waste of my time.'' He said he still got three to four a day.
Though many voters question the wisdom of inundating them with phone calls, those who run campaigns believe such calls are effective. Contractors can dial thousands of lines at once for pennies a call. With the right demographic research, which is expensive, campaigns can zero in on certain areas where, for example, more socially conservative voters are likely to live.
Ben Leinster, 34, a lawyer in Greenville, said that he and his family had been receiving 10 to 15 automated calls at home, generally concentrated between 5 and 7 p.m. He said that he had erased about six dozen of them from his voice mail, and had probably listened to only one of every 10. But he acknowledged they were leaving an impression. ''At the end of the day, I think robo-calls are like negative ads in that everybody hates them, but they do work,'' he said. ''They do plant a seed in your head. They helped solidify my support for Mitt Romney.''
South Carolina is not alone in this surge. A 2010 survey by the Pew Research Center found that 60 percent of voters reported getting a recorded political call, up from 39 percent in 2008. Among Republicans, the rate was higher in 2010: 70 percent compared with 56 percent of Democrats.
Like other states, South Carolina restricts how automated calls can be made. The state attorney general's office has determined that such political calls are allowed as long as the recorded message is ''delivered to an answering machine and not to a live person.'' If someone answers, the robo-call should automatically disconnect. The calls are prohibited between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m.
Cellphones, which used to be a safe harbor from unsolicited calls, are becoming targets, too -- not just with calls but also with text messages. One Romney supporter said he received an anonymous text last week with a number to dial. He did, and heard what was apparently a recording of Mr. Romney speaking at a 1994 debate. ''I belief that abortion should be safe and legal in this country,'' the recording said -- not a message that the Romney campaign wants voters to hear.
There is one way to at least reduce the deluge. Mat Jordan, 40, a pharmacy technician from Roebuck, and his wife were so tired of calls from politicians as well as telemarketers after 2008 that they now have only cellphones. ''This time of year,'' Mr. Jordan said, ''We are not missing not having a land line at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TINA HAMPTON: An office administrator in Greenville weary of the barrage of political advertising accompanying her favorite television shows. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); POLITICS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); ABORTION (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); RICK PERRY (54%); RON PAUL (54%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (89%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



911 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Antipiracy Bills Delayed After an Online Firestorm

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional leaders on Friday indefinitely shelved two antipiracy bills that had rallied the Internet and rocked Capitol Hill, dealing a major defeat to the traditional media industry while emboldening a new breed of online political activists.
Using a medium that helped organize protests against the legislation, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, announced via Twitter that the vote would be delayed. But he indicated that the issue, which had been scheduled for a vote Tuesday, had not died.
''There's no reason that legitimate issues raised about PROTECT IP can't be resolved,'' he wrote, referring to the Senate bill by its shorthand name. ''Counterfeiting & piracy cost 1000s of #jobs yearly. Americans rightfully expect to be fairly compensated 4 their work. I'm optimistic that we can reach compromise on PROTECT IP in coming week.'' 
In the House, Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, called off plans to formally draft his version of the antipiracy bill next month.
After vowing two days ago to move forward, Mr. Smith said in a statement on Friday: ''The committee remains committed to finding a solution to the problem of online piracy that protects American intellectual property and innovation.'' But he added, ''The House Judiciary Committee will postpone consideration of the legislation until there is wider agreement on a solution.''
Speaker John A. Boehner, talking with reporters Friday in Baltimore, where House Republicans held their annual retreat, called the bill ''well meaning,'' but said it needed ''more consensus.''
Supporters of the shelved bills as well as opponents pushing an alternative backed by the Internet giants Google and Facebook said differences could be bridged. But privately, Congressional aides and lobbyists say the pressures of an election year make action this year unlikely. Lawmakers will not be eager to brave another firestorm incited by Google, Facebook, Twitter, Wikipedia and other popular Web sites.
Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and a key opponent of the bills, said lawmakers had collected more than 14 million names -- more than 10 million of them voters -- who contacted them to protest the once-obscure legislation.
''It's going to be a new day in the Senate,'' said Mr. Wyden, who is the co-author with Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, of an alternative bill that seeks to choke off money flows to Internet pirates. ''The way citizens communicate with their government is never going to be the same.''
Mr. Wyden spoke briefly to Senator Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who was the author of the shelved bill, and both men said they pledged to find a way forward.
But Mr. Leahy, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, made it clear that proponents of his bill, the Protect I.P. Act, felt burned by Internet companies that they said misled citizens into believing the bill would cripple the Internet. The opposition turned illegal on Thursday when the online hacker group Anonymous brought down the Department of Justice's Web site.
''Assuming everyone's telling the truth, that they want to stop the theft of property, that they want to stop endangering people with counterfeit goods, then we ought to be able to find common ground,'' Mr. Leahy said. ''I hope people, when they're dealing, will deal honestly with you.''
The Protect I.P. Act and its counterpart in the House, the Stop Online Piracy Act, had broad bipartisan support when they were drafted by Mr. Smith and Senator Leahy. The bills were pushed hard by the Hollywood studios, recording industry, book publishing world and United States Chamber of Commerce as antidotes to rampant piracy of American cultural wares by offshore Web sites.
But many Internet companies, including Google, Facebook, Twitter and Reddit, saw the bills as a threat, and said they would stifle creativity on the Internet while forcing search engines and social media to become police officers for the Department of Justice. Other outlets, such as Wikipedia, objected to any proposed laws that could crimp the free flow of information on the Internet.
The Internet giants rallied their troops to rise up against such Washington stalwarts as the Motion Picture Association of America and the Recording Industry Association of America. What had started as a nonpartisan issue began turning to Republican advantage, as Republicans led the flight away from the bill.
By Thursday night, senior Republican staff members were boasting that the remaining supporters of the bills were largely Democrats, even though members of both parties had helped draft them.
Mr. Leahy went along with Mr. Reid's decision to back off but made it clear that he was doing so reluctantly.
''More time will pass with jobs lost and economies hurt by foreign criminals who are stealing American intellectual property and selling it back to American consumers,'' he said in a statement.
''The day will come when the senators who forced this move will look back and realize they made a knee-jerk reaction to a monumental problem,'' he added. ''Somewhere in China today, in Russia today, and in many other countries that do not respect American intellectual property, criminals who do nothing but peddle in counterfeit products and stolen American content are smugly watching how the United States Senate decided it was not even worth debating how to stop the overseas criminals from draining our economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); WRITERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); COUNTERFEITING (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (78%); LAMAR SMITH (73%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



912 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: With Hours to Decide, Few Are Willing to Commit

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
BELTON, S.C. -- Heidi Trull does not usually allow customers to talk politics or religion at Grits and Groceries, her restaurant here in the farmland that defines the northwest corner of the state.
People's opinions are usually too strong. And a heated argument can ruin a good dish of Carolina shrimp and grits.
But Friday afternoon, less than 24 hours before the state's Republican presidential primary, her ban on political talk did not matter one bit. 
No one had found a candidate they liked enough to argue for.
From country restaurants like this one to suburban shopping malls in Spartanburg and espresso bars in Greenville, voters facing four options in the Republican primary seemed to shrug and say, ''I haven't decided.''
Polls, which have Newt Gingrich gaining ground on Mitt Romney while Ron Paul and Rick Santorum battle for third place, do not always reflect what is happening on the ground, particularly in a region that has emerged as a coveted electoral battleground.
Thursday's debate swung some undecided voters from one camp to another and back again. A relentless barrage of political ads only added to the confusion.
Thus, in a state known for its fickle, independent political nature, people appear to be waiting until they step into a voting both to decide.
''I said I was going to vote for Newt, but now I don't know,'' said Kathy Matasavage, 53, who moved here nine years ago and waits tables at Grits and Groceries. ''All of these ads and debates are just so negative. You think you have your mind made up, and then there is craziness and more craziness.''
Thursday's debate, which pivoted partly around demands that Mr. Romney release his tax returns and accusations by one of Mr. Gingrich's former wives that he had asked for an open marriage, had an effect.
Kim Raines, 35, who was shearing a schnauzer named Dickens at a pet grooming shop in Spartanburg, was all set to vote for Mr. Gingrich until she heard part of an interview with his second wife, Marianne Gingrich, that was shown Thursday after the debate.
''I'm a cheated-on woman, so Newt getting in that scandal was a big thing to me,'' she said. So now Ms. Raines, who has two children, is leaning toward Mr. Romney because he seems more of a leader.
Conversely, the interview and Mr. Gingrich's combative response to questions about his marital past pushed C. W. Harris, a life insurance salesman in Greenville, into the Gingrich camp. ''The more they attack Newt, the more I want to support him,'' he said.
The issue of Mr. Romney's wealth, how he got it and whether he should release his tax returns seemed to have less resonance with some voters.
At a small debate viewing party in Greer on Thursday night filled with people supporting different candidates, no one said that seeing Mr. Romney's tax returns would make a difference. Nor did they care that he made millions as head of the private equity firm Bain Capital, which his opponents claim ruined lives by closing companies.
''It doesn't bother me that he is wealthy,'' said Linda Tapp, 65, a retired medical office worker. ''That tells me he knows how to handle finances.''
To be sure, some voters know exactly what they want.
Patricia Seiber, a school secretary, will vote for Mr. Santorum. ''I have 5 sons and 17 grandchildren, and we are all for him,'' she said.
Sandra Sperry, who was buying toys for her grandchildren, is a Gingrich supporter all the way.
''He is a smart politician, and I want someone who can beat Obama,'' she said. ''It is going to take one to beat one.''
In South Carolina, the primaries are open, meaning registered Democrats can vote in the Republican primary on Saturday and still vote for their own party in the presidential election. Some more conservative Democrats and independents will be doing just that.
Janie Dillard, 63, is one of them. She calls herself a yellow-dog Democrat, but will vote for Mr. Romney on Saturday. ''He's as close as you can get to Obama on the Republican side,'' she said.
For some voters, it was coming down to an issue of character. But with not much more to go on than attack advertisements and news media reports, which some were skeptical of, voters found it a challenge to figure out which candidate had the best character.
''I'd like somebody who was moral, but you can't tell that from watching TV,'' said Carol Eubanks.
For others, morality was low on the list. Everyone, some said, had something they probably wished they had done better in their lives.
''I'm not electing a preacher or a Sunday school teacher,'' Mrs. Tapp said.
In dozens of interviews here this week, voters most frequently mentioned smaller government, a better economy and a tougher stand on immigration -- issues that are tied together in some minds.
South Carolina has one of the toughest anti-immigration laws in the country. The unemployment rate only recently dropped to 9.9 percent, fueled in part by a number of new manufacturing jobs in this and other parts of the state.
''We need to focus on our country more than anything else,'' said Robert Maples, 34, who works for a satellite dish company and has a 4-year-old son. ''We've got to close those borders and keep jobs here. We've got to fix us first.''
He has not decided who he is going to vote for, either. He ticks through the list, giving some candidates points for foreign policy, others points for leadership and still others for sincerity.
To him and plenty of others here, each seems to hold some appeal, but not enough to commit to.
''If you could mix them together, then maybe you'd have someone,'' said Kelly Burrell, 32, a single mother working at a cellphone cover kiosk in a Spartanburg mall. ''Like, if you had a cross between Newt and Ron Paul, maybe with a little Santorum thrown in, we'd be great.''
Ms. Burrell said she was, at least on Friday, leaning toward Mr. Romney as a kind of default.
''But,'' she said, ''I really don't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People at a debate-viewing party in Greer, S.C., on Thursday backed different candidates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (73%); RETAILERS (70%); MARRIAGE (67%); DOGS (61%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); PET CARE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RON PAUL (58%); RICK SANTORUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012



913 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Tallying Disasters and Gauging a Greenhouse Impact

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: An environmental scientist explains the challenges in efforts to gauge global warming through disaster patterns. 

 BODY:
I encourage you to read "Global Warming and Severe Weather: Is There a Link?" This excellent new Green Grok post is by Bill Chameides, the blogging dean of the Nicholas School for the Environment at Duke University. (Hat tip @KeithKloor.)
Chameides' outreach through the Web is commendable, and part of an exciting trend. At this year's Science Online conference, which is ending today, I met a host of academicians who, like Chameides, have dived enthusiastically into the "knowosphere."
His latest post builds on the heavily covered, and critiqued, tally of 2011 disasters from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the disaster research of Roger Pielke, Jr. of the University of Colorado and an excellent analysis by the indispensable Quirin Schiermeier in Nature.
Here's an excerpt: 
While tallying up the number of disasters in a given year may seem pretty straightforward, in practice it's not. Things can get complicated. For example: How to decide where to draw the line between a disaster and just a really bad event? With storms, for instance, a single person getting hit by lightning would be tragic but would hardly be categorized as a disaster. But what if 10 people were killed in a storm, or 100, or 500? At what point does something become a disaster?
To avoid the counting-threshold problem, analysts often turn to metrics that integrate across all events - for example, the total damage costs (or alternatively the total insured losses) that natural disasters impose on the insurance industry in a given year.
And through that lens, 2011 was an unmitigated disaster for disasters, the most expensive year on record with damages soaring past 2005's previous record of $220 billion to a total of about $380 billion. It was also the insurance industry's most expensive year on record for natural disasters, with total insured losses of $105 billion.
However, if global warming is your concern, it's important to note that severe weather was not the only or even the main culprit for 2011 - about two-thirds of the total damages and about half of the insured losses can be attributed to two non-weather-related disasters: New Zealand's February earthquake and Japan's earthquake and tsunami in April.
But counting dollars has its drawbacks too.
As we all know, things change - populations grow, people move, new buildings are constructed in different places. And these changes tend to increase total damages as well as make insurance companies more vulnerable to losses from disasters. For example, Americans' flocking to coastal communities has undoubtedly significantly increased our susceptibility to losses from hurricanes. This is a point that Roger Pielke has often made (see here and here), and it's one that a recent paper in by Fabian Barthel and Eric Neumayer of the London School of Economics appears to confirm.
Please read the full post and explore other output from the Nicholas
School blog (including this excellent summary of a recent meeting on shale gas extraction).
There's a relevant new modeling study by Kerry Emanuel of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology estimating when the growing global climate nudge from greenhouse gases could measurably show up in tallies of United States damages from Atlantic Ocean hurricanes. The earliest a perceptible "signal" might emerge is 40 years down the road by his analysis.
Read the section in Chameides' post on Ben Franklin and Falstaff (as in the Shakespeare character) for the policy implications of this kind of time scale.
Here's the abstract of Emanuel's paper, which is published in Weather, Climate and Society and relates to this recent paper (Pielke is one of three authors): "Emergence timescales for detection of anthropogenic climate change in U.S. tropical cyclone loss data": 
While many studies of the effects of global warming on hurricanes predict an increase in various metrics of Atlantic basin-wide activity, it is less clear that this signal will emerge from background noise in measures of hurricane damage, which depend largely on rare, high-intensity landfalling events and are thus highly volatile compared to basin-wide storm metrics. Using a recently developed hurricane synthesizer driven by large-scale meteorological variables derived from global climate models, 1000 artificial 100-yr time series of Atlantic hurricanes that make landfall along the U.S. Gulf and East Coasts are generated for four climate models and for current climate conditions as well as for the warmer climate of 100 yr hence under the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) emissions scenario A1b. These synthetic hurricanes damage a portfolio of insured property according to an aggregate wind-damage function; damage from flooding is not considered here. Assuming that the hurricane climate changes linearly with time, a 1000-member ensemble of time series of property damage was created. Three of the four climate models used produce increasing damage with time, with the global warming signal emerging on time scales of 40, 113, and 170 yr, respectively. It is pointed out, however, that probabilities of damage increase significantly well before such emergence time scales and it is shown that probability density distributions of aggregate damage become appreciably separated from those of the control climate on time scales as short as 25 yr. For the fourth climate model, damages decrease with time, but the signal is weak.

        
More on Energy and Climate Paths for California and Beyond
        
From the Fire Hose: Fukushima Examined; Extreme Weather Probed
        
On Warming and U.S. Hurricane Strikes
        
Tornadoes and Warming, from the Archives
        
Tornadoes and Natural Gas in the Greenhouse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (92%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); TSUNAMIS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); COASTAL AREAS (64%) Climate Change; disasters; Economics; Global Warming; Disasters and Emergencies; Drought; Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Weather; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; United States

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (91%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



914 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: The Most Important Job in America

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF


HIGHLIGHT: Readers post their comments on my column about the transformative power of teachers. 

 BODY:
My Sunday column returns to education, and the importance of teaching as a way to improve education outcomes. I think education is, in the long run, the most important challenge America faces and the one where we're in greatest difficulties. If we want to maintain economic competitiveness and chip away at poverty, we simply have to improve high school graduation rates and college attendance -- and that in turn will depend on an overhaul of the entire education system, starting with early childhood education.
My take is that all sides are at fault here. Republicans aren't willing to invest the money necessary and are wary of early childhood education, and Democrats are reluctant to push teacher unions harder to achieve more rigorous evaluation and greater readiness to remove weak teachers. I think we're slowly moving in that direction, but the progress is painfully slow.
So read the column -- the story of Olly Neal is simply amazing, and it was a pleasure to interview him -- and post your thoughts, please.

        
Reader Comments on My Teacher Column
        
Melinda Gates Answers Questions, Part II
        
China's Education System
        
Senator Jim DeMint and Morality
        
A New Approach to Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%) education; Olly Neal; teachers

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (54%); MELINDA GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



915 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: What We Give Up for Health Care

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL


HIGHLIGHT: If liberals care about middle-class salaries, public education and other state-funded services, they need to care about controlling health care costs as much as conservatives do. 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to health care, most liberals are committed above all to ensuring that every American has insurance. In their view, the greatest achievement of the health care reform act passed under President Obama is to finally erase the moral stain of the United States' being the only major developed country without universal coverage. But we also hold the questionable distinction of having the world's most expensive health care system - what about cost control? For many liberals, that just sounds like a cover for heartless conservatives who care only about cutting benefits and not about helping people in need.
But liberals are wrong to ignore costs. The more we spend on health care, the less we can spend on other things we value. If liberals care about middle-class salaries, public education and other state-funded services, then they need to care about controlling health care costs every bit as much as conservatives do.
Over the past 30 years, health care inflation has been a major reason average wages have remained stagnant. For employers, the cost of labor is total compensation - wages plus benefits. As the cost of benefits rises, wages tend not to rise, or to rise much more slowly. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as health care costs skyrocketed between 2000 and 2009, workers' total compensation increased by 1.3 percent per year, but workers' hourly wages alone increased by just 0.7 percent per year, significantly below the rate of inflation.
During those 30 years, the only sustained period when real hourly earnings increased was 1990 through 1998 - which coincided almost exactly with a period of unusually low increases in health care costs.
The middle and working classes are also hit by the rising price of health care when states are forced to cut other services to pay for it. Last year, Medicaid spending was estimated to account for nearly a quarter of total state spending - the largest portion of their budgets - and it's getting only more expensive. States really have just three ways to make ends meet: restrict Medicaid eligibility (which most have done already), raise taxes or reduce funding for other programs to pay more for health care.
And so states have turned to cutting funding for public education - the next biggest item in their budgets. In 2010, 29 states spent more on Medicaid than on primary and secondary education. By the middle of 2011, 18 states had cut funding for kindergarten through 12th-grade education, and 19 for higher education. It's no surprise that, in the last decade, the average in-state tuition at public four-year colleges rose 72 percent to over $8,000 per year, beyond what many students can afford. While health care costs do not account for all of this rise, they are a crucial factor.
But perhaps the simplest reason that costs should matter to liberals is this: as health care costs rise, so too do the number of uninsured Americans. According to an analysis I did a few years ago, for every 10 percent increase in the average cost of family health insurance premiums, the ranks of the uninsured (excluding seniors covered by Medicare) increased by 0.55 percent. When premiums doubled between 2000 and 2009, the percentage of Americans who were covered by employer-sponsored health insurance dropped to 61 percent from 69 percent.
This relationship between cost and coverage will change somewhat in 2014, when the provision of the health care reform act that provides coverage for the uninsured through Medicaid and subsidies kicks in. But even with subsidies, some Americans will find rising premiums unaffordable and will be forced to opt out and pay the penalty for not having insurance. Nor will the act do much to ease the strain on state budgets. An estimated 21.8 million more adults and children will be covered by Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program. While states will be responsible for only a small portion of these new enrollees, there will be added costs. And they will no longer be able to restrict eligibility to save money.
There is one final cause that is close to liberals' hearts and threatened by the projected rise in Medicare and Medicaid costs. The corresponding rise in the national debt will weaken America financially and diminish our voice on the global stage, allowing other countries less friendly to human rights and democracy to become more powerful.
There is an inevitable trade-off between rising health care costs and things liberals really care about, like access to college and good wages for working Americans. We cannot have it all. The health care reform act will help us save - mainly by changing how physicians and hospitals are paid and delivering better care to our most expensive patients. But more can be done: for starters, we could speed up the implementation of payment reform, stop Medicare payments for tests and treatments that provide no benefit and endorse competitive bidding for medical goods and services.
During the campaign season and into 2013 - a vital year for health care legislation - liberals must make the issue of cost control their own.

        
Billions Wasted on Billing
        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
Helping Where Help Is Wanted
        
It Costs More, but Is It Worth More?
        
For Medicare, We Must Cut Costs, Not Shift Them

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (72%); MEDICARE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); STATISTICS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (59%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Health insurance; Labor and Jobs; medicaid; Medicare; United States Economy; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; National Debt (US); Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Ezekiel J. Emanuel

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



916 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Nail-Biter

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, an overview of President Obama's weekly address and a look at the weekend happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
With Mitt Romney facing the biggest challengeto his presidential aspirations since he announced his candidacy last summer, his aides on Friday acknowledged what only recently had seemed unthinkable: He could lose the South Carolina primary. Facing intense attacks from all sides, renewed questions about whether he is conservative enough for the grass-roots of his party and the effects of his own stumbles, there was a real aura of apprehension coursing through his campaign, Jim Rutenberg and Ashley Parker report.

        
More than a jilted spouse, Marianne Gingrich serves as a window into the complicated psyche of a man who, those who know Newt Gingrich say, seems to need a woman by his side. Sheryl Gay Stolberg looks at how each of his three wives played a role in assisting and in her own way advancing his political career.

        
Rick Santorum used the time yielded to him by Newt Gingrich in the debate on Thursday not only to dismantle Mitt Romney's stance on abortion rights, but to attack the former speaker's commitment to the issue. The moment revealed Mr. Santorum's newfound urgencyto undercut Mr. Gingrich, Katharine Q. Seelye reports.

        
The Obama administration said Friday that most health insurance plans must cover contraceptives for women free of charge, and it rejected a broad exemption sought by the Roman Catholic Church for insurance provided to employees of Catholic hospitals, colleges and charities, Robert Pear reports. The rule takes a big step to remove cost as a barrier to birth control, a longtime goal of advocates for women's rights and experts on women's health.

        
At their annual retreat, House Republicans said they would pursue bills that would vigorously rework the Medicare program, dismantle regulations they find stifling to business and champion an oil pipeline that the White House has rejected, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama is making tourism a top priority in a new series of steps that he is planning to take without Congress. "We can't wait to seize this opportunity," he said. "I will continue to work with Congress, states and leaders in the private sector to find ways to move this country forward. But where they can't act or won't act, I will." His plan is to promote tourism and make it easier for foreigners to visit, because tourism, he said, is the No. 1 service the United States exports. "That's good for local businesses. That's good for local economies. And the more folks who visit America, the more Americans we get back to work," he told the nation. His tourism campaign would take steps that aim to make entry into America more hassle-free for international voyagers.
Happenings in Washington

        
House Republicans will continue their retreat over the weekend in Baltimore.
        
Opponents of abortion will warm up for the 39thannual March of Life on Monday with a rally on Sunday afternoon in front of the White House.

        
The Early Word: Reformer to Insider
        
The Early Word: Sticking With It
        
The Early Word: Romney Rising
        
The Early Word: Replaced
        
The Early Word: Rivals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (88%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); RELIGION (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); TOURISM (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%); ABORTION (67%); MEDICARE (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); CONTRACEPTION (65%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICK SANTORUM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



917 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Romney Urges Gingrich Disclosure on Freddie Mac

BYLINE: ASHELY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Under scrutiny for his taxes, Mitt Romney assails Newt Gingrich on his consulting. 

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. - As South Carolina residents began voting Saturday morning, Mitt Romney stopped to thank supporters and volunteers at his campaign office here, and he called on Newt Gingrich to release the details of his contract with Freddie Mac.
"I'd like to see what the report was that he provided to Freddie Mac, I'd like to see what he advised," Mr. Romney said, as he worked a rope line. "He said he was an historian and just provided historical information, then he said he told them what they were doing was somehow not going to work. I'd like to see the report."
He added: "He also said that he was one of the authors of the Reagan revolution economically and created these jobs. Now that we've looked at the Reagan diaries and seen he's mentioned only once and in a way where Reagan said he was wrong, I'd like to see what he actually told Freddie Mac. Don't ya think we ought to see it? This is a big issue. We've got a Washington insider talking about Freddie Mac, let's see what his report was to Freddie Mac, what he said to them, what advice he gave them."
Mr. Gingrich has said he did not do any lobbying for Freddie Mac, the mortgage giant that paid him more than $1 million.
Mr. Romney, whose campaign had been hesitant about committing him to yet another debate in a long series that is set to hit number 17 on Monday, also said that he would participate in Monday night's debate in Tampa, Fla. (His senior strategist confirmed that Mr. Romney would attend both Florida debates this week. Florida holds its primary Jan. 31).
Since landing in South Carolina over a week ago, Mr. Romney has watched his commanding lead in the polls slip away as Mr. Gingrich, buoyed by a string of strong debate performances, has surged past him. His usually disciplined and streamlined advance team has seemed more disorganized than usual, and in recent days, Mr. Romney's advisers began publicly trying to tamp down expectations and preparing for a potential loss here. 
Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, who has endorsed Mr. Romney and spent the week campaigning with him throughout the state, said that Mr. Romney's falling fortunes here were simply part of "the roller coaster of what's been this entire election."
"The rocky part of things comes with debates, it comes with ads, it comes with people saying things, it comes with that back and forth, that's what an election is," Ms. Haley said during a brief news conference outside Mr. Romney's campaign office. "What I can tell you is: I'm going into today feeling very, very good."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (70%) Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt; Endorsements; Presidential Election of 2012; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Florida; Nevada; South Carolina; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; In South Carolina

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)

TICKER: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); NIKKI HALEY (79%) Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida; Nevada; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



918 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the South Carolina Exit Polls

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The exit polls indicate late deciders settled on Newt Gingrich, who voters saw as the most likely to beat President Obama. 

 BODY:
8:06 p.m. | Updated 
Did Romney's Faith Matter?
One of the biggest questions for Mitt Romney has been the impact of his Mormon faith in a heavily evangelical state like South Carolina.
Voters were not asked about that explicitly in exit polls, but among those who came to vote looking for someone who shared their religious beliefs, Mr. Romney did not do well.
He received only one-fifth of the vote of evangelicals, and only one-tenth of the vote among those evangelical voters who said that sharing a candidate's religious beliefs mattered to them a great deal.
Unfortunately for Mr. Romney, the electorate that turned out on Saturday was heavily populated by religious voters.
Nearly two-thirds of the voters were evangelical or born-again Christians - slightly more than in 2008. And these voters came to the polls looking for a candidate who shared their religious beliefs. Three-quarters of evangelicals said that it mattered to them that a candidate share their religious beliefs.
In stark contrast, only around one-quarter of non-evangelicals said a candidate's sharing their beliefs mattered to them, while two in ten said it did not matter much to them, and nearly half said that it mattered "not at all."
Mr. Romney confronted questions about his Mormon faith directly in 2007, giving a speech in December of that year as he made his first bid for the White House.
"Some believe that such a confession of my faith will sink my candidacy," he said at the time. "If they are right, so be it. But I think they underestimate the American people. Americans do not respect believers of convenience. Americans tire of those who would jettison their beliefs, even to gain the world."
Mr. Romney did not deliver a similar speech this year. His advisers dismissed questions about his faith, saying they did not believe it would be a big factor in the race.

Focus on Electability
Newt Gingrich has spent most of the last 10 days arguing that he will offer the best contrast with President Obama -- and be best able to beat him -- in the fall.
South Carolina voters appear to agree.
Of those who think beating Mr. Obama is the most important candidate quality, Mr. Gingrich wins nearly half of the votes, the most of any of the Republican candidates.
And voters in South Carolina were more likely than voters in New Hampshire to say that beating Mr. Obama was the most important quality in a Republican candidate.
Mr. Romney and his allies have also been making the case for electability, arguing that Mr. Romney -- not Mr. Gingrich -- would be a better challenger to the incumbent.
But at least in South Carolina, it looks as if more voters agreed with Mr. Gingrich. 

Job Growth vs. Government Spending

In a state with a strong Tea Party presence, voters in South Carolina are divided over job growth versus government spending, according to early exit poll results.
All of the Republican candidates for president have argued for both deficit cutting and job programs. But a tilt in favor of deficit cutting might favor Mr. Paul, who has made that the central issue of his campaign.
A majority of voters said cutting the budget deficit, even if that limits job growth, should be a higher priority for the next president. About 4 in 10 said creating jobs should be a higher priority for the next president, even it that meant a higher budget deficit.
Whom to Blame for Negativity
Newt Gingrich came into the South Carolina primary complaining about the barrage of negative ads against him, especially in Iowa.
But a "super PAC" backing Mr. Gingrich spent more than $1 million to air negative attacks about Mr. Romney. They competed with a pro-Romney super PAC that also spent millions of dollars, and negative ads from the other candidates.
And then there were the two debates this week, during which the candidates themselves exchanged some of the sharpest language of the campaign so far.
All of that appears to have left voters split over whom to blame for the negativity.
In preliminary poll results, about a quarter said Mr. Gingrich ran the most unfair campaign, and about 3 in 10 said Mr. Romney did.
Economy an Important Factor
Today's primary is playing out against a bleaker economic backdrop than those of the last two contests.
South Carolina has an unemployment rate of 9.9 percent, and many voters are personally affected, according to early exit poll results. 
About a third of voters said someone in their household had lost a job or been laid off in the last three years. Two-thirds of voters said their families were holding steady financially. 
About one in five voters said they were falling behind financially, according to the exit polls. And most of the voters are negative about the economic outlook. About 8 in 10 voters said they were very worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years.
Gingrich Surge Convinces Late Deciders
Mr. Gingrich's surge in South Carolina last week came at the best possible time, according to preliminary exit poll results this afternoon -- just as voters were making up their minds.
The exit polls show that about one half of South Carolina voters in today's primary made up their minds within the last few days, just as Mr. Gingrich was gaining and Mr. Romney was stumbling over questions about his wealth and taxes.
Only about three in ten made up their minds a month ago or earlier, when Mr. Romney was polling well ahead in the field. The results suggest that the contest in the Palmetto State was fluid right up until the very end. In 2008, only about a third of voters were late deciders.
For Mr. Gingrich, that uncertainty among voters came as his performances in the debates appeared to impress many voters
For nearly two-thirds them, the recent debates were an important factor in their decision, with about one in ten saying it was the most important factor.
South Carolina Stays True to Conservative Reputation
South Carolina has a reputation for having a more conservative, more religious electorate. And early exit polls suggest that has played out today.
The state's Republican primary electorate looks very similar to the one that turned out in 2008. It is nearly unanimously white, roughly three-fourths are 45 or older, and just under half are college graduates.
Mr. Gingrich and Rick Santorum have both targeted Christian and evangelical voters in their attempt to stop Mr. Romney's march toward the nomination. It appears that population has turned out to vote.
This year is seeing slightly more evangelical Christians at the polls -- over six in ten (nearly two-thirds) are evangelical or born-again Christians, compared to an exact 60 percent in 2008.
The Tea Party also enjoys substantial support among today's Republican primary voters. Two-thirds of today's voters said they support the Tea Party (similar to the 66 percent who said the same in New Hampshire). 
Not surprisingly, among such a crowd Gov. Nikki Haley is viewed positively. Nearly two-thirds of today's primary voters approve of the job Ms. Haley is doing as governor.
But this year's electorate in South Carolina is much more independent than 2008: just over one quarter today are calling themselves "independent" or "other," compared to only 18 percent who did so in 2008.
This year's party numbers look much more like 2000 and 1996 in terms of independents. So far fewer than one in five voters call themselves Democratic. This is similar to 2008 when 2 percent were Democrats.

        
Live Blog: South Carolina Primary
        
What to Watch in South Carolina
        
Romney Turns His Attention Away From Gingrich and Toward Obama
        
Gingrich Gains on Romney in Final South Carolina Polls
        
Four Years Ago, Romney's Wealth Was Not an Issue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%) exit poll; South Carolina; South Carolina primary; Gingrich, Newt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Voting and Voters; In South Carolina

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



919 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Once Institutional, Now Exclusive

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
THERE have been times in New York's history, in response to economic downturns, when large apartments have been split up into smaller units. This is not one of those times.
At 607 Hudson Street in the West Village, a red brick building that was once the Village Nursing Home is being converted to condominiums by Flank, a design and development company in Chelsea. Not long ago, 607 Hudson housed some 200 residents, but soon it will be just 10 apartments, each with 3,200 to 9,600 square feet.
And at 18 Gramercy Park South, where for more than 40 years the Parkside Evangeline Residence provided affordable housing for women, what had been a 300-bedroom building is being converted into 17 condos, each of 4,500 square feet or more. 
The creation of a small number of luxury units from buildings that once housed multitudes may seem incongruous, but developers say the decision to build large apartments is driven by the market. Indeed, there are many indications that the demand for super-high-end apartments is strong. In Manhattan below 34th Street, 27 condos of $5 million to $10 million sold in the fourth quarter of 2011, a 50 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2010, according to Sofia Song, the vice president for research at Streeteasy.com.
Mick Walsdorf, a partner at Flank, said that the dimensions of the former nursing home, with three street frontages and four exposures, were conducive to sprawling units, as was the location, in one of the most picturesque parts of the West Village. (Recently, a penthouse in the Superior Ink building, a few blocks away, sold for $31.5 million.) He said that, for the most part, buyers looking for a lot of space in the Village ''have had to buy town houses, and the town house market has been incredibly tight.''
Mr. Walsdorf said that when Flank began selling condos at 385 West 12th Street, a building completed last year, buyers were interested in combining the smallish units, and ''we hadn't really allowed for that possibility in the layouts.'' This time the firm decided to build large units and stuck to it, even after the financial collapse of 2008. (VillageCare, which operated the nursing home, agreed to sell the building in 2007 but was unable to move out until 2009.)
The conversion of public or institutional buildings into upper-class housing has a long history in New York. The former police headquarters at 240 Centre Street is a condo building, as are the former Y.M.C.A. on West 23rd Street and several former school buildings around the city. The onetime New York Lying-In Hospital, at 305 Second Avenue, is the Rutherford Place condos.
To housing advocates, those conversions represent a victory for the wealthy. Jerilyn Perine, the executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, an advocacy group, said it was important that the city adopt regulations ''so that denser housing, particularly for singles, has a fighting chance in the market.'' She added, ''It's great to have people with a lot of money living here -- we need their taxes and spending power -- but the loss of density is tragic, especially where mass transit access is so great.''
But at least in the case of the Village Nursing Home, the rich will not be the only beneficiaries. A few years ago, residents there were crammed into outdated rooms that averaged less than 300 square feet per person (current regulations require at least 500). VillageCare was able to build a more modern facility, the VillageCare Rehabilitation and Nursing Center at 214 West Houston Street, using money from the sale of the Hudson Street building. A spokesman for VillageCare, Lou Ganim, said residents remaining in the Village Nursing Home at the time it was sold were transferred to the new facility.
Indeed, sometimes preservation advocates look to condo developers as white knights. Since the Bialystoker Center for Nursing and Rehabilitation on East Broadway closed last year, Laurie Tobias Cohen, the executive director of the Lower East Side Jewish Conservancy, has been ''extremely eager'' for a developer to buy the historic building and convert it to co-ops or condos. The closing of the nursing home was a great loss, she said; the goal now is to prevent the demolition, or further deterioration, of the building. ''What we don't want,'' she said, ''is to lose any more of the built historic fabric.''
The Salvation Army agreed to sell the Parkside Evangeline Residence in 2007. Maj. Evan Hickman of the Greater New York Division of the Salvation Army said that the organization had not yet received the full purchase price for the building, which the buyers are paying off over time. He added that ''when we receive all the funding we are certainly going to put it toward our other residences and meeting the various needs of New Yorkers in this difficult time.''
The team behind the building's renaissance -- which includes the developer William Lie Zeckendorf and the architect Robert A. M. Stern -- also built 15 Central Park West. Mr. Zeckendorf did not return phone calls about the project.
In some ways big, expensive units are an easier sell. High-end buyers typically don't need mortgages, eliminating the hassles and uncertainty of a tight credit market.
Joseph A. McMillan Jr., the chief executive of DDG Partners, which developed 41 Bond Street, said the building sold without a single mortgage contingency -- the provision in a contract that allows the buyer to drop out if financing isn't available. Mr. Walsdorf of Flank said he did not expect buyers at 607 Hudson Street (which is being named the Abingdon) to require mortgage contingencies, either.
And what developer wouldn't rather deal with 10 buyers who don't need mortgages than dozens of buyers who do?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 10 CONDOS: A Hudson Street nursing home is soon to be the Abingdon. (RE1)
 17 NEW CONDOS: For years, 18 Gramercy Park South housed the Parkside Evangeline Residence, run by the Salvation Army. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HISTORY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



920 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Talk This Way

BYLINE: By JOHN McWHORTER. 
John McWhorter's latest book is ''What Language Is (and What It Isn't and What It Could Be).''

 BODY:
SPEAKING AMERICAN
A History of English in the United States
By Richard W. Bailey
207 pp. Oxford University Press. $27.95.
There has always been disagreement on these American shores as to just what the ''best'' English is. The status of Parisian French or Tuscan Italian has long been unassailable. Yet in the early 1940s, fusty Chicagoans were writing to The Chicago Tribune declaring Midwestern speech America's ''purest,'' while New York radio announcers were speaking in plummy Londonesque, complete with rolled r's. Down in Charleston, S.C., the elite's sense of the best English involved peculiar archaisms like ''cam'' for ''calm'' and ''gyardin'' for ''garden.''
In ''Speaking American,'' a history of American English, Richard W. Bailey argues that geography is largely behind our fluid evaluations of what constitutes ''proper'' English. Early Americans were often moving westward, and the East Coast, unlike European cities, birthed no dominant urban standard. The story of American English is one of eternal rises and falls in reputation, and Bailey, the author of several books on English, traces our assorted ways of speaking across the country, concentrating on a different area for each 50-year period, starting in Chesapeake Bay and ending in Los Angeles. 
We are struck by the oddness of speech in earlier America. A Bostonian visiting Philadelphia in 1818 noted that his burgherly hostess casually pronounced ''dictionary'' as ''disconary'' and ''again'' as ''agin.'' William Cullen Bryant of Massachusetts, visiting New York City around 1820, wrote not about the ''New Yawkese'' we would expect, but about locutions, now vanished, like ''sich'' for ''such'' and ''guv'' for ''gave.'' Even some aspects of older writing might throw us. Perusing The Chicago Tribune of the 1930s, we would surely marvel at spellings like ''crum,'' ''heven'' and ''iland,'' which the paper included in its house style in the ultimately futile hope of streamlining English's spelling system.
A challenge for a book like Bailey's, however, is the sparseness of evidence on earlier forms of American English. The human voice was unrecorded before the late 19th century, and until the late 20th recordings of casual speech, especially of ordinary people, were rare. Meanwhile, written evidence of local, as opposed to standard, language has tended to be cursory and of shaky accuracy.
For example, the story of New York speech, despite the rich documentation of the city over all, is frustratingly dim. On the one hand, an 1853 observer identified New York's English as ''purer'' than that found in most other places. Yet at the same time chronicles of street life were describing a jolly vernacular that has given us words like ''bus,'' ''tramp'' and ''whiff.'' Perhaps that 1853 observer was referring only to the speech of the better-/off. But then just 16 years later, a novel describes a lad of prosperous upbringing as having a ''strong New York accent,'' while a book of 1856 warning against ''grammatical embarrassment'' identifies ''voiolent'' and ''afeard'' as pronunciations even upwardly mobile New Yorkers were given to. So what was that about ''pure''?
Possibly as a way of compensating for the vagaries and skimpiness of the available evidence, Bailey devotes much of his story to the languages English has shared America with. It is indeed surprising how tolerant early Americans were of linguistic diversity. In 1903 one University of Chicago scholar wrote proudly that his city was host to 125,000 speakers of Polish, 100,000 of Swedish, 90,000 of Czech, 50,000 of Norwegian, 35,000 of Dutch, and 20,000 of Danish.
What earlier Americans considered more dangerous to the social fabric than diversity were perceived abuses within English itself. Prosecutable hate speech in 17th-century Massachusetts included calling people ''dogs,'' ''rogues'' and even ''queens'' (though the last referred to prostitution); magistrates took serious umbrage at being labeled ''poopes'' (''dolts''). Only later did xenophobic attitudes toward other languages come to prevail, sometimes with startling result. In the early years of the 20th century, California laws against fellatio and cunnilingus were vacated on the grounds that since the words were absent from dictionaries, they were not English and thus violations of the requirement that statutes be written in English.
Ultimately, however, issues like this take up too much space in a book supposedly about the development of English itself. Much of the chapter on Philadelphia is about the city's use of German in the 18th century. It's interesting to learn that Benjamin Franklin was as irritated about the prevalence of German as many today are about that of Spanish, but the chapter is concerned less with language than straight history -- and the history of a language that, after all, isn't English. In the Chicago chapter, Bailey mentions the dialect literature of Finley Peter Dunne and George Ade but gives us barely a look at what was in it, despite the fact that these were invaluable glimpses of otherwise rarely recorded speech.
Especially unsatisfying is how little we learn about the development of Southern English and its synergistic relationship with black English. Bailey gives a hint of the lay of the land in an impolite but indicative remark about Southern child rearing, made by a British traveler in 1746: ''They suffer them too much to prowl amongst the young Negroes, which insensibly causes them to imbibe their Manners and broken Speech.'' In fact, Southern English and the old plantation economy overlap almost perfectly: white and black Southerners taught one another how to talk. There is now a literature on the subject, barely described in the book.
On black English, Bailey is also too uncritical of a 1962 survey that documented black Chicagoans as talking like their white neighbors except for scattered vowel differences (as in ''pin'' for ''pen''). People speak differently for interviewers than they do among themselves, and modern linguists have techniques for eliciting people's casual language that did not exist in 1962. Surely the rich and distinct -- and by no means ''broken'' -- English of today's black people in Chicago did not arise only in the 1970s.
Elsewhere, Bailey ventures peculiar conclusions that may be traceable to his having died last year, before he had the chance to polish his text. (The book's editors say they have elected to leave untouched some cases of ''potential ambiguity.'') If, as Bailey notes, only a handful of New Orleans's expressions reach beyond Arkansas, then exactly how was it that New Orleans was nationally influential as the place ''where the great cleansing of American English took place''?
And was 17th-century America really ''unlike almost any other community in the world'' because it was ''a cluster of various ways of speaking''? This judgment would seem to neglect the dozens of colonized regions worldwide at the time, when legions of new languages and dialects had already developed and were continuing to evolve. Of the many ways America has been unique, the sheer existence of roiling linguistic diversity has not been one of them.
The history of American English has been presented in more detailed and precise fashion elsewhere -- by J. L. Dillard, and even, for the 19th century, by Bailey himself, in his under/read /''Nineteenth-Century English.'' Still, his handy tour is useful in imprinting a lesson sadly obscure to too many: as Bailey puts it, ''Those who seek stability in English seldom find it; those who wish for uniformity become laughingstocks.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY IAN ADELMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); WRITERS (76%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

TITLE: Speaking American: A History of English in the United States (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



921 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TOMBSTONE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning Up the Old West the Modern Way

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
TOMBSTONE, Ariz. -- It is fair to say that well before the Earp brothers shot three cowboys in a lot behind the O.K. Corral, this city had a trash problem. Mule and horse droppings were everywhere. The stench of leather being tanned, charcoal burning and ore being dug out of the earth burned the nostrils. Garbage piled high in the muddy streets.
This may explain why Ordinance 6, which in 1881 created a Board of Health and outlined how to dispose of animal carcasses, rotting food and dead bodies, precedes Ordinance 9, which famously banned carrying guns in the city. After all, residents were more likely to die of disease than gunfire back then. 
And still, more than 130 years later, the city continues to wrestle with its refuse.
Tombstone has had a tough time keeping up with the trash created by the streams of tourists who come to see the shootouts, saloons and graveyards. Trash pickup slows when one of the city's two-person garbage crew calls in sick, or if a truck has to be sent to Phoenix, more than 170 miles away, for repairs.
Declines in tourism and in income from the state's revenue-sharing program have hit the city's $3.5 million annual budget. Last July, a fire nearly wiped out the city's water supply infrastructure, which will force Tombstone to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to repair its aqueducts.
So last week, Tombstone started paying Waste Management, a private hauler, to collect its trash and expand its recycling program. The city still will collect money from each household for trash collection, but will turn it over to Waste Management instead of keeping it.
The company will buy the city's two trucks, one of which is for backup, enabling the city to retire its $180,000 in debt on them. The city will no longer have to worry about fixing trucks or buying garbage cans, and the wooden barrels that doubled as garbage cans on historic Allen Street will be replaced with solar-powered compactors that will wirelessly alert the city when they are full.
''In this trickle-down economy, we're on the bottom,'' said Mayor Jack Henderson. ''We looked at everything, and one of the things we didn't do well was garbage. This is a big decision for our little town.''
Tombstone is only the latest city to outsource services to save money. Waste Management works with dozens of other cities nationally, according to Rodney Glassman, the director of public sector solutions for the company in Arizona and New Mexico. Cities have also hired outsiders to provide police protection, emergency medical care and water and sewage services.
But Tombstone, with a population of 1,500, is unusual because it creates a disproportionate amount of trash. The city welcomes at least 200,000 tourists a year. During the Helldorado festival or Wyatt Earp Days, three times as much garbage as usual is generated. Visitors have been surprised that they cannot recycle soda cans and plastic bottles.
Yet in a city that lives off its past, change can come slowly. Tombstone's roughly 580 households will continue to pay $17 a month for curbside pickup, though not recycling, which must be done at centrally located depots. Waste Management will take the recycled materials from the depots and pay the city for the materials, which it will later sell.
But some residents fear that Waste Management will raise its rates. Each home will now have two cans for garbage instead of one, but garbage will be collected only once a week instead of twice, leading others to worry that the summer heat will turn their trash into a stinking mess.
Retirees fret that the new drivers will not help them carry their trash cans to the curb.
''A lot of people are nervous,'' said Carla Molina, who drove the city's garbage truck for the past dozen years and will now focus on recycling, because the city will have to prepare the materials for recycling by Waste Management. ''I try to be positive, but some people don't understand.''
Still, the city known as The Town Too Tough to Die has survived by being practical. After World War I, when residents wanted to turn Tombstone into a tourist spot, they cleaned up Boothill Graveyard, which had been used as a dump. Over the years, the city outsourced its phone, gas and electric service and closed its landfill.
Nancy Sosa, the city archivist, recalled that when she was a child growing up in this high desert 35 miles from the Mexican border, city workers picked up trash by hand and used a pickup truck to supplement the garbage truck.
''We're not stuck in 1881,'' she said while showing off the city's Code of Ordinances, which she cleaned after retrieving it from the basement of the old city hall. More than ''130 years later, there are others who can do garbage pickup so we can focus on other things.''
Residents along historic Allen Street said they understood why the city hired a private hauler, though they were less clear that Waste Management, in consultation with the city, could raise its fees to offset increases in inflation, fuel and landfill costs. Increased recycling, though, may cover any price increases, said George Barnes, the city manager. Tombstone now receives about $15,000 a year for its cardboard, a figure that is likely to double now that plastic, aluminum and newsprint will be collected as well. This is equal to one city worker's salary. ''Frankly, we were amateurs in the garbage business for a long time,'' Mr. Barnes said over lunch at the Crystal Palace Saloon. ''People have been saying, 'Gee, when are we going to join the next century?' ''
Barbara Highfield, the owner of Tombstone Real Estate, is one of those people. Since moving here from Oregon 18 years ago, she has collected cans and bottles in her car, hoping to find a place to recycle them. Guiltily, she sometimes threw them in with the trash. ''When relatives would come from Oregon, they were appalled by my bad behavior,'' she said. ''I'll be glad to be able to recycle again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Jack Henderson of Tombstone, Ariz., where wooden barrels that have served as garbage cans downtown are being replaced by solar-powered compactors.
 Tombstone outsourced trash pickup to a private company, whose trucks began picking up residents' garbage last week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Streams of tourists generate a lot of garbage in Tombstone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (86%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); CEMETERIES (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); MAYORS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); OUTSOURCING (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



922 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: The New Student Activism

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY. 
Cara Buckley is a metropolitan reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
ASHLEY WARD, an aspiring idealist with waning faith in the world, was standing in the newsroom of her college paper at Humboldt State University in Northern California when a fellow student rushed in with startling news.
Three thousand miles due east, on a tiny patch of Lower Manhattan, people were camping out to protest Wall Street, decrying its stranglehold on politics and continuing enrichment as the economy flatlined. It was the first that Ms. Ward, then a senior, had heard of Occupy Wall Street, and as she learned more about it, her heart glowed. ''I've been waiting for something to happen for years,'' she said. ''I was personally starting to get afraid that something like this wouldn't happen in my lifetime.''
She and a friend resolved to bring Occupy to their campus. They printed fliers, set up a Web site and blasted out e-mails. They told as many people as they could about their action plan. On Oct. 1, they held a sprawling, consensus-style meeting on campus, a version of the general assemblies being held in Zuccotti Park in New York, and set up tents. And thus was born one of the first Occupy Wall Street college protests. 
Occupy protests rapidly sprouted at other campuses: hundreds nationwide currently have or had some sort of Occupy-related activity going on. Mirroring the broader movement, students have taken aim at widening income disparities and the cozy symbiosis between Washington and Wall Street. But the college occupiers have also embraced a panoply of causes, localizing and personalizing their protests in a way that has lent an immediacy and urgency to their outcries.
At Tufts, students have used the attention garnered by Occupy to advance a decades-long push for an Africana studies department. At Occupy Pocatello, Idaho State University students are condemning Idaho's high foreclosure rate from a handful of pup tents as well as more wind-resistant cardboard boxes. At Yale, a traditional feeder school for investment banks and hedge funds, students noisily protested a Morgan Stanley information session in the fall. Recruiting visits to Harvard, Princeton and Cornell have been similarly disrupted.
''I'm not sure it would've happened if Occupy Wall Street wouldn't have started,'' said Marina Keegan, of the Morgan Stanley protest at Yale, where she is a senior. ''Definitely people are starting to think more critically about their choices after graduation and how they affect not just themselves, but the world.''
All of which sets Occupy-related student protests apart from much of the campus activism that has come before. A good chunk of student protest has focused on single issues: nukes in the '70s, apartheid and Contras in the '80s, sweatshops in the '90s.
Many of today's new graduates find themselves heavily indebted, and to the same institutions that received multibillion-dollar bailouts in the financial crash. Median income is stagnant. Their public universities are underfinanced, and class sizes growing. College activists have linked these issues to broad critiques of the financial-political complex.
''What you have with the Occupy movement is a criticism of global capitalism and the American financial system, but also a critique of policing on campus, tuition policy, the way universities are run,'' said Angus Johnston, a historian who teaches at the City University of New York. ''That is certainly resonant with the movements of the '60s, because student activism of the 1960s connected up major national and global issues and campus policy.''
While students as recently as 2009 were taking over campus buildings -- across California and in New York, at the New School -- Occupy has drawn a wider swath. Previously apolitical students have been drawn by personal woes -- their parents' vanishing 401(k)'s, their fears of the job market. ''This has been a catalyst for getting more students involved,'' said Anne Wolfe, 20, a junior at Tufts who is working with protesters at Boston University and camped out at Occupy Boston.
''We're able to get out of our own college bubble,'' she said.
At Humboldt, students set their tents back up after winter break. The campus has embraced the protests: the Associated Students, a council representing students, gave their full endorsement of the occupiers. Ms. Ward said communitywide Occupy meetings were being held indoors, and expects the core people to remain involved for the long haul. But she also expects attendance to wane. ''We have a generation that believes instant gratification is the only form of gratification,'' Ms. Ward said. ''This is something that's going to take a long time.''
As with Occupy Wall Street itself, it remains to be seen whether protests will last. Some stalwarts kept an occupation going during winter break -- at Illinois State University, Normal, seven large tents. But most college camps -- potent icons of the protest -- were dismantled near semester's end. One venture, the Occupy Student Debt Campaign, is foundering: signees vowed not to repay loans after one million people had signed, but two months in, just 3,000 debtors had taken the pledge.
''I'm hopeful but I have no illusions,'' said Stephen A. Marglin, an economics professor at Harvard who spoke at an Occupy Harvard teach-in last month. ''It's not like I haven't seen these things blaze out before.''
At Harvard, resentment had been building against the campus occupiers, who had erected about 30 tents in the fall. Citing safety concerns, the administration had taken the rare step of blocking access to Harvard Yard to anyone without Harvard identification, and the inconvenience of the checkpoint and restrictions on guests had curdled feelings. In mid-December, Occupy Harvard removed its tents to move into ''a new phase of activism.'' As classes resume on Jan. 23, students are planning teach-ins and outreach to keep alive what they now call ''Occupy Harvard 2.0.''
''With OH 2.0, we can focus on specific actions and protests instead of using energy toward sustaining an unpopular occupation,'' said Gabriel Bayard, a freshman who helped spearhead a walkout in November on an economics class taught by Greg Mankiw, who had been an economic adviser to George W. Bush.
Campus protests benefit from their setting -- students can zip into their dorms for food, showers and restrooms. But some administrators have had to grapple with the safety and cleanliness issue while allowing for the cherished academic tenet of freedom of expression.
Seattle Central Community Colleges found itself hosting not just protesting students but also Occupy Seattle campers who had been rousted from a downtown park. The protesters soon settled on a campus plaza in some 70 tents. At first, administrators adopted a wait-and-see attitude. ''Economic equity is sort of our mission,'' said Jill Wakefield, the chancellor. ''I've been at community colleges for 35 years. Nowhere did it prepare me to deal with 100 campers at one of our colleges.''
The problems that had riddled urban encampments found their way to the college site. Garbage accumulated. Discarded syringes were spotted and marijuana smoke wafted, causing a day care center that abutted the plaza to stop allowing children to play outside. There were reports of a possible sexual assault. Administrators wrestled with how to proceed. ''You pray for snow, you pray for rain, but these are hardy campers,'' Dr. Wakefield said. Last month, four weeks after Seattle Central's board banned camping on campus, protesters moved peacefully off the site. In a blog post, Dr. Wakefield wrote proudly that the encampment ''was one of the very few protest camps in the world to resolve peacefully.''
For their part, faculty members have largely supported the movement, participating in teach-ins and staging walkouts. After campus police at the University of California, Davis, doused students at a sit-in with pepper spray, it was the faculty association that called on the chancellor to resign.
Lisa Duggan, a professor in social and cultural analysis at New York University, is teaching a graduate course this semester that puts Occupy Wall Street in the broader context of other uprisings, including the Wobblies and the Arab Spring. She plans to host Occupy Wall Street activists as speakers and explore the history of debt and the rise of Wall Street. ''I do think it has staying power,'' Ms. Duggan said. ''The issues themselves were so deeply felt across universities, across various communities in the U.S., and across the world.''
The movement has had the subtler effect of turning on its head the widespread characterization of today's young people as entitled and apathetic. Among them was Ericka Hoffman, 26, a junior at California State University, Bakersfield, and one of the organizers of Occupy Colleges, a nonprofit group that facilitates Occupy movements at colleges. Before Occupy, activism did not interest her, but that changed with President Obama's election. Ms. Hoffman saw him enacting policies as usual and, in her view, coming down on the side of Wall Street.
''This person touched the hearts of people who needed change and hope,'' she said. ''I think he let everybody down.'' Meanwhile, her financial situation was worsening. She has $20,000 in student loans but has been unable to find even a menial job. ''I can't get a job at Target,'' she said. ''Even smaller jobs at Circle K won't hire because they say you're overqualified.''
Occupy protests at colleges provided a giddying sense of possibility. Bakersfield is a conservative town yet hundreds of students got involved. One professor brought her class out to talk to students doing a sit-in, and nearly half of them stayed.
''There are quite a few people who are apathetic,'' Ms. Hoffman said. ''Some of them don't know what to do. They can't see that it's possible.''
But the hardest battle, she believes, will be getting the political and financial masters of the universe to listen.
''People in positions of power, I think they believe nothing is going to happen,'' she said. ''We're just going to yell and scream and hold up signs and nothing's going to change. But you've got an entire generation of people that realize something is wrong and something has to change because the system is wrong. There's more of us than there are of them.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the Occupy movement on campuses misidentified the university attended by Ericka Hoffman, a student activist. It is California State University Bakersfield, not the University of California, Bakersfield.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); FORECLOSURE (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); POCATELLO, ID, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



923 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BOOKS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: In Beetle's Creation Story, a Plot Twist

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
THE tale is intriguing: a Jewish engineer and journalist, whose designs and published work in the 1930s laid out the basics for the Volkswagen Beetle championed by Hitler, was arrested, chased from Germany and nearly airbrushed out of history.
The story of Josef Ganz is the result of more than five years of research by Paul Schilperoord, a Dutch technology journalist who is studying industrial design in Italy. The trove of documents and photographs he assembled form the basis of ''The Extraordinary Life of Josef Ganz: The Jewish Engineer Behind Hitler's Volkswagen'' (RVP Publishers, 2011). 
The book provides a picture of the automotive culture in Germany between the wars, with many small, struggling companies. Published in English for the first time in November, the work had previously been available in Dutch, Portuguese and German.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Schilperoord addressed the book's challenge to the standard history -- that Hitler hired Ferdinand Porsche, who was known as one of Germany's most successful automobile engineers from his work on military vehicles during World War I, to design and build his Strength Through Joy car. The Strength Through Joy movement was a Nazi enterprise that organized worker recreation programs, sponsoring sports and vacations.
Mr. Schilperoord said that before World War II the word Volkswagen was so common as to be a cliche. ''People's car'' in Germany in the 1930s was like ''personal computer'' in the United States in the 1980s. Inspired by Henry Ford, many young engineers sought to build transportation for the many.
Ganz was one. Ganz wrote for the magazine Motor-Kritik, which faulted German cars as antiquated and often unsafe, while he also consulted on engineering matters for automakers. He held a number of patents for suspension, steering and other systems.
Ganz advocated a people's car with an air-cooled engine placed at the rear, based on a backbone-type frame and using independent suspension at both ends. He was a friend of Paul Jaray, an aeronautical pioneer, and pushed for Jaray's streamlined body designs whose shape resembled what is now known as the Beetle.
Ganz promoted these ideas as a journalist. As part of the press gaggle covering the new chancellor's visit, Mr. Schilperoord said, ''He probably stood a few meters from Hitler at the 1933 Berlin auto show.''
But little more than a year later, according to Mr. Schilperoord, Ganz was arrested by the Gestapo, removed from his magazine job because he was Jewish and driven from the country. Ganz felt his life was in danger in Germany and Switzerland, where he settled.
Ganz had run afoul of the Nazis even before Hitler took power. In 1931, a Nazi propaganda publication highlighting the ostensible shady business practices of Jews charged Ganz with editorially intimidating car companies to give him consulting fees. He was hired by Adler, BMW, Mercedes and Standard.
''Yes, it is a slightly strange position,'' Mr. Schilperoord said. ''How can you be a consultant and also be the critic? But I believe he honestly wanted to see progress in car design.''
At the time, Mr. Schilperoord said, Ganz was the only one arguing for a combination of tubular chassis, rear engine, streamlined body and independent suspension -- a formula that would produce a light, affordable family car. The Ganz story even has a villain worthy of a period thriller, Paul Ehrhardt, a former colleague at Motor-Kritik. The two had a falling out, and it is thought that Ehrhardt probably denounced Ganz to the Nazis.
After fleeing Germany, Ganz tried to develop a people's car for Switzerland. In 1951, he moved to Australia and went to work for Holden, the General Motors subsidiary. In 1965 he told his story to Australian Motor Sports and Automobiles magazine under the headline ''How I Invented the Volkswagen.'' Ganz died in 1967.
Perhaps because it is hard to accept that a feel-good car like the Beetle could be so closely linked to the evils of Nazi Germany, people have long been captivated by stories of alternative origins. Ganz is just one of several engineers considered to have a rightful claim to being the Beetle's creator.
The Automotive Hall of Fame in Detroit, among other groups, supports the position that key ideas came from Bela Barenyi, the genius engineer from Daimler Benz who invented the crumple zone and other safety features.
Hans Ledwinka, of the Czech automaker Tatra, may have the strongest case; Hitler and Ganz saw the impressive Tatra 77 at the 1934 Berlin auto show. After the war, a German court agreed on Ledwinka's role in creating the Beetle and ordered a payment of three million marks.
Whether the readers of Mr. Schilperoord's book will accept the thesis that without Ganz the Volkswagen would not have existed is less certain. Ganz's ideas showed up in models he helped develop, like the Standard Superior and in his Maikafer, or May bug, prototype.
But there were many similar cars: the rear-engine Mercedes 140, 150 and 170H models, the small Tatra 11, even the oddball Bungartz Butz. Porsche himself designed two VW-like models, in 1931-32, one for Zundapp, the motorcycle maker, and another for NSU.
''The Beetle was an accumulation from many ideas and from so many people that it is impossible to say one person was the originator of it,'' Mr. Schilperoord said.
But the Beetle was more than a collection of technical innovations. To build cars for a whole people, as Henry Ford showed, required the creation of a huge manufacturing, sales and distribution enterprise.
In a country as economically desperate as Germany was between the wars, only an ego-driven tyrant would have undertaken such an enterprise. But as history proved, the sound principles underlying the Beetle's design enabled it to outlive the reign of the murderous dictator who made the project possible.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANCESTORS: Clockwise from below, Josef Ganz in his Maikafer prototype
Ganz perched on the roof of a Standard Superior
Adolf Hitler speaks at the 1938 opening of the Volkswagen plant
Hitler's 1933 sketch for a ''people's car.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF RVP PUBLISHERS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); WRITERS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ARRESTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PATENTS (73%); WORLD WAR I (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); SPONSORSHIP (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



924 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Caitlin Loomis, David Stitelman

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Dr. Caitlin Loomis and Dr. David Hugo Stitelman were married Saturday afternoon at St. James Episcopal Church in Woodstock, Vt. The Rev. Joan T. Osgood, the senior associate pastor of Stanwich Congregational Church in Greenwich, Conn., performed the ceremony.
The bride, 29, and the bridegroom, 33, met in 2007 at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they received medical degrees.
The bride, who is keeping her name, is a third-year resident in neurology at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. She graduated from Princeton. 
She is a daughter of Mary Lynn Rega Loomis and Ralph C. Loomis Jr. of Stamford, Conn. The bride's father retired as the president of the Stamford Partnership, a nonprofit group that promotes the economic development of the City of Stamford. Her mother is a science teacher at the Middle School at Greenwich Academy, a preparatory school for girls in Greenwich.
The bridegroom is a first-year fellow in pediatric surgery at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. He graduated summa cum laude from Tufts.
He is a son of Jane Halbing Stitelman and Dr. Michael Stitelman of North Branford, Conn. The bridegroom's mother retired this month as a journal editor for the department of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine. His father is a psychiatrist in private practice in Branford, Conn.
When the couple met, the bride was in her third year of medical school and the bridegroom in his third year of residency. ''He was pretty busy in his training,'' Dr. Loomis said, ''and I was trying to figure out what I was going to do.''
Over the next three years, they saw each other when their friends got together and often walked home together since they lived right around the block from each other.
''We were pretty close,'' she said, ''and knew what was going on in each other's lives.''
In May 2010, after she had moved even closer to his apartment and he needed a new laundry basket, they finally ventured out on their own -- to an Ikea.
''I thought it was the saddest thing in the world to do laundry-basket shopping all by myself,'' he said. So he invited Dr. Loomis.
Afterward, they drove out of their way to Fairmount Park in Philadelphia and walked through the Japanese tea garden.
Dr. Stitelman recalled enjoying the afternoon very much, but said, ''I was nervous, too, because my fate was up in the air.'' He had applied for fellowships, and had no idea where he would wind up.
But on the ride home they agreed to get together again, this time for dinner at Dr. Stitelman's apartment.
''He cooked chicken parm,'' she said, ''and we ate on his roof deck. I think he held my hand, and he thinks I held his. We can't agree on what truly happened.''
They both do agree that there was a shift in their relationship that day.
The next morning they had coffee and muffins together on Rittenhouse Square, and a little past noon Dr. Stitelman learned that he had been accepted as a fellow at the Children's Hospital.
''There were all these possibilities,'' he said. ''I had all these ties to Philadelphia, but now I had found someone great in Philadelphia.'' ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); PSYCHIATRY (79%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); CHILDREN (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



925 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Mentoring

BYLINE: By GERALD CHERTAVIAN. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
I WAS born in Lowell, Mass., where my father, a child of Armenian immigrants, was a dentist. He went to dental school on the G.I. Bill and later met my mother when she was working as a dental hygienist.
Starting at around age 13, I had a series of weekend and summer jobs -- everything from scooping ice cream, making doughnuts and pumping gas to working at the local golf course, where I had to line up carts for the players by 5 a.m. 
One of my high school teachers recruited my older brother, then me, to attend his alma mater, Bowdoin College, in Maine. I volunteered for the Big Brothers Big Sisters program and was matched with a local student. The experience opened my eyes to the joys of mentoring.
After I graduated with an economics degree in 1987, I moved to New York as a trainee at Chemical Bank. I signed up again as a Big Brother, and was matched with David Heredia, a 10-year-old Dominican who lived with his mother and brothers on the Lower East Side.
I spent every Saturday with David, who had a gift for drawing, and I saw how hard it was for him to realize his dreams without outside support. That experience planted the idea that I wanted to create a program to equip talented and motivated youth with support, training and job opportunities. I remain close to this day with David, who now has a career in animation.
I decided to get an M.B.A., and in my application to Harvard Business School, I outlined my vision for a youth program. That same year, I met my future wife, Kate, who is English, at a party.
We married in October 1992, after I graduated, and we moved to London. My first job was with an affinity credit card company. Then, a year later, I was a co-founder of a technology and software company, Conduit Communications. In 1999, we sold the company, and the next year, we moved to the United States with our two children -- a third was born in 2003 -- so I could pursue my idea of helping low-income, at-risk youth.
In 2000, we started Year Up in Boston. It's been a family project. Kate, who has returned to her profession as an art dealer, volunteered in the office in the early years, and she continues to mentor students. Many nights, we have young adults around our dinner table.
By July 2001, we had enrolled 22 young people for our yearlong program, which includes six months of training and six months in an internship. Our students, who are from 18 to 24 years old, learn middle-skill jobs like desktop and help-desk support.
With companies like Bain & Company and Fidelity as partners, the first internships began in January 2002. Later that year, our program received its first big grant, $1 million, and in May 2005, we expanded to Providence, R.I. The next year, we opened an office in the Washington area, then in New York and, over time, seven more cities.
Despite our expansion, we have had our ups and downs. When the financial crisis hit, Wall Street firms were among our largest clients, so we had to scramble to help our interns find new jobs.
And sometimes our students ''fire themselves.'' They sign a contract with us and expect consequences if they don't fulfill their end of the deal. We help them work on their confidence, voice and identity, but we are not in the business of accepting excuses. They are capable of owning their futures. We provide them a year to move up in their lives, and so far, about 5,000 have taken advantage of it.
For me, this is a matter of social justice. I believe that young adults deserve opportunity -- and that the country needs to better utilize its human capital. This has been my dream for decades, and I feel lucky to be able to help it come true.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GERALD CHERTAVIAN: Chief executive of Year Up, a training program for young adults AGE 46 FAVORITE ACTIVITIES Skiing, surfing and bicycling RECENTLY READ ''The Help,'' by Kathryn Stockett (PHOTOGRAPH BY YEAR UP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); DENTISTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); ART DEALERS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); ORAL HYGIENE (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); ANIMATION (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (64%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (60%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



926 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Stuck In The Loop

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Throughout American history there has almost always been at least one central economic narrative that gave the ambitious or unsatisfied reason to pack up and seek their fortune elsewhere. For the first 300 or so years of European settlement, the story was about moving outward: getting immigrants to the continent and then to the frontier to clear the prairies, drain the swamps and build new cities.
By the end of the 19th century, as the frontier vanished, the U.S. had a mild panic attack. What would this vibrant, entrepreneurial country be without new lands to conquer? Some people (I'm looking at you, Teddy Roosevelt) decided to keep on conquering (Cuba, the Philippines, etc.), but eventually, in industrialization, the U.S. found a new narrative of economic mobility at home. From the 1890s to the 1960s, people moved from farm to city, first in the North and then in the South. In fact, by the 1950s, there was enough prosperity and white-collar work that many began to move to the suburbs. As the population aged, there was also a shift from the cold Rust Belt to the comforts of the Sun Belt. We think of this as an old person's migration, but it created many jobs for the young in construction and health care, not to mention tourism, retail and restaurants. 
For the last 20 years -- from the end of the cold war through two burst bubbles in a single decade -- the U.S. has been casting about for its next economic narrative. And now it is experiencing another period of panic, which is bad news for much of the work force but particularly for its youngest members. The U.S. has always been a remarkably itinerant country, but new data from the Census Bureau indicate that mobility has reached its lowest level in recorded history. Sure, some people are stuck in homes valued at less than their mortgages, but many young people -- who don't own homes and don't yet have families -- are staying put, too. This suggests, among other things, that people aren't packing up for new economic opportunities the way they used to. Rather than dividing the country into the 1 percenters versus everyone else, the split in our economy is really between two other classes: the mobile and immobile.
Part of the problem is that the country's largest industries are in decline. In the past, it was perfectly clear where young people should go for work (Chicago in the 1870s, Detroit in the 1910s, Houston in the 1970s) and, more or less, what they'd be doing when they got there (killing steer, building cars, selling oil). And these industries were large enough to offer jobs to each class of worker, from unskilled laborer to manager or engineer. Today, the few bright spots in our economy are relatively small (though some promise future growth) and decentralized. There are great jobs in Silicon Valley, in the biotech research capitals of Boston and Raleigh-Durham and in advanced manufacturing plants along the southern I-85 corridor. These companies recruit all over the country and the globe for workers with specific abilities. (You don't need to be the next Mark Zuckerberg to get a job in one of the microhubs, by the way. But you will almost certainly need at least a B.A. in computer science or a year or two at a technical school.) This newer, select job market is national, and it offers members of the mobile class competitive salaries and higher bargaining power.
Many members of the immobile class, on the other hand, live in the America of the grim headlines. If you have no specialized skills, there's little reason to uproot to another state and be the last in line for a low-paying job at a new auto plant or a burgeoning green-energy cluster. The surprise in the census data, however, is that the immobile work force is not limited to unskilled workers. In fact, many have a college degree.
Until now, a B.A. in any subject was a near-guarantee of at least middle-class wages. But today, a quarter of college graduates make less than the typical worker without a bachelor's degree. David Autor, a prominent labor economist at M.I.T., recently told me that a college degree alone is no longer a guarantor of a good job. While graduates from top universities are still likely to get a good job no matter what their major is, he said, graduates from less-exalted schools are going to be judged on what they know. To compete for jobs on a national level, they should be armed with the skills that emerging industries need, whether technical (computer science) or not.
Those without such specialized skills -- like poetry, or even history, majors -- are already competing with their neighbors for the same sorts of mediocre, poorer-paying local jobs like low-level management or big-box retail sales. And with the low-skilled labor market atomized into thousands of microeconomies, immobile workers are less able to demand better wages or conditions or to acquire valuable skills.
So what, exactly, should the ambitious young worker of today be learning? Unfortunately, it's hard to say, since the U.S. doesn't have one clear national project. There are plenty of emerging, smaller industries, but which ones are the most promising? (Nanotechnology's moment of remarkable growth seems to have been 5 years into the future for something like 20 years now.) It's not clear exactly what skills are most needed or if they will even be valuable in a decade.
What is clear is that all sorts of government issues -- education, health-insurance portability, worker retraining -- are no longer just bonuses to already prosperous lives but existential requirements. It's in all of our interests to make sure that as many people as possible are able to move toward opportunity, and America's ability to hurl people and money at exciting new ideas is still greater than that of most other wealthy countries. (As recently as five years ago, U.S. migration was twice the rate of European Union states.) That, at least, is some comfort at a time when our national economy seems to be searching for its next story line.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Americans have become more stationary than ever.
2. The new division in the U.S. economy is between a mobile class and an immobile one.
3. Look out, poetry majors.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VAHRAM MURADYAN) (MM13
MM14)
 CHART: U.S. Interstate Migration: The percentage of the population that moved to a different state in one year. (MM14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COLD WAR (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); CENSUS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); HOME PRICES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012



927 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Voices From the Occupy Front

BYLINE: By ELISA MALA

 BODY:
Christopher Cooke, 24
Senior, political science/psychology
Idaho State University, Pocatello
ACTIVISM RESUME I won a Martin Luther King Youth Leadership Award when I was graduating high school in Salt Lake City. I identified as a queer Latino male, so pushing for those rights meant a lot to me. As soon as I got to Idaho, I joined College Democrats and the Campus L.G.B.T. My life is activism, and I love it.
OCCUPYING Daytime resident of Occupy Pocatello, fall semester. We weren't a 24-hour occupation but we got training in Arctic winter survival. Outdoor living opens your eyes to the world around you. When you're in the cold, you're not looking for a Wi-Fi hotspot, a movie or cooking supplies. It makes everything you have been conditioned to ask for seem so pathetic.
This semester I moved to Boise to intern with Representative Brian Cronin. I'll complete courses online in my downtime, which will be, like, none. Occupy Boise is a 24-hour movement. I'll camp when I can. 
SCARY MOMENT Hearing comments like ''Get a job!'' or people calling us hippies. Usually, they do a drive-by yell. One night in Pocatello, someone shot a bottle rocket at the tent.
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH Rumor has it that some in the legislature will push to make protesting harder on the Occupy groups in the state. Should that time arise, I imagine I'll be occupying or protesting every free minute I have. Our government must not strip away one of the most fundamental rights of its citizenry.
WHAT MY MOTHER THINKS My mom dreads it. She wants me to be in school, to graduate as fast as possible. I fell behind on a few assignments, I'm not going to lie. I worked 40 hours a week last semester. I worked because my future is always uncertain. I have a medical condition called Fabry's disease. I'm lucky enough to be on an insurance plan through my mom, but that's not always going to be there.
Guido Girgenti, 19
Sophomore, urban and environmental policy Occidental College
ACTIVISM RESUME I've been student organizing since I was 15. I went on a trip to New Orleans with a youth-led organization that looked at Katrina through the lens of racial and economic injustice. From there, I developed an interest in the subject.
OCCUPYING Weekend resident of Occupy Los Angeles until Nov. 29, when arrested for failure to disperse (no charges have been filed. The politics department at Occidental awarded me a grant of $747 for living expenses to spend winter break in L.A. to do additional work for Occupy L.A. and write a paper about the O.W.S. movement. We developed training for the movement to teach nonviolent discipline, strategies and how to effectively use direct-action tactics.
BEST OCCUPY MOMENT When we had our first mass student meeting. It was, like, 45 students and 30 adults. Nobody knew each other, and we had a meeting for an hour and a half about how students can play a role in revitalizing American democracy.
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH A constitutional amendment banning corporate funding in politics. The most important goal, however, is transforming our society so that our deep commitment to justice becomes our nation's first priority. Occupy Wall Street is the movement we were waiting for. In a very deep way, young people like me longed for something larger and more transformative.
HOW IT'S GOING AT SCHOOL My class participation and the amount of reading I've been doing has decreased considerably and a few of my grades have gone down. That's a larger conversation about ways to do well in college that don't involve participation and don't involve reading. The most important things I've learned in my life have taken place outside the classroom. Learning has gone up considerably.
VOICES FROM THE OCCUPY FRONT
to ''get a job!'' (And isn't that the problem?)
Interviews by Elisa Mala
ACTIVISM RESUME At John Jay College, where I was a visiting student for the semester, there was this group called John Jay Rising that started just when the Occupy movement was getting media attention. They managed to have a walkout for the entire school. I became an organizer. I'm trying to start something similar at City College. The way John Jay was built was awesome. They took a large commuter school and they made themselves into a community. It's a leaderless group. We didn't want to make it about one person. It's about everybody.
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH The chancellor at CUNY makes more than the president -- and President Obama makes $450,000. He is the 1 percent. He got a pay raise last year, and our tuition goes up by $300 a year. Some students want free tuition. I don't think that will happen.
BEST/WORST MOMENT There were two amazing protests, on Nov. 21 and Nov. 28. Being brutalized by the police -- that encompassed the greatest and worst moments of the movement for me. There were no broken bones during the protests, but one individual went to the hospital. A CUNY police officer took out a baton and hit her in the jugular. Another student was dragged across the floor.
WHY I DO IT I'm from Ecuador. I came to the U.S. when I was 9. I lived in Scarsdale for a bit; my mom remarried someone who was a med student. I'm one of the rare 1 percent who goes to CUNY. But I've been working since I was 16. I don't think my role is: ''I'm part of the elite and I will lead.'' I really believe education is a human right. I could have gone to any school I wanted to, and I decided to stay at CUNY. CUNY has this vibrancy and this intellectual drive.
Carlos Pazmino, 21
Sophomore, political science, City College of New York
ACTIVISM RESUME During college, I was involved in a student movement to hold Columbia accountable to the needs and desires of residents and small businesses of West Harlem, where the university was planning an expansion. After college, I became communications director for the New York Civil Liberties Union.
OCCUPYING As often as I can! Last month, we replaced our tents with a geodesic dome. I was there for our consolidation party, at 5:45 a.m. The dome is smack at the center of the space where our encampment stood. We still very much stand out, but we don't sleep there. We spent a couple days outfitting it as a warm, bright space that can host small teach-ins, discussions and readings. It will
serve as a rendezvous point for groups of occupiers who will head from there to various spots around campus to carry out all kinds of creative actions.
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH In a broader way, the Occupy movement is reminding some subset of the undergraduate population that there are possibilities for the future other than becoming part of the world of finance or the world of business -- that you can become part of that system and from the inside work to make it a responsible system, and transform it.
ON BEING IN ELITISM'S FRONT YARD Having a physical presence that exists in proximity to those big decision makers or question framers is like the original members of Occupy Wall Street, who chose to go to the financial capital. You go as close as you can.
Maggie Gram, 28
Ph.D. candidate, English, Harvard
ACTIVISM RESUME I've been volunteering for Feed the Need for about a year and half. For example, we gathered vegetables that would normally be composted and distributed them to the people.
OCCUPYING Resident of Occupy Blo-No (Bloomington-Normal). I stayed five or six nights a week last semester and will be there this year. I visited family over Christmas but stopped by the tents that night to show support. We're also considering setting up off campus. We've built a wooden structure but it's in the garage. We plan to paint and use it in the spring.
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH We try to engage passers-by. The farmers actually
follow our Facebook pretty often. The community outreach group went door to door to small businesses. We had to indicate we were nonviolent and peaceful, and working on their behalf. We've had donations from three of them; we've reached about $700, and counting food it's about $1,000. A couple business owners attended our general assembly meetings, and contributed two-by-four tarps and other equipment to help us winterize.
BUT IT'S 20 DEGREES It was hard in the beginning because we weren't sure how many layers to wear. I do wear two jackets. Once we got used to that, it was the best sleep of my life. There's something about the open air. Camping is actually a lot easier because you just roll out of bed and walk to class.
Kelby Cumpston, 22
Senior, sociology/economics, Illinois State University, Normal
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED16)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED17)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN HOOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (ED18-ED19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); GENETIC DISEASES (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: IDAHO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: POCATELLO, ID, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



928 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Leslie Hawke and David Weiss

BYLINE: By ANNA JANE GROSSMAN

 BODY:
IN the 12 years since she left online publishing to do humanitarian work with disadvantaged children in Romania, Leslie Hawke has advised many younger women on matters of the heart.
''I'm always counseling against love,'' she said. ''I tell them not to invest time and energy in finding the perfect guy because it's just not going to happen.''
But then, last August, she started corresponding with a man she had not seen since the 1970s. They met on Columbus Day, got engaged over Thanksgiving and married on New Year's Eve.
''There's always something slightly comic about someone talking about how they're beyond love, and then watching them fall in love,'' said Ms. Hawke's son, the actor and writer Ethan Hawke. ''Clearly, despite our best efforts, we're not as in control of our own lives as we'd like to think.'' 
Mr. Hawke's new stepfather is David Weiss, 61, a lawyer at Goulston & Storrs in Boston. He has five daughters and a son; he was married to their mother for 25 years before divorcing in 2003.
In the years since, friends and family may not have pegged him as lonely, but ''he wasn't as happy as it seemed he could be,'' said his oldest child, Alexander Weiss. ''Over the past couple years, he's been looking a decade older than he should.''
In 2007, while Mr. Weiss was helping one of his daughters do research online about Roma children, for a school project, he kept coming across a name that, for decades, he often thought of but never spoke aloud: Leslie Hawke.
Ms. Hawke, 59, lives in Bucharest and is a founder of Ovidiu Rom, a Romanian organization that works to provide early education to Roma children. In 2005, she received an Outstanding Citizen Award from the United States Agency for International Development.
''Her success rates are unusually high, and I think it's because normal hurdles don't daunt Leslie,'' said her friend Isabel Fonseca, author of ''Bury Me Standing: The Gypsies and Their Journey,'' which deals with the Roma community. ''She's taken a very practical approach and can navigate both the highest echelons of bureaucratic government and the slums. She's incredibly devoted and incredibly cheerful.''
Ms. Hawke first went to Romania in 2000, when, in a moment of caprice, she joined the Peace Corps at age 48.
''She makes all the pivotal decisions of her life on a whim, and I think her batting average is pretty good,'' Mr. Hawke said.
One such hasty decision was marrying his father, Jim Hawke, when she was 17.
''I was so young, so idealistic,'' she said. ''And I wasn't even pregnant.'' The couple had been high school sweethearts in Fort Worth.
They were on their honeymoon in New York in 1969 when she first met Mr. Weiss, who was a close friend of her husband at Cornell, where both had studied math.
Mr. Weiss and Ms. Hawke have a photo of themselves sitting on a railing in Madison Square Park hours after their introduction, looking in opposite directions, a decorous six inches between them. It was taken by another college friend, Dan Schumm.
''David was always very serious,'' Mr. Schumm said. ''An intellectual. He liked talking about ideas and art and philosophy and literature. And Leslie was open and lighthearted and delightful. There was a vibe between them, but no one discussed it.''
The following year, Ethan was born. But while her son was still a toddler, Ms. Hawke found herself drawn to Mr. Weiss.
''There was something very Henry Jamesian about it,'' Ms. Hawke said. ''He knew. I knew. Friends may have surmised. But it was never acted on, or even fully verbalized.''
Mr. Weiss was still living in Ithaca, N.Y. He then moved to Cambridge, Mass., where he attended Harvard Law School. But he frequently visited Leslie and Jim Hawke in Texas, where they lived.
''The situation was always a little awkward,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''Nothing ever happened, but there was always tension.''
She didn't think he was particularly handsome, ''but that wasn't what it was about,'' she said. ''He was just extremely intense and interesting. I didn't like it when he left the room.''
In conversations with his college friend, Mr. Weiss always avoided any discussion of Ms. Hawke.
''I found her to be just so funny and strong -- someone who sees things as they are,'' he said.
They wrote letters. ''But you could read those letters now and you've no idea what the subtext was,'' he said. ''There was this difficulty in the air about it all, and we were trying to do what was best for everybody.''
When the Hawkes divorced in 1974, Mr. Weiss decided to sever connections with both friends.
''I felt things were just too complicated,'' he said. ''But I still thought she was pretty spectacular.''
In 1995, three years following the end of her second marriage, which lasted a decade, Ms. Hawke tracked down Mr. Weiss online and called him at his office.
''I think I expected that sooner or later, he would show up on my doorstep, but he never did,'' she said. ''Over time, I came to the conclusion that my attraction had just been a goofy infatuation.''
On the phone, he was cold. He was still married.
''He said he had six home-schooled kids and I was like, 'Whoa.' He seemed back-to-nature-y,'' she said. ''I said something like 'Maybe you know that Ethan became an actor,' and he was like, 'I don't go to movies.' ''
That was partly a lie. ''In truth, I had done all I could to avoid seeing Ethan's movies or reading his books, for the same reason that I'd avoided being friendly to his mother when she called,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''I had this young family that was important to me. I couldn't afford thoughts of Leslie.''
Then late last summer, one week after his youngest child left for college, Mr. Weiss went back to the Web page he had mentally bookmarked four years earlier, and followed links until he found an address for the Alex Fund, a New York nonprofit group that Ms. Hawke had started to help finance education programs for disadvantaged Romanians.
He wrote a letter to her in care of the Alex Fund, which arrived during one of her trips to New York to visit her four grandchildren.
''I saw the handwriting and the name in the corner and I thought 'Oh. My. God,' '' she said. ''I was dumbfounded. All he wrote was that he'd like to be back in touch.''
She showed it to her son. ''I said, 'You read it, what is he really saying? Give me the guy's point of view,' '' she recalled. He confirmed her hunch. ''He's interested,'' he said.
The couple began exchanging e-mails in August. Two weeks in, he said, ''If this continues, I'm going to fall in love with you all over again,'' she recalled.
She was stunned. ''He'd never admitted he loved me to begin with,'' she said.
They tried to talk on the phone, but their one attempt was disastrous, she said, adding, ''Neither of us had the courage to suggest Skype.''
But then he started writing her poetry. She was giddy and forwarded it to her son.
''You really are in love, aren't you, Mom?'' he wrote back.
''My only concern is one I always have when someone falls in love -- just don't fall,'' Mr. Hawke wrote. ''Stay standing. Be patient. Move slowly. Use what you've learned. Move forward the way you would advise your granddaughters to move.''
Ms. Hawke suggested to Mr. Weiss that it would be sensible to meet in person. They decided on London in early October. She arrived at the May Fair Hotel in a cab that, by happy coincidence, was wrapped in a Tiffany advertisement that made it look like a tied-up blue box. When Mr. Weiss went to Romania to visit her for another long weekend in November, they began discussing marrying and growing old together.
The moment he got home after Thanksgiving, he told his children about their plans.
''It seemed really precipitous to us,'' said his son, Alexander. ''From our perspective, it's a thing of a couple of months, but they have this long history that we knew nothing about. I haven't seen him this happy in a long time. In the past weeks, he's seemed to shed years.''
For now, they will have a long-distance marriage, meeting every month or two. She plans to return to the United States in 2020; if he retires before then, he will leave his home in Marlborough, Mass., and join her in Romania.
She did not see his house until their honeymoon; she met his children on the eve of the wedding, which was attended by their combined seven children and three of their five grandchildren, as well as three dozen friends.
''His daughters were wonderfully open to the idea of their father being in love,'' she said. ''But I think the reality was a little more challenging. One commented that it was weird to have a father start acting like a teen, constantly checking his phone for messages.''
Her son is cautiously optimistic.
''I can barely manage my own life, let alone give an opinion on what's right for her,'' he said. ''We'll see how long the marriage lasts. I'm not saying I have doubts. It's just that none of us can know the future.''
But he said he likes to imagine it will be a bright one.
''I've never seen her happier than she has been in these last 10 years,'' Mr. Hawke said. ''She's found herself and her happiness, and this seems a natural extension of that.''
Rabbi Chava E. Koster officiated at a ceremony at the Village Temple in New York. Mr. Hawke, who was the host of the reception at his Chelsea apartment, read W. H. Auden's ''As I Walked Out One Evening.'' His friend Jonathan Marc Sherman read Gregory Corso's long poem ''Marriage,'' which years ago Ms. Hawke read to her son at bedtime.
It's just that I see love as odd as wearing shoes --
I never wanted to marry a girl who was like my mother
And Ingrid Bergman was always impossible
And there's maybe a girl now but she's already married
''It's like they're living out a lifelong fantasy,'' said Mr. Schumm, whose photograph of the couple's first meeting appeared on the cover of the ceremony's program.
Ms. Hawke said: ''It would make more sense to wait, but it wouldn't be nearly as much fun. It just feels like this is my life, this is what's happening, and it would be artificial to not go with it.
''We're certainly not being cautious. We're in an altered state. People are goofy when they're in love.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Vows column last Sunday, about the marriage of Leslie Hawke and David Weiss, misstated the number of grandchildren who attended the wedding. Three of them did, not all five.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MANHATTAN, DEC. 31: The couple at the home of the bride's son, the actor Ethan Hawke. Below, Mr. Hawke and his daughter Clementine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ROMANI PEOPLE (86%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (73%); STEPPARENTS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) ROMANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



929 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: A Reprieve for the Unemployed

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
FANNIE MAE and Freddie Mac's recent extension of forbearance programs will give short-term aid to unemployed homeowners, but housing counselors warn that these borrowers will need to look at longer-term solutions.
In a forbearance program, a lender agrees not to foreclose on a property and gives a borrower several months' grace from or reduction in monthly mortgage payments. The programs work best for temporary setbacks, like job loss, health problems or natural disasters.
Along with the reprieve come drawbacks -- most significantly a larger total debt from the smaller payments. ''Your unpaid balance keeps getting higher and higher and higher,'' said Jennifer Murphy, the director of lender-servicer relations for the nonprofit Center for New York City Neighborhoods. 
The new temporary mortgage payment is often set to 31 percent of your household income; in some cases lenders agree to accept no payments. Fannie Mae's extended unemployment program, first offered in the fall of 2010, limits any nonpayment or other forbearance plans to one year, with the second six months requiring its approval as well as the lender's.
But even with the program in place, your lender could still report a mortgage as delinquent, which would adversely affect your credit, so ask about its policy, said Martha Cedeno-Ross, a foreclosure assistance counselor with Neighborhood Housing Services of Waterbury, Conn. Because some agreements may add onerous terms and conditions, homeowners should also consult with a real estate lawyer, or a housing counselor certified by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Some 26,801 homeowners completed Fannie Mae loan forbearance and repayment plans in the first nine months of 2011, up 13 percent from the same period in 2010. By comparison, the total for all of 2008 was 7,892, according to Fannie Mae's financial filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
To qualify, borrowers must be unemployed, which means not working at all, though a co-borrower could still be employed, said Brad German, a Freddie Mac spokesman.
To get started, gather up your financial information and consider writing a ''hardship letter,'' an overview that clearly states what happened and when, Ms. Cedeno-Ross said. The letter could also serve as a starting point for a loan modification and other programs. Give details about your previous salary, severance payments and unemployment benefits; if you have had job interviews, include those details, she said.
You will need to fill out the four-page uniform borrower assistance form used by both Freddie and Fannie, Mr. German said. It is also good for government mortgage assistance programs like Making Home Affordable -- http://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov -- and Knowyouroptions.com.
Be sure to plan an ''end strategy'' well before the forbearance agreement runs out.
''The big question every homeowner should find out: Where will this forbearance lead me?'' said Charles Das, a housing counselor for Brooklyn Housing and Family Services. Homeowners usually get a repayment plan or a loan modification, he said, but he has seen some denied the modification because of low income.
Ms. Murphy says homeowners should use the 6 to 12 months of reduced payments to work with a financial or housing counselor, and if possible, save money and pay off secured debts.
Sometimes borrowers may determine after counseling that they cannot afford the home, said John Walsh, the president of Total Mortgage Services of Milford, Conn. They may then need to sell the home or arrange for ''a graceful exit'' -- for instance, agreeing to give up the deed in lieu of foreclosure, or pursuing a short sale, in which the lender agrees to accept less than the mortgage balance.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); CITIES (69%); APPROVALS (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



930 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4148 words

HEADLINE: How Big-Time Sports Ate College Life

BYLINE: By LAURA PAPPANO. 
Laura Pappano is co-author with Eileen McDonagh of ''Playing With the Boys: Why Separate Is Not Equal in Sports.''

 BODY:
IT was a great day to be a Buckeye. Josh Samuels, a junior from Cincinnati, dates his decision to attend Ohio State to Nov. 10, 2007, and the chill he felt when the band took the field during a football game against Illinois. ''I looked over at my brother and I said, 'I'm going here. There is nowhere else I'd rather be.' '' (Even though Illinois won, 28-21.)
Tim Collins, a junior who is president of Block O, the 2,500-member student fan organization, understands the rush. ''It's not something I usually admit to, that I applied to Ohio State 60 percent for the sports. But the more I do tell that to people, they'll say it's a big reason why they came, too.''
Ohio State boasts 17 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, three Nobel laureates, eight Pulitzer Prize winners, 35 Guggenheim Fellows and a MacArthur winner. But sports rule. 
''It's not, 'Oh, yeah, Ohio State, that wonderful physics department.' It's football,'' said Gordon Aubrecht, an Ohio State physics professor.
Last month, Ohio State hired Urban Meyer to coach football for $4 million a year plus bonuses (playing in the B.C.S. National Championship game nets him an extra $250,000; a graduation rate over 80 percent would be worth $150,000). He has personal use of a private jet.
Dr. Aubrecht says he doesn't have enough money in his own budget to cover attendance at conferences. ''From a business perspective,'' he can see why Coach Meyer was hired, but he calls the package just more evidence that the ''tail is wagging the dog.''
Dr. Aubrecht is not just another cranky tenured professor. Hand-wringing seems to be universal these days over big-time sports, specifically football and men's basketball. Sounding much like his colleague, James J. Duderstadt, former president of the University of Michigan and author of ''Intercollegiate Athletics and the American University,'' said this: ''Nine of 10 people don't understand what you are saying when you talk about research universities. But you say 'Michigan' and they understand those striped helmets running under the banner.''
For good or ill, big-time sports has become the public face of the university, the brand that admissions offices sell, a public-relations machine thanks to ESPN exposure. At the same time, it has not been a good year for college athletics. Child abuse charges against a former Penn State assistant football coach brought down the program's legendary head coach and the university's president. Not long after, allegations of abuse came to light against an assistant basketball coach at Syracuse University. Combine that with the scandals over boosters showering players with cash and perks at Ohio State and, allegedly, the University of Miami and a glaring power gap becomes apparent between the programs and the institutions that house them.
''There is certainly a national conversation going on now that I can't ever recall taking place,'' said William E. Kirwan, chancellor of the University of Maryland system and co-director of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. ''We've reached a point where big-time intercollegiate athletics is undermining the integrity of our institutions, diverting presidents and institutions from their main purpose.''
The damage to reputation was clear in a November survey by Widmeyer Communications in which 83 percent of 1,000 respondents blamed the ''culture of big money'' in college sports for Penn State officials' failure to report suspected child abuse to local law enforcement; 40 percent said they would discourage their child from choosing a Division I institution ''that places a strong emphasis on sports,'' and 72 percent said Division I sports has ''too much influence over college life.''
Has big-time sports hijacked the American campus? The word today is ''balance,'' and the worry is how to achieve it.
The explosion in televised games has spread sports fever well beyond traditional hotbeds like Alabama and Ole Miss. Classes are canceled to accommodate broadcast schedules, and new research suggests that fandom can affect academic performance. Campus life itself revolves around not just going to games but lining up and camping out to get into them.
''It's become so important on the college campus that it's one of the only ways the student body knows how to come together,'' said Allen Sack, president-elect of the Drake Group, a faculty network that lobbies for academic integrity in college sports. ''In China and other parts of the world, there are no gigantic stadiums in the middle of campus. There is a laser focus on education as being the major thing. In the United States, we play football.''
Dr. Sack, interim dean of the University of New Haven's college of business, was sipping orange juice at a coffee shop a few blocks from the Yale Bowl. It was a fitting place to meet, given that when the Ivy League was formed in 1954, presidents of the eight member colleges saw where football was headed and sought to stop it. The pact they made, according to a contemporaneous account in The Harvard Crimson, aimed to ensure that players would ''enjoy the game as participants in a form of recreational competition rather than as professional performers in public spectacles.''
There is nothing recreational about Division I football today, points out Dr. Sack, who played for Notre Dame in the 1960s. Since then, athletic departments have kicked the roof off their budgets, looking more like independent franchises than university departments.
It is that point -- ''this commercial thing'' in the middle of academia, as Charles T. Clotfelter, a public policy professor at Duke, put it -- that some believe has thrown the system out of kilter. In his recent book ''Big-Time Sports in American Universities,'' Dr. Clotfelter notes that between 1985 and 2010, average salaries at public universities rose 32 percent for full professors, 90 percent for presidents and 650 percent for football coaches.
The same trend is apparent in a 2010 Knight Commission report that found the 10 highest-spending athletic departments spent a median of $98 million in 2009, compared with $69 million just four years earlier. Spending on high-profile sports grew at double to triple the pace of that on academics. For example, Big Ten colleges, including Penn State, spent a median of $111,620 per athlete on athletics and $18,406 per student on academics.
Division I football and basketball, of course, bring in millions of dollars a year in ticket sales, booster donations and cable deals. Penn State football is a money-maker: 2010 Department of Education figures show the team spending $19.5 million and bringing in almost $73 million, which helps support 29 varsity sports. Still, only about half of big-time programs end up in the black; many others have to draw from student fees or the general fund to cover expenses. And the gap between top programs and wannabes is only growing with colleges locked into an arms race to attract the best coaches and build the most luxurious venues in hopes of luring top athletes, and donations from happy alumni.
College sports doesn't just demand more and more money; it is demanding more attention from fans.
Glen R. Waddell, associate professor of economics at the University of Oregon, wanted to know how much. In a study published last month as part of the National Bureau of Education Research working paper series, Oregon researchers compared student grades with the performance of the Fighting Ducks, winner of this year's Rose Bowl and a crowd pleaser in their Nike uniforms in crazy color combinations and mirrored helmets.
''Here is evidence that suggests that when your football team does well, grades suffer,'' said Dr. Waddell, who compared transcripts of over 29,700 students from 1999 to 2007 against Oregon's win-loss record. For every three games won, grade-point average for men dropped 0.02, widening the G.P.A. gender gap by 9 percent. Women's grades didn't suffer. In a separate survey of 183 students, the success of the Ducks also seemed to cause slacking off: students reported studying less (24 percent of men, 9 percent of women), consuming more alcohol (28 percent, 20 percent) and partying more (47 percent, 28 percent).
While acknowledging a need for more research, Dr. Waddell believes the results should give campus leaders pause: fandom can carry an academic price. ''No longer can it be the case where we skip right over that inconvenience,'' he said.
Dr. Clotfelter, too, wanted to examine study habits. He tracked articles downloaded from campus libraries during March Madness, the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball tournament. Library patrons at universities with teams in the tournament viewed 6 percent fewer articles a day as long as their team was in contention. When a team won an upset or close game, article access fell 19 percent the day after the victory. Neither dip was made up later with increased downloads.
''Big-time sports,'' Dr. Clotfelter said, ''have a real effect on the way people in universities behave.''
AT Duke, one of the country's top universities, men's basketball sets the rhythms of campus life. Of 600 students who study abroad each year, only 100 do it in the spring. It probably doesn't need to be said, but you don't schedule anything opposite a basketball game. Ever. ''If there's a basketball game, you don't hold the meeting, you don't hold the event,'' said Larry Moneta, vice president for student affairs.
Then there's the annual campout of 1,000 at Krzyzewski ville, the patch of grass named for Coach Mike Krzyzewski outside the hulking Gothic-style gymnasium, to determine the order of the line into the game against the rival University of North Carolina, which the Blue Devils host on March 3. Dr. Moneta several years ago stepped in to ban tents before the first day of classes after winter break (some had started the day after Christmas), but he has mostly ''let the students own this.'' He was pleased when they decided tenting wouldn't start this year until a week later, Jan. 15. Tenters can sleep indoors when it's below 20 degrees or there is ''more than two inches of accumulated snow.'' The rest of the time, students must prove their devotion (extra points for game attendance) and their residency (middle-of-the-night tent checks by ''line monitors'' signaled by a bullhorn).
Even grad students hold their own campout, with 2,200 spending a weekend in tents and RVs to enter a lottery for season tickets; only 725 get lucky. It's become such a big deal that a law professor said they ''have to figure out when that is'' so as not to invite law firms to campus for interviews that weekend.
While Dr. Moneta has ''concerns about occasional alcohol use and abuse'' among K-Ville undergrads (line monitors must intervene if they spot drinking games), he said students manage to camp out ''for the most part without any negative effect on academics.''
Orin Starn, a Duke professor who is a longtime critic of its participation in Division I athletics, begs to differ. He objects to sports occupying ''this gigantic place in the university landscape.'' He calls basketball ''a strain of anti-intellectualism'' that claims too much time and attention. But as an anthropologist -- he teaches ''Anthropology of Sports'' -- he understands why. ''It's like going to the Metropolitan Opera or the New York City Ballet,'' he said. ''It's a chance to see these incredible athletes and this legendary coach.''
Dr. Starn put a scholarly spin on it: ''Big-time sports have become a modern tribal religion for college students.'' There are sacred symbols (team logos), a high priest (Coach K) and shared rituals (chants and face painting). ''This generation loves pageantry and tradition. School spirit is in right now. Now it's hip to be a joiner and it's hip to be a sports fan.'' Also, he observed, ''these kids have grown up with the idea that sports are really a major part of American society and something they should care about.''
Duke's game against North Carolina is special, but it doesn't take much to provoke a queue for men's basketball. At 8:50 a.m. one day last month, students gathered at K-Ville. It didn't matter that it was Wednesday, that the game wasn't for 10 hours, that it would rain (even pour), or that Daniel Carp and Matthew Grossman -- first in line -- had papers due (Mr. Carp on the religious indoctrination of children; Mr. Grossman about Kant and the boundaries of mere reason).
The matchup against Colorado State wasn't even a compelling out-of-conference game. But the point was not just to be at the game but to befirst to enter Cameron Indoor Stadium, thereby securing the best seats in the famed student section.
''Every time they swipe my card and I go in, I get this overwhelming enthusiasm. 'I'm here! It's game time!''' Mr. Grossman, a freshman from Atlanta, explained between bites of a burger topped with crumbled blue cheese after the game, blue and white paint still adorning his face.
The rise of near-professional college sports has fueled the rise of near-professional fans. Mr. Carp, a freshman from Philadelphia sporting a No. 2 jersey, said that being a fan was integral to college life. ''You just learn really early on how to make going to basketball games part of your everyday routine.''
K-Ville is legendary, but similar scenes play out at Oklahoma State, Texas A&M, North Carolina State, the University of Missouri, San Diego State and Xavier University, where students line up or camp out for days to get into games. At the University of Kentucky, they camp out for access to the official start of basketball practice.
For a Tuesday night game against Duke in Columbus (for which there were enough seats, according to Mr. Collins, the Block O president), Ohio State students pitched tents along the outside wall of Schottenstein Center starting at 5 p.m. on a Sunday.
''I can imagine they may have neglected a class or two on Monday and Tuesday,'' Mr. Collins said. ''But we are here for four years. What will you remember 10 years from now, that you decided to write that English paper, or you had front row seats at the Duke game?''
Worry about students making that sort of academic tradeoff led officials at Indiana University, Bloomington, to cut short ''Camp Crean'' (after Coach Tom Crean) last month when students started lining up four days in advance for the Hoosiers basketball game against Kentucky. ''It's the week before finals, and we didn't want the kids camping out and staying up for days when it's going to be in the 20s and -- oh, by the way -- it's finals,'' said the university spokesman, Mark Land.
While only ''a small number'' of students had started camping, Mr. Land noted, ''if you get hundreds out there, it's a party atmosphere.''
TELEVISION has fed the popularity. The more professional big-time college sports has become, the more nonathletes have been drawn in, said Murray Sperber, author of ''Beer and Circus: How Big-Time College Sports Has Crippled Undergraduate Education.'' ''Media coverage gets into kids' heads,'' he said, ''and by the time they are ready to choose a college, it becomes a much bigger factor than it was historically.''
In the last 10 years, the number of college football and basketball games on ESPN channels rose to 1,320 from 491. This doesn't include games shown by competitors: the Big 10 Network, Fox, CBS/Turner, Versus and NBC. All that programming means big games scheduled during the week and television crews, gridlock and tailgating on campus during the school day.
''How can you have a Wednesday night football game without shutting down the university for a day or two?'' asked Dr. Sack of the Drake Group with a twinge of sarcasm. He's not exactly wrong, though. Last semester, the University of Central Florida canceled afternoon classes before the televised game against the University of Tulsa. Mississippi State canceled a day of classes before a Thursday night broadcast of a football game against Louisiana State, creating an online skirmish between Bulldog fans and a blogger who suggested parents should get their tuition back.
Even Boston College bowed, canceling afternoon classes because the football game against Florida State was on ESPN at 8 p.m. Janine Hanrahan, a Boston College senior, was so outraged at missing her political science class, ''Immigration, Processes and Policies,'' that she wrote an opinion piece headlined ''B.C.'s Backwards Priorities'' in the campus newspaper. ''It was an indication that football was superseding academics,'' she explained. (''We are the national role model,'' a university spokesman, Jack Dunn, responded. ''We are the school everyone calls to say, 'Where do you find the balance?' '')
Universities make scheduling sacrifices not just for the lucrative contracts but also because few visuals build the brand better than an appearance on ESPN's road show ''College GameDay.'' (In November, it had John L. Hennessey, president of Stanford, out on the Oval at daybreak working the crowd.) The school spirit conveyed by cheering thousands -- there were 18,000 on Francis Quadrangle at the University of Missouri, Columbia, on Oct. 23, 2010, for ''GameDay'' -- is a selling point to students choosing colleges. When Missouri first started recruiting in Chicago a decade ago, few prospective students had ever heard the university's nickname, ''Mizzou,'' according to the admissions director, Barbara Rupp. ''Now they know us by 'Mizzou,' '' thanks in part to ''GameDay.'' ''I can't deny that,'' she said.
Universities play the sports card, encouraging students to think of themselves as fans. A Vanderbilt admissions blog last fall featured ''My Vandy Fanatic Weekend'' describing the thrill of attending a basketball game and football game back to back. ''One of the things we hear in the admissions office is that students these days who are serious about academics are still interested in sports,'' said John Gaines, director of undergraduate admissions. Mr. Gaines slipped in that its academic competitor Washington University in St. Louis is only Division III. ''We always make sure we throw in a few crowd shots of people wearing black and gold'' during presentations. Imagine, he is saying, ''calling yourself a Commodore.''
Or calling yourself a Cornhusker. A few years ago, the ''Big Red Welcome'' for new University of Nebraska students began including a special treat: the chance to replicate the football team's famed ''tunnel walk,'' jogging along the snaking red carpet below Memorial Stadium, then crashing through the double doors onto the field (though without the 86,000 fans).
When Kirk Kluver, assistant dean for admissions at Nebraska's College of Law, set up his information table at recruiting fairs last year, a student in Minnesota let him know he would ''check out Nebraska now that you are part of the Big 10.'' He got the same reaction in Arizona. Mr. Kluver said applications last fall were up 20 percent, while law school applications nationally fell 10 percent.
PENN STATE'S new president, Rodney Erickson, announced last month that he wanted to lower the football program's profile. How is unclear. A Penn State spokeswoman declined to make anyone available to discuss the future besides releasing a statement from Dr. Erickson about seeking ''balance.''
What would balance really look like?
Duke officials pride themselves in offering both an excellent education and a stellar sports program.
Six years ago this spring, Duke experienced its own national scandal when three lacrosse players were accused of rape by a stripper hired for a party at the ''lacrosse house'' -- a bungalow since torn down. The charges were found to be false, but the episode prompted university leaders to think hard about the relationship between academics and athletics.
Kevin M. White, the athletic director, now reports directly to the president of Duke. It was part of structural changes to more healthily integrate athletics into university life, said James E. Coleman Jr., a law professor who is chairman of the faculty athletics council and was chairman of the committee that investigated the athletes' behavior. (Vanderbilt made an even stronger move in 2008, disbanding the athletics department and folding it into the student life division.) Sitting in his office on Duke's Durham, N.C., campus, Dr. Coleman set his lunch tray on a mountain of papers and explained the challenges. He calls sports ''a public square for universities'' but also acknowledges how rising commercialism comes with strings that ''have become spider webs.''
A 2008 report by the athletics department, ''Unrivaled Ambition: A Strategic Plan for Duke Athletics,'' praises the K-Ville bonding experience and the ''identity and cohesion'' of the rivalry with U.N.C. as it describes in stressful language the facilities arms race, skyrocketing coach salaries and the downside of television deals.
''We no longer determine at what time we will play our games, because they are scheduled by TV executives,'' it laments, going on to complain about away games at 9 p.m. ''Students are required to board a flight at 2 a.m., arriving back at their dorms at 4 or 5 a.m., and then are expected to go to class, study and otherwise act as if it were a normal school day.'' And: ''our amateur student-athletes take the field with a corporate logo displayed on their uniform beside 'Duke.' ''
''The key thing is to control the things you can control and make sure the athletic program doesn't trump the rest of the university, as it has in some places,'' Dr. Coleman said. ''These presidents have to do more than pay lip service to this notion of balance between athletics and academics.'' He suggests that elevating academic standards for athletes is one way to assert university -- not athletic department -- control over programs.
He has also tried to foster rapport between faculty members and the athletic department. ''The difficulty is having faculty understand athletics,'' he said. ''Both sides need to cross lines. Otherwise, it becomes these two silos with no connection.'' Last month, Dr. Coleman hosted a lunch that brought together Mr. White, athletics staff members and professors on his committee. He's also revamping a program to match faculty members with coaches, and sends them sports-related articles to bone up on issues.
Pointed questions about oversight of its athletic program were raised at Penn State's faculty senate meeting last month, and faculty involvement is the subject of a national meeting of the Coalition on Intercollegiate Athletics at the University of Tulsa this weekend. John S. Nichols, the group's co-chairman and professor emeritus at Penn State, says professors typically ignore the many issues that swirl around sports and influence the classroom. His list includes decisions about recruiting and admissions, and even conference realignments. Starting in 2013, the Big East will stretch over seven states, meaning not just football and basketball players but all student athletes -- and some fans -- will be making longer trips to away games. Dr. Nichols says it is time to ''put some checks in place'' on uncontrolled growth of athletics ''or consider a different model.''
To be sure, efforts to rehabilitate major college sports are not new. Amid much debate, an N.C.A.A. plan to raise scholarship awards by $2,000 was being reviewed this month. Some have seen it as the athletes' due, for the money they bring in, and others as pay for play; some colleges have complained they can't afford it.
Many are skeptical that reining in college sports is even possible; the dollars are simply too attractive, the pressures from outside too great. Mr. White said that it was naive ''to think we will ever put the toothpaste back in the tube.'' He added, ''There is an oversized, insatiable interest in sports, and college sports is part of that.''
But some decisions are in university hands.
Despite Duke's ascent to basketball royalty, Cameron Indoor Stadium -- built in 1940, renovated in the 1980s and at 9,300 seats one of the smallest venues for a big-time program -- still gives thousands of the best seats to students. At many large programs, courtside seats and luxury boxes go to boosters. But ''outsiders with money,'' Dr. Coleman said, can make demands and change the way the team fits in with a university. ''We could easily double the size of our basketball stadium and sell it out,'' he said. ''That will never happen. If it does, you will know Duke has gone over to the dark side.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the effect of big-time sports on college life misstated part of the name of an honor society that has 17 members from Ohio State. It is the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, not the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUCKEYE NATION: Unbridled fan enthusiasm reigns in the stands at Ohio State University games (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN STROHMEYER/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED/GETTY IMAGES) (ED22)
K-VILLE: This is not Occupy Duke. It's annual tenting outside Cameron Indoor Stadium for the best seats at a basketball game. Below, students hold their spot for tickets, and even squeeze in some studying. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPORTING NEWS VIA GETTY IMAGES
TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED23)
MIGHTY DUCKS: A new University of Oregon study suggests an academic cost to fandom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE DYKES/GETTY IMAGES) (ED24)
CORNHUSKING: New University of Nebraska students mimic the football team's ''tunnel walk.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG CHANDLER/UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS)
BRANDING: Imagine ''calling yourself a Commodore.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE ROBBINS/GETTY IMAGES) (ED25) CHARTS: Big Sports Spenders: Football and basketball programs have become a bigger part of the college experience over the last two decades, thanks to greater spending and more television coverage. (Sources: Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics
 ESPN) (E24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); GRADUATION RATES (70%); WRITERS (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); ACADEMIC TENURE (66%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



931 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL QUALITY CONTROL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: The Money Traps In U.S. Health Care

BYLINE: By PHILIP M. BOFFEY

 BODY:
Why does an appendectomy in Germany cost roughly a quarter what it costs in the United States? Or an M.R.I. scan cost less than a third as much, on average, in Canada?
Americans continue to spend more on health care than patients anywhere else. In 2009, we spent $7,960 per person, twice as much as France, which is known for providing very good health services. And for all that spending, we get very mixed results -- some superb, some average, some inferior -- compared with other advanced nations. Why this is true isn't easily answered.
Health reform is supposed to control costs, but there is no simple avenue of attack. Our aging population has played a role in driving up medical costs, but Germany, Italy and Japan have much bigger percentages of elderly people while spending much less per capita on health care. 
The spread of health insurance, which shields patients from price sensitivity, has played a role in driving up our spending. But almost all other advanced industrial nations cover virtually everyone, while we leave 50 million uninsured.
Administrative costs are high here -- no surprise given the hordes of clerks and accountants needed to deal with insurance paperwork. And technological advances, which are sometimes highly beneficial and sometimes not, often cost a lot more than standard treatments. (Surprisingly, American doctors lag far behind their counterparts abroad in using electronic health records, which can help avoid costly errors and duplications.) Insurance companies' profits and the high pay of their executives may account for some of the cost differences with other countries, but there is little good data on this.
A recent report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a 34-member group that includes the most advanced industrial nations, concluded that spending is high here partly because the prices charged by American doctors and hospitals are higher than they are anywhere else.
The International Federation of Health Plans, in its 2010 comparative price report, documented just how large the price differential can be for a wide range of services. While it's difficult to get data that is truly comparable from one country to another, the trends show Americans paying a lot more than people in other countries for the same services.
Measuring how effectively we spend health care dollars is hugely complicated. But cross-national surveys offer some clues. We're good at giving patients what they want -- if they ask for it. So Americans can see a specialist or get elective surgery a lot faster than patients in other countries, according to surveys by the Commonwealth Fund. The surveys also show that Americans are more likely than people in other advanced nations to experience medical errors or problems with uncoordinated care, and to forgo care because it's too expensive.
The O.E.C.D. report rates America at or near the top for survival rates in breast and colorectal cancer but slightly below average in cervical cancer. We rank in the middle of the pack in the percentage of heart attack patients who die in the hospital within 30 days of admission. And we have alarmingly high rates of hospital admissions for asthma and uncontrolled diabetes -- an indicator that many patients don't have good primary care, which can prevent costly hospital stays.
Most other advanced countries hold down prices through government regulations. We set prices in Medicare and Medicaid programs. But in private markets, reform has to rely on other means, such as financial incentives for providers to curb costs by coordinating care and improving efficiency. One demonstration program significantly reduced spending by bundling payments to hospitals and doctors to cover all in-patient services connected with heart bypass surgeries.
The idea at the heart of the reform law is that such strategies, once proved effective, could be carried out on a large scale -- and eventually bring total spending under control.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2012

 CORRECTION:
A table accompanying this article contains an overly high estimate from the International Federation of Health Plans for the cost of cataract surgery in the United States. The group based its original estimate on in-patient hospital costs, while a later estimate was based solely on charges in outpatient facilities where virtually all cataract surgery is now done. The federation says the average cost for cataract surgery in late 2010 was $3,161, not $14,764.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Comparison Shopping (Source: International Federation of Health Plans)
Measuring Results (Source: Commonwealth Fund (wait times)
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); AGING TRENDS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); AGING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012



932 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 968 words

 BODY:
In ''What Happened to Baby Annie?'' -- on the cover of Metropolitan last week -- Jeffrey E. Singer and Corey Kilgannon explored the case of Li Hangbin and Li Ying, a Chinese immigrant couple charged in the death of their 70-day-old daughter. Prosecutors say the infant was abused; supporters say the parents are the victims; and commenters on NYTimes.com disagreed adamantly over whom to believe. A sampling of their responses is below.
Readers also commented on Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, about the enduring economic and social woes of Brownsville, Brooklyn. 
These two aren't ''struggling immigrants.'' They're illegal aliens who are breaking the law by their mere presence in this country. I'm sorry, but ''cultural differences'' and ''language barriers'' are no excuse for shaking an infant to death. That doesn't fly in any culture nor in any language. I don't feel like hosting them at Rikers for 25 years on my tax dime, and then setting them free to stay in this country. Deport them now.
Daisy
Boston, MA
The answer to this case lies in genetic testing. Osteogenesis impefecta (O.I.) is one of those diseases you learn in medical school where one can easily mistake it for child abuse. It is a rare disease, but parents of babies with O.I. often get accused of child abuse. If you attempt CPR on a baby with O.I., you will have plenty of fractures that will mimic child abuse. It is sad that this family had to endure such trials. docinny
NY, NY
What a horrible situation.
Both the legal and criminal justice systems of the United States are broken.
These poor people were caught up in mechanisms they did not understand.
Both systems failed them.
After all of this time, why have there been no medical tests?
Why were they automatically assumed ''guilty''?
What ever happened to innocent until proven guilty?
The entire situation is a travesty of justice.
Pamela McGhee
New York, NY
Just how difficult it could be for a Chinese immigrant to communicate to authority figures is truly hard for you to imagine, if you do not have the same perspective or live the life of the people at the periphery of the society. These are people with no means and no proper channel of communication. For them, it is simply scary on multiple levels, even ones beyond our imagination.
remet23
New Brunswick, NJ
Are you kidding me? This child's skull was broken nearly in half. The parents and the aunt were the only ones there. If the parents didn't do it, then the aunt had to be the villain. The story the father gives makes no sense whatsoever. The father is guilty and the mother is guilty by association. There is no other explanation.
Sherron Teal
North Carolina
After intervening in Hangbin and Ying's case for a year and after getting ourselves exposed to and educated by the S.B.S.-related literature, to date, we have seen the Lis' case as not individual but a systemic problem.
No one would ever deny the horrifying injuries that caused baby Annie's death. The A.D.A.'s thought someone must have done it, so they surmised that Hangbin and Ying were the perpetrators. This is hypothesis, not proof.
The A.D.A.'s inflammatory description of the horrifying scenario easily provoked an intense emotional response in people who lent their ears to the account. Such opinions are based on a combination of speculation, inference and reasoning beyond the relevant field of expertise and not on expert's specialized knowledge.
Michael Chu
Hangbin Li & Ying Li Rescue Committee
Very sad, all of it.
Julie
Ca.
Brownsville Blues
Brownsville has definitely improved. I would argue it has improved more than most of the yuppie hoods. It's still probably the worst Brooklyn neighborhood, but the impressive rate of improvement can't be denied.
Brownsville was absolutely horrible 20 years ago. Mass abandonment, four times today's crime rate, almost no retail and housing was virtually worthless.
Nowadays there's very little abandonment, the commercial streets are vibrant again, crime has plummeted and homes can go for 400k. The apartment buildings are rising again, with new construction everywhere. Immigrants, once scarce, are everywhere in Brownsville.
So I think it's a question of perspective. Is Brownsville still ''bad''? Yes, definitely. Is it massively improved? No question for those of us who remember the awful years.
Osito
Brooklyn, NY
My grandparents lived in Brownsville as I was growing up in other parts of Brooklyn in the '50s. Let's look at the past, though, through clear lenses: Brownsville was no great place then either. When I came of draft-eligible age in 1962, somehow I wound up in a Draft Board centered in Brownsville. The great advice I got then was ''Don't ever change your Draft Board wherever you may live.'' Why? Because they always fill their quotas with volunteers; and if they don't, they have plenty of high school dropouts to draw from. I think Brownsville may have had some interesting times in the '20s and '30s, but it's all downhill after World War II.
Michael Lindsay
St. Joseph, MI
Of course in the 1930s, ''few Brownsville families managed to join the ranks'' of the city's middle class; the country was deep in the throes of the Great Depression.
It was after WWII that the rise of the middle class there occurred. And, when black families started moving in -- and buying homes -- they were headed by working men who wanted the same things for their kids as we who were Jewish.
It was when the city started using the neighborhood as a dumping ground for its problems -- a long train ride to Manhattan -- that things really changed. The white, mostly Jewish, middle class moved out in droves. The city's neglect led to rioting in the mid-1960s.
When we moved in 1964, the days of movies at the Pitkin, Sutter and Ambassador Theaters were gone. The new kids saw them vanish. That is sad.
Alan Chaprack
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HEAD INJURIES (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (70%); GENETIC SCREENING (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



933 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Time to Stay Put

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
EIGHT years ago, after couch-surfing in faraway places, Ben Schulson called a friend who lived in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. His friend suggested that the footloose Mr. Schulson stay in his spare room, enticing him with the news that some ''cute girls'' shared the duplex downstairs.
On Mr. Schulson's first day there, at a backyard get-together, he met those girls. One of them, Beth Egbert, lived in the duplex with friends from Boston University.
A month later, having endured several floods in her basement bedroom, Ms. Egbert moved elsewhere in Greenpoint. A year and a half later, she helped Mr. Schulson search for his own rental. The one place he saw unaccompanied was a basement studio on Leonard Street. The rent was just $800 a month, in exchange for acting as superintendent, coordinating repairs and dealing with trash and recycling. 
''It was a very lucky find, with the cheapest rent in the world,'' Mr. Schulson said. The rental included what he wanted most: a big backyard.
''Ben called me excitedly and said he already signed and paid for it,'' Mrs. Schulson said. ''And when I walked through, I said, 'Oh, my God, if we ever get serious, I don't know about this guy.' ''
They did get serious. She reluctantly joined him in the basement place two years later, and they expanded into an adjacent windowless storage room. ''Beth wanted to move out since the day she got there,'' said Mr. Schulson, 38, a graduate of the University at Albany who works as the technology manager for a trading firm.
''The rent was super-cheap and we got what we paid for,'' said Mrs. Schulson, 31, who works in marketing for a publishing company. ''The Acela train that runs from D.C. to Boston has a larger bathroom.''
She disliked the trash duties, too. Some neighbors didn't know how to recycle, she said. ''Ben would literally pick through the trash to sort things, and when he was on business trips I would have to do it.''
She assumed they would move before their wedding in summer 2009. But moving was pushed back until after the wedding and then until after a honeymoon trip around the world -- both events having been made possible, in part, by the low rent.
''We were always finding a reason not to move,'' Mrs. Schulson said. ''It was always, one more summer with the backyard.''
Ah, the backyard. Mr. Schulson loved it. He planted vegetables and herbs in pots. The couple barbecued on their gas grill and swung on their hammock.
But their dank apartment flooded one time too many. Last year, after suffering through plumbing problems from above, ''I said, if we don't move now, I don't know if we will ever escape,'' Mrs. Schulson said.
They formulated a plan, aiming to buy a two-bedroom in the low $400,000s and stay there for around five years. That way, if they had a child, there would be room.
''We went into what we lovingly termed financial lockdown,'' Mrs. Schulson said. Dining out was limited to special occasions. A moratorium was declared on cabs.
His requirement was outdoor space. Hers was a bathtub. ''Every Friday night we would have a planning meeting for the weekend, and we would map out the open houses,'' Mrs. Schulson said. There was so much new construction in the area, especially in adjacent Williamsburg, that there was lots to see.
For months, they spent every weekend on the hunt. ''We tromped around the world,'' Mr. Schulson said, ''so tromping around neighborhoods was fun for us.''
They contacted David Kazemi, a vice president of Bond New York, who was advertising a duplex with outdoor space. The place was too big and too expensive, so Mr. Kazemi showed them a ground-floor two-bedroom with about 600 square feet in a six-unit condominium building on Guernsey Street in Greenpoint. It had a bathtub. The backyard was gigantic. The price was $419,000.
They were interested. But an all-cash buyer got there first.
The couple kept looking. Other places lacked sufficient outdoor space. The price range inched up.
The Factory Lofts in Williamsburg, a converted warehouse building, had two-bedrooms in the $600,000s, beyond their price range.
Nevertheless, ''we made the mistake of going into the three-bedroom duplex,'' listed at $875,000. It had a terrace and was beautifully staged. ''That made me want a place we could live in long term,'' Mrs. Schulson said. (The place later sold for $850,000.)
They started to worry about the stagnant economy. What if they were trapped in a small space with a couple of children, unable to sell?
On North Seventh Street, a duplex with two bedrooms, convertible to three, with both a yard and a balcony, was listed at $639,000. The Schulsons went there intending to negotiate down. ''In our delusional brains,'' Mrs. Schulson said, ''we didn't think that was impossible until we saw the place.''
It was beautiful, with plenty of closet space, and situated in prime Williamsburg. Others loved it, too. The Schulsons offered $671,000, the third-highest bid. ''I was thankful that at least we placed,'' Mrs. Schulson said. (The apartment sold for $710,000.)
Finding the right apartment was proving so difficult that the Schulsons decided that they didn't want to have to do it again in five years. The five-year plan became a 30-year plan. ''If we had more of a 'family settled down' budget than a 'going out all the time' budget,'' a bigger, more permanent place was within their means, Mrs. Schulson said.
Meanwhile, back at Guernsey Street, the cash offer had fallen through. Now, his thinking governed by the 30-year plan, Mr. Schulson suggested they make an offer not only on the ground-floor two-bedroom they had liked so much, but also on the similar one above it. His idea was to rent out the upstairs apartment and combine the places at some future date.
''We brought an architect in,'' Mr. Kazemi recalled, ''and he said it was O.K. to duplex the apartment.''
So the Schulsons bought the apartments for $419,000 and $379,000. Monthly charges for each are around $300. The financial lockdown continues, though not as intensely as before.
They arrived in the fall and found an upstairs tenant, who pays $2,700 a month. The yard doesn't get as much sun as the old yard did. ''I don't know how much I am going to be able to grow,'' Mr. Schulson said, ''but I'll make it work.'' They are deciding how to furnish the interior, which is only nine feet wide.
At their old building, plenty of friends were interested in assuming the super's position, even though the rent for the apartment rose to $1,000. A relative of an upstairs neighbor, who knew how to recycle, got lucky.
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Factory Lofts in Williamsburg, a three-bedroom was too expensive. Sigh.
On North Seventh Street, Williamsburg, a higher bidder triumphed.
A two-bedroom on Guernsey Street in Greenpoint had a large yard.
 Ben and Beth Schulson also bought the unit overhead, with a duplex in mind. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (84%); PUBLISHING (50%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



934 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Changing Science Of Movie-ology

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS and A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
IN 1958 the writer and independent filmmaker Jonas Mekas contacted Jerry Tallmer, an editor and critic at The Village Voice and asked why the paper, which had started three years earlier, didn't have a regular movie column. Mr. Tallmer invited Mr. Mekas to write one. He did. His first movie column that year inaugurated The Voice's extraordinary, decades-long commitment to deeply personal, often political, always partisan, sometimes cranky and wonderfully crazed film criticism written by Andrew Sarris, Molly Haskell, Amy Taubin, Georgia Brown and David Edelstein, among many others, a tradition that effectively came to an end this month, when that paper's longtime senior film critic, J. Hoberman, was laid off and told that his position was being eliminated. 
Given the anything-goes reality of the Internet, where thousands of blogs bloom, it can be hard to overestimate The Voice's critical place in the journo-ecosystem back in the day. Started by a triumvirate that included Norman Mailer, The Voice was a much welcomed if also sometimes wildly reviled counterbalance to New York's establishment media, the dean of what became known as alternative weeklies. Its film coverage was crucial to that countercultural identity, with Mr. Mekas initially leading the charge and Mr. Sarris, who introduced the auteur theory to American audiences, soon joining him. Writing about the avant-garde and the mainstream with equal intelligence, wit and high style, Mr. Hoberman bridged the critical traditions his predecessors had carved out.
At The Voice it was possible to believe that intellectual work was a form of real and effective political activism and that resistance to the machine (Hollywood included) was not only possible, but also necessary. For Voice writers, a movie was never only a movie: it was a way of seeing, living in, understanding and, yes, even changing the world. A prolific author and influential teacher, Mr. Hoberman had a reach that went beyond The Voice, which, already weakened (by the Internet, Sept. 11, its owners) continued to lose its mojo, identity and relevance after it was bought by the New Times newspaper chain in 2005. Since then the chain, renamed Village Voice Media, has suffered the same economic woes endured throughout the industry, with the film department taking repeated hits.
Now without portfolio Mr. Hoberman plans to keep writing and teaching. We caught up with him by e-mail.
MANOHLA DARGIS In one of Jonas Mekas's first columns for The Voice he wrote that ''every breaking away from the conventional, dead, official cinema is a healthy sign.'' There was an activist element to his rhetoric, and soon after he started writing for The Voice he decided that it wasn't enough to be a critic, he had to become, as he put it, a near-midwife, so he could hold and protect ''all the beautiful things that I saw happening in cinema and that were either butchered or ignored by my colleague writers and by the public.'' He was fighting, to borrow the title of a book on him, to free the cinema. Taking a similar long view of your own work, what did you come to see as your role or even mission at The Voice?
J. HOBERMAN Jonas was no longer at The Voice when I started reviewing in late 1977, but he'd been important to me both as a reader and a filmgoer. I saw myself following his example, and also creating a beat. In addition to the avant-garde there were many things that the paper's two established critics, Andrew Sarris and Tom Allen, were just not that interested in covering -- documentaries, independent cinema, museum shows and most foreign films.
To the degree I thought about my role, I saw myself as a journalist (reporting on movies people might not otherwise know about) and as someone contributing to something I'd call, after Jonas's magazine, ''film culture.'' On succeeding Sarris as lead critic in 1988 I continued what I saw as a Voice tradition -- emphasizing work I felt significant, regardless of its commercial clout or mass appeal.
A. O. SCOTT In the '60s and '70s that ''film culture'' was in many ways understood to be a counterculture, a set of attitudes and commitments distinct from both the Hollywood mainstream and conventional ways of writing about movies. The Voice always saw itself as an oppositional paper, offering an irreverent, muckraking, avant-garde alternative to the establishment press. The language of opposition persists when people use phrases like ''independent film'' or ''traditional media,'' but obviously a lot has changed over the years. What is your sense of how the landscape -- of film culture and the larger media world within which it is embedded -- has shifted since you started?
HOBERMAN A subject for a book! I was around in the '60s but hit my stride as a critic in the '80s -- Reagan time -- when the study of film culture, a science of movie-ology, seemed as though it should be the central pursuit of the age. (That's now conventional wisdom, as when political pundits routinely read motion pictures as big social metaphors.) Even then, people were bemoaning the end of cinephilia. Movies had already been displaced.
Over the past 15 years the photographic basis of the medium has been eroded by digital image making, the traditional delivery system is changing, not just for cinema but for criticism, the audience is dwarfed by the audience for video games, and yet great things continue to be made. My last review for The Voice was about two terrific, totally different movies: Nuri Bilge Ceylan's ''Once Upon a Time in Anatolia'' and Ken Jacobs's ''Seeking the Monkey King.'' I couldn't have planned a more optimistic exit.
DARGIS I love both those movies. Yet when I write about that kind of work, I can feel as if I'm whispering into the wind, drowned out by the whirring of the mainstream cinema hype machine, which of course is kept nicely oiled by the entertainment media. I try to resist whining about the good old days -- though here I do need to point out that film as film is on the verge of extinction even if cinema is not -- but the mainstream media pay even less mind to serious cinema than it did. It's hard to imagine the kind of passionate debate about films like ''Last Year at Marienbad'' and even ''Blue Velvet'' going on for movies like ''Anatolia'' except in the more rarefied reaches of the blogosphere, which is good (sometimes) if also an index of the marginalization of serious cinema and the discussion about it.
HOBERMAN What you call ''whispering in the wind,'' I'd say is speaking through a powerful megaphone. Anyway, there's still room for novelty and potential for debate. Look at the fracas over ''The Tree of Life'' and ''Melancholia.'' It just goes to show that, although a great filmmaker like the Soviet master Andrei Tarkovsky was a minority taste at best among the critics of the '80s (check out his reviews), his epigones have succeeded in creating significant cine-scandals.
SCOTT I'm glad to hear you say that. I've been frustrated by the emergence of a conventional wisdom -- not limited to critics -- according to which movies have diminished in importance and the arguments about them have diminished in intensity since whenever the good old days are supposed to have been. This kind of nostalgia figured heavily in the flurry of writing about Pauline Kael occasioned by the 10th anniversary of her death and Brian Kellow's biography. But I wonder if you'd be willing to walk down memory lane for a moment and recall a particularly fierce debate of the past, and say something about what it meant at the time.
HOBERMAN Probably the biggest debate I was ever involved in was precipitated by my critique of Kael's ''Shoah'' pan. We had a heated exchange in the back row of the Broadway Screening Room. People seemed surprised to see us so worked up over a movie. She told me that I had made things hard for her at The New Yorker, and I said: ''What the hell are you talking about Pauline? You wrote the review!''
DARGIS I wish I had been there to witness that. The thing is, there is truth behind such yearning -- for film as film and for technical proficiency, you know, like sharply focused images. Some of my favorite movies each year are made or at least distributed by the studios. But they don't make as many great or even competent movies as they did. Just look at the films James Agee was championing and dismissing in a given column, as when he plowed through ''Life With Father,''''Thunderbolt,''''The Macomber Affair,''''Miracle on 34th Street'' and a couple other titles in a single 1947 week.
These days, by contrast, there seem to be five times the number of movies opening and quickly leaving, and also five times the dreck. Along these lines, Jim, you mentioned that cinema itself has changed in the past 15 years, and I wonder how your relationship with the object has also changed, perhaps as a consequence?
HOBERMAN For 30-odd years, looking at movies and writing (or talking) about them, was my job. It was fun but it was work. You have to keep up. It's too early to say how things will change for me now that I'm a civilian. I always loved old movies, and I still do. There are certain films that as a teacher, I watch almost every year -- early Chaplin, ''The Man With a Movie Camera,''''The Rules of the Game,'' ''In the Street,'' ''Pather Panchali,''''Vertigo,''''Flaming Creatures,''''Breathless'' -- and sitting there with a class, I get to see them again for the first time.
SCOTT To stay with that theme for a moment, what were some of your formative experiences of movies, the ones that started you on the path to becoming a critic?
HOBERMAN I didn't set out to be a critic. If anything I backed into it. I liked to write and I was deeply interested in movies. The first that really spoke to me was ''Dr. Strangelove,'' which I saw twice when I was 14; a year later ''Shoot the Piano Player'' was the first movie I really wanted to live. They were like sacred texts. ''Alphaville,'' a kind of synthesis, just blew my mind.
That was the first movie I wrote about (a single-spaced sheet for the Harpur Film Society, along with Mike Kuchar's ''Sins of the Fleshapoids''), trying to get a fix on what made it so great. After that I kept a notebook. Later I knew a bunch of underground filmmakers and cartoonists, I wanted to be part of something -- and it happened. My ideal reader was me at 16.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Firat Tanis in ''Once Upon a Time in Anatolia.'' left. Below, a scene from ''Shoah,'' a film that provoked a debate between J. Hoberman and Pauline Kael. Right, Isabella Rossellini and Dennis Hopper in ''Blue Velvet.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CINEMA GUILD
NEW YORKER FILMS
DE LAURENTIS GROUP/EVERETT COLLECTION)(AR14
 AR15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



935 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: State Laws on Unions

 BODY:
Should workers be compelled to join unions or pay dues? Readers debate ''right to work'' laws now being considered.
The Letter
To the Editor:
For the first time in more than 60 years, politicians are arguing with great fervor about ''right to work'' laws -- state laws that bar unions and employers from requiring that workers join unions or pay union dues without joining.
Currently 22 states have right-to-work laws, and Indiana's Legislature is now considering passing one, the first in a decade.
Beyond the hyperbole of employer and union groups are the two fundamental questions underlying right-to-work laws. 
Unions ask, ''Should workers who are covered by collective bargaining agreements be permitted to be 'free riders' and receive union protections and benefits without paying for them?'' And employers ask, ''Should workers be compelled to join or pay dues to organizations against their wishes?'' This is nothing less than a clash between the basic free-rider and freedom of association arguments.
Right-to-work laws are found in the states with the lowest union membership (such as Texas, Alabama and South Carolina), but it is not clear whether membership is low because there are right-to-work laws and unions are discouraged from organizing, or if there are right-to-work laws because membership is initially low and thus unions lack political clout in these states.
Unions argue that right-to-work laws mean less revenues in the form of members' dues. If it costs them about $1,500 to organize each new member, unions can't see any return on their organizing investment in right-to-work law states.
But employers claim that without right-to-work laws, unions would organize more members, and as wages increase, jobs would be lost.
It will not be surprising, as the Republican primaries move to South Carolina and Florida, to hear the candidates energetically promote more right-to-work laws and even a national right-to-work law.
GARY CHAISON Worcester, Mass., Jan. 17, 2012
The writer is a professor of industrial relations at the Graduate School of Management, Clark University.
Readers React
The fundamental question about ''right to work'' laws is whether or not we want to continue the downward plunge in the quality of life for middle-class Americans that has accompanied the de-unionization of the American work force.
Take a close look at who has been getting what since about the mid-1950s. That's roughly when the anti-worker laws adopted in the late 1940s -- and the tightly woven web of arcane anti-labor court and regulatory agency decisions that flow from those laws -- began to bite.
In the early 1950s more than a third of American workers in private industry belonged to unions. Today it's less than 7 percent and dropping. During that same period, real income for American workers adjusted for inflation has been declining, the number of workers without medical insurance and without pensions has been increasing, and the gap in income and wealth between the rich and everyone else in America has been exponentially increasing. In short, the American Dream has been evaporating.
Want to see the Dream disappear altogether? Pass more ''right to work'' laws. States with such laws tend to have lower household income, more workers without medical insurance and pensions, higher rates of workplace death and the lowest educational levels.
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. got it exactly right: ''We must guard against being fooled by false slogans, as 'right to work.' It provides no 'rights' and no 'works.' Its purpose is to destroy labor unions and the freedom of collective bargaining.''
JACK JOYCE Swans Island, Me., Jan. 18, 2012
The writer was president of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers from 1979 to 1999.
I was a dues-paying member of the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers for 38 years before retiring in 2007. I have seen firsthand how those teachers who chose not to become union members and pay dues benefited from the collective bargaining agreements that our union members had to make numerous sacrifices for, like going out on strike, being jailed and being beaten up on picket lines.
In our efforts to improve teachers' salaries, benefits and working conditions and students' educational opportunities, we lost months' worth of pay that would never be recouped, while nonunion members crossed our picket lines, collected their salaries and then enjoyed the fruits of our labor.
I believe that every person has the right not to join a labor union, whether in the private or public sector. What they don't have the right to do is reap the rewards of the gains made by union members through collective bargaining agreements without having had to pay any price of their own.
JACK STUTMAN Orlando, Fla., Jan. 19, 2012
Mr. Chaison's letter represents a fair framing of the key points of the labor freedom (right to work) debate. Here in Michigan we are watching carefully the proceedings in Indiana while executing a broad educational strategy to get Michigan to become the next labor freedom state.
Labor freedom means that unions are as free to make their case as workers are to make their choice. This is not anti-union, nor is it intended to be. It is pro-freedom, pro-liberty, pro-civil rights, pro-family, pro-investment, pro-jobs, and, in the end, pro-union. When unions shed their government protections and we unshackle ourselves from what is essentially government-sponsored labor overregulation, they will succeed in re-engineering their business model so that the proof of delivering value will be robust voluntary membership.
Both sides of this debate can present data and arguments to support their case. The most compelling argument for labor freedom is the right to choose to belong to a union, or not.
Labor freedom states have had the greatest job growth, greatest population growth, greatest rate of increase in disposable income (factoring in localized cost of living) and the greatest increase in union membership! Compulsory union states have experienced the greatest loss of population.
It is time to have this debate -- open, honest and transparent.
MIKE SHIRKEY Jackson, Mich., Jan. 18, 2012
The writer is a Republican state representative.
What is missing from this discussion is the concept of ''exclusivity.'' That means that once a union wins a collective bargaining election, it is the ''exclusive'' representative of all members of that unit, and no other union or individual has the legal right to represent them in collective bargaining matters.
In many other countries, workers are represented by more than one union, which creates other problems for employers since one union is always trying to outdo the other and there is no single entity that can speak for the workers.
Under our system, every member of the collective bargaining unit, whether he or she voted for the union or not, has a legal right to be fairly represented by the union in the administration of the contract. If the union fails to properly represent any worker, whether a member of the union or not, that worker can file a charge against the union under a ''duty of fair representation'' standard.
It seems only fair, then, that all workers should have an obligation to pay a reasonable fee for that representation, even if they choose not to join the union for whatever reason.
PAUL F. COLE Executive Director American Labor Studies Center Loudonville, N.Y., Jan. 18, 2012
Professor Chaison notes that the discussion over ''right to work'' laws centers on the questions of union objections to workers claiming the benefits of union representation without paying dues, along with the management claims of free association. But management also opposes one obvious solution -- to allow workers to organize ''members only'' unions that would only be required to represent voluntary dues-paying members.
The United Steelworkers took a bold but unsuccessful step in 2005 to do just this. It was supported by six other unions but opposed by the Bush administration, the Chamber of Commerce and other employer groups.
The union shop is based on the obligatory duty of fair representation of each worker in a bargaining unit. Every union steward knows this is a serious obligation, and nonmembers have successfully sued unions when they have not been given the equal (and sometimes very expensive) representation.
Employers' current position of opposing the union shop while also opposing unions organized on a members-only basis, without a requirement to represent nonmembers, is simply wrong.
KURT VORNDRAN Washington, Jan. 18, 2012
The writer works for a labor union of public employees.
The right-to-work laws now on the books in 22 states simply prohibit the firing of employees for refusal to pay dues or fees to a union that they never personally asked for in the first place, or no longer want.
As the National Right to Work Committee has long pointed out, the principal reason for adopting right-to-work laws is that the individual employee should not be forced, as a condition of holding a job, to support financially an organization that he or she sincerely believes acts contrary to his or her interests.
Forced-unionism apologists implicitly argue that union officials never act contrary to the interests of any employee, and any employee who says otherwise is a hypocritical ''free loader.'' This bespeaks a shockingly cynical and hostile assessment of employees in a country whose citizens voluntarily give away a higher share of their income to charities than citizens of any other country.
Forced-unionism apologists also ignore, or seek to explain away, data suggesting that the labor law regime they favor is economically harmful to workers. For example, from 2000 to 2010, aggregate real compensation (including wages, salaries, benefits and bonuses) for private-sector employees increased by over 11 percent in right-to-work states, but by less than 1 percent in the 28 forced-unionism states.
STAN GREER Newsletter Editor National Right to Work Committee Fairfax, Va., Jan. 19, 2012
The Writer Responds
I find it disappointing but not unexpected that the comments about ''right to work'' laws are so extreme.
Some, like Mr. Joyce, say that right-to-work laws, by prohibiting compulsory union membership and dues-paying, only hurt union members and working families striving to enter the middle class. At the other extreme are those, like Mr. Shirkey, who want to protect workers' choice.
And it all seems so logical. For example, as a rationale for the case against right-to-work laws, Mr. Cole writes that if a union must represent all workers in a workplace equally and fairly, workers should at least pay for union representation, or find work elsewhere.
The arguments for and against right-to-work laws look to me like rehashed talking points -- brief, dramatic statements made to be faxed to media outlets. They leave crucial questions unanswered, or not even asked.
What exactly do right-to-work laws have to do with organizing, since they affect the status of workers after unions have successfully organized a workplace? Might right-to-work laws actually strengthen unions, since workers will have joined unions voluntarily and be more willing to participate in union affairs and run for office? And, finally, do workers join unions in right-to-work law states because they do not know that they are legally free not to join, or because they want to avoid the stigma of receiving union protection without paying for it, or because they believe in the values of unionism?
For the past 25 years, I have had student teams in my labor relations courses debate right-to-work laws. I am not surprised that a majority of the listening audience votes for ''undecided'' rather than ''for'' or ''against.'' It is a complex issue with no easy answers.
GARY CHAISON Worcester, Mass., Jan. 19, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTHER MEANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (94%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); WRITERS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (61%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



936 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; WESTCHESTER DINING TUCKAHOE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: For Beer Aficionados, The World on a String

BYLINE: By ALICE GABRIEL

 BODY:
ON a recent weeknight at Growlers Beer Bistro, where patrons are sometimes asked to seat themselves, an elderly couple had barely settled at a corner table when the host approached and asked if they had been helped. ''No,'' said the man.
''How long have you been waiting?'' the host asked. 
''Oh, five minutes,'' said the man, stretching the truth by four and a half minutes.
''Well, that's inexcusable,'' the host said. ''I'll send a waiter right over.'' And in a jiffy, a waiter was at their table. I don't know if the couple, who complained openly about the noise and never removed their winter coats, will ever return, but they certainly could not fault the service.
Growlers, which opened in October with one of the most impressive craft beer selections in the area, has some of the friendliest -- and most taxed -- waiters, bartenders and hosts I've encountered anywhere. It also has some darned good food.
Part of a regional trend, Growlers -- owned by Ciaran Cullen, the chef, Eric Lorberfeld and Jamie Villarie -- joins a new breed of pubs and taverns responding to economic uncertainty with affordable food and drink that nonetheless satisfy requirements for artisanal correctness. But stand warned: with its emphasis on imbibing and its harsh acoustics, Growlers is not for everyone. Diners looking for certain frills -- firm reservations, tablecloths, discreet replacement of flatware -- should read the fine print.
Growlers aggressively promotes connoisseurship (don't look for hot wings or Miller High Life). The beer list, printed in a throwback typewriter font, designates style, alcohol by volume, state or country of origin and price (for example, Brooklyn Monster Ale (English barley wine, 10.8 ABV, NY, $9); and Southern Tier Eurotrash Pilz (Czech pilsner, 5.5 ABV, NY, $7). Waiters are well versed -- in fact, steeped -- in beer lore, and it is worth seeking their advice (they happily encourage sampling).
The seasonal menu -- substantial snacks, hearty sandwiches and high-calorie sides -- is tailored with beer in mind. One of my favorite dishes was a rich gumbo made with rabbit, house-smoked chicken and andouille sausage, which paired nicely with the full-bodied Bear Republic Racer 5 (cask-conditioned IPA. 7.0 ABV, CA, $8). I also loved the All-American Tractor Toast, an open-face grilled cheese sandwich made with rough country bread, a swipe of mayonnaise and New York State Cheddar, which was a perfect match for the honey-and-spice Sixpoint Sweet Action (cream ale, 5.2 ABV, NY, $7).
We also liked the retro devils on horseback -- prunes stuffed with blue cheese, wrapped with fatty bacon, skewered with toothpicks and served on a tuft of greens. Smoky baby back ribs came with excellent sweet pink coleslaw and grilled cornbread (the latter could have been more moist). A no-nonsense mixed green salad with shallot vinaigrette was just right for the time and place.
The Growler burger, made with a beef, pork and veal blend, was a perfect medium rare. The rosemary chicken burger, with American cheese, rosemary garlic mayonnaise, arugula and roasted red peppers, was also tasty. Both, however, arrived on anemic, half-baked rolls -- Growlers should consider finding a better bun.
The one real misfire was a special, a pulled pork sandwich that had a weird chemical taste. The guest who ordered it was heartened, however, by the delicious pork and beans that came with it.
The restaurant's trademark Growler fries -- showered with bacon, parsley and Parmesan -- were hot and cold, literally. On one plate they were all but sizzling, on another, stone cold. The hot ones were everything fries should be.
As unpredictable as the fries is the scene itself, which can be almost serene on a weeknight and boisterous on a weekend. On a Friday night, we tried mightily to identify a few songs on the soundtrack, but the roar of the crowd -- especially the revelers at a communal table near the bar -- drowned it out.
Growlers has recently given in to grumbling and added a liquid dessert to the menu: a serendipitous blend of Wells Banana Bread Beer and Young's Double Chocolate Stout ($8). Beer floats are in the works.
Growlers Beer Bistro
25 Main Street
Tuckahoe
(914) 793-0608
www.growlersbeerbistro.com
WORTH IT
THE SPACE Modern tavern in a former railroad electrical plant. Industrial interior features a long, tall communal table, cowhide banquettes and lounge area; concrete floors, large windows and exposed ceilings amplify noise. Wheelchair access.
THE CROWD Mostly adult, some families (children eat free Saturdays and Sundays from 1 to 5 p.m.). Casual dress. Live music Wednesdays and Saturdays.
THE BAR Side-by-side televisions above a lively L-shaped bar. Beer is it: 17 on tap, and many more in cans and bottles. Growlers to go. Craft sodas. Short, appealing wine list. ''Hoppy'' hour, with $5 drafts, 4 to 7 p.m. weekdays.
THE BILL Snacks are $3 (for hot pretzel bread) to $13 (for sauteed mussels). Sandwiches are $9 to $14. Charcuterie and cheese plates are $13 to $28.
WHAT WE LIKED Devils on horseback; baby back ribs; pork and beans (special); gumbo with rabbit, smoked chicken and andouille sausage; tractor toast; Growler burger; Growler fries.
IF YOU GO Open Tuesday through Thursday, 4 p.m. to midnight; Friday, 4 p.m. to 1 a.m.; Saturday, 1 p.m. to 1 a.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m. to midnight (also open on Mondays in January). Parking is free in designated spots in adjacent commuter lots on weekends, and weekdays at designated times; metered parking free on Sunday and after 7 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOISTEROUS: Growlers Beer Bistro has a large craft beer selection and a seasonal menu with snacks, sandwiches and sides. At right are the Growler fries, with garlic, parsley, bacon and Parmesan cheese. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); MAMMALS (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



937 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Why Credit Downgrades Can Be Poor Predictors

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
THOUGH Wall Street is worried that the European debt crisis will worsen, the stock market barely budged when Standard & Poor's downgraded the credit ratings of several euro zone nations -- in the process stripping France, Austria and the euro zone's primary rescue fund of their AAA standing.
In fact, the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe index and the Standard & Poor's 500 index of domestic stocks both rose in the days immediately after the news. 
Surprised? Don't be. Historically, credit downgrades have been a lousy predictor of stock market performance.
When Moody's downgraded Japan in November 1998, for example, Japanese shares surged by more than 26 percent in the subsequent 12 months. When Canada lost its AAA credit rating in 1992, its equities gained 30 percent in the next year. And since the United States was taken down a notch by S.& P. last August, the S.& P. 500 has gained more than 9 percent.
This is not to say credit downgrades are a buy signal. It's just that analysts at the major rating agencies are reacting to the same news and information that the rest of the market has already seen. So downgrades are really a lagging indicator, says Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial.
''With little move in the stock or bond market on the news of the downgrades, it is clear that markets had already made the credit adjustments and are now recognizing improvement'' in the region, he says.
MARKET watchers note that while the rating agencies' views carry weight, they merely represent one opinion among many on Wall Street. ''I don't see why their voices should be louder than the rest of the voices in the wilderness,'' says James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
Indeed, when S.& P. downgraded United States' credit rating last year to AA+ from AAA, conventional wisdom said the move should make investors wary of Treasury debt, which in turn would push up the yield on 10-year Treasuries. Yet since the downgrade was announced on Aug. 5, the yield on 10-year Treasuries has actually fallen to 2.03 percent from 2.56 percent, a sign that global investors still view United States government debt as a haven.
Mr. Paulsen likens downgrades to interest rate moves by the Federal Reserve. ''By the time the Fed officially raises rates, the market will have fully discounted it,'' he says.
So instead of taking cues from the rating agencies, how should investors try to gauge the European crisis?
Mr. Paulsen says he prefers to rely on market indicators to judge whether angst over Europe is growing or shrinking. Among them are the performance of cyclical sectors of the economy versus defensive ones, and the so-called junk spread -- the difference in yields between risky high-yield bonds and safe Treasuries. Both indicators speak to the level of fear in the market.
Since last summer, the consumer discretionary sector (companies that make things households want, not need) has returned more than 13 percent, versus 8 percent for the more conservative consumer-staples sector. At the same time, the junk spread has narrowed modestly, which speaks to a growing sense in the market that even if Europe slips into recession, its effect on the domestic recovery will be modest.
Robert C. Doll, chief equity strategist at the investment manager BlackRock, says the simplest thing that investors can do is pay attention to European bond yields, especially those for debt issued by troubled nations like Italy.
On the day S.& P. downgraded Italy by two notches, to BBB+ from A, 10-year Italian bonds were paying 6.64 percent. Today, it's 6. 34 percent.
Simon Hallett, chief investment officer at the asset management firm Harding Loevner, says the real issue ''is about the health of companies in the region, not the health of the countries.''
And, on that count, the consensus among market analysts is reasonably positive. Despite growing fears that several countries in that region are in or near a recession, companies in the S.& P. 350 Europe index are still expected to enjoy earnings growth of nearly 10 percent this year, says Christine Short, senior manager at S.& P. Capital IQ .
Not only is that up from the 1 percent overall earnings growth that European companies had last year, it compares favorably with the 8 percent profit growth projected for domestic companies.
Of course, those are just estimates. And they're likely to change as the year progresses, so it's good to pay attention to them. They may be more important than those tarnished credit ratings.
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



938 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: The 21st Century Education

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE H. SUMMERS. 
Lawrence H. Summers is former president of Harvard University and former secretary of the Treasury. This essay is based on a speech Dr. Summers gave at The New York Times's Schools for Tomorrow conference.

 BODY:
A PARADOX of American higher education is this: The expectations of leading universities do much to define what secondary schools teach, and much to establish a template for what it means to be an educated man or woman. College campuses are seen as the source for the newest thinking and for the generation of new ideas, as society's cutting edge.
And the world is changing very rapidly. Think social networking, gay marriage, stem cells or the rise of China. Most companies look nothing like they did 50 years ago. Think General Motors, AT&T or Goldman Sachs.
Yet undergraduate education changes remarkably little over time. My predecessor as Harvard president, Derek Bok, famously compared the difficulty of reforming a curriculum with the difficulty of moving a cemetery. With few exceptions, just as in the middle of the 20th century, students take four courses a term, each meeting for about three hours a week, usually with a teacher standing in front of the room. Students are evaluated on the basis of examination essays handwritten in blue books and relatively short research papers. Instructors are organized into departments, most of which bear the same names they did when the grandparents of today's students were undergraduates. A vast majority of students still major in one or two disciplines centered on a particular department. 
It may be that inertia is appropriate. Part of universities' function is to keep alive man's greatest creations, passing them from generation to generation. Certainly anyone urging reform does well to remember that in higher education the United States remains an example to the world, and that American universities compete for foreign students more successfully than almost any other American industry competes for foreign customers.
Nonetheless, it is interesting to speculate: Suppose the educational system is drastically altered to reflect the structure of society and what we now understand about how people learn. How will what universities teach be different? Here are some guesses and hopes.
1. Education will be more about how to process and use information and less about imparting it. This is a consequence of both the proliferation of knowledge -- and how much of it any student can truly absorb -- and changes in technology. Before the printing press, scholars might have had to memorize ''The Canterbury Tales'' to have continuing access to them. This seems a bit ludicrous to us today. But in a world where the entire Library of Congress will soon be accessible on a mobile device with search procedures that are vastly better than any card catalog, factual mastery will become less and less important.
2. An inevitable consequence of the knowledge explosion is that tasks will be carried out with far more collaboration. As just one example, the fraction of economics papers that are co-authored has more than doubled in the 30 years that I have been an economist. More significant, collaboration is a much greater part of what workers do, what businesses do and what governments do. Yet the great preponderance of work a student does is done alone at every level in the educational system. Indeed, excessive collaboration with others goes by the name of cheating.
For most people, school is the last time they will be evaluated on individual effort. One leading investment bank has a hiring process in which a candidate must interview with upward of 60 senior members of the firm before receiving an offer. What is the most important attribute they're looking for? Not GMAT scores or college transcripts, but the ability to work with others. As greater value is placed on collaboration, surely it should be practiced more in our nation's classrooms.
3. New technologies will profoundly alter the way knowledge is conveyed. Electronic readers allow textbooks to be constantly revised, and to incorporate audio and visual effects. Think of a music text in which you can hear pieces of music as you read, or a history text in which you can see film clips about what you are reading. But there are more profound changes set in train. There was a time when professors had to prepare materials for their students. Then it became clear that it would be a better system if textbooks were written by just a few of the most able: faculty members would be freed up and materials would be improved, as competition drove up textbook quality.
Similarly, it makes sense for students to watch video of the clearest calculus teacher or the most lucid analyst of the Revolutionary War rather than having thousands of separate efforts. Professors will have more time for direct discussion with students -- not to mention the cost savings -- and material will be better presented. In a 2008 survey of first- and second-year medical students at Harvard, those who used accelerated video lectures reported being more focused and learning more material faster than when they attended lectures in person.
4. As articulated by the Nobel Prize-winner Daniel Kahneman in ''Thinking, Fast and Slow,'' we understand the processes of human thought much better than we once did. We are not rational calculating machines but collections of modules, each programmed to be adroit at a particular set of tasks. Not everyone learns most effectively in the same way. And yet in the face of all evidence, we rely almost entirely on passive learning. Students listen to lectures or they read and then are evaluated on the basis of their ability to demonstrate content mastery. They aren't asked to actively use the knowledge they are acquiring.
''Active learning classrooms'' -- which cluster students at tables, with furniture that can be rearranged and integrated technology -- help professors interact with their students through the use of media and collaborative experiences. Still, with the capacity of modern information technology, there is much more that can be done to promote dynamic learning.
5. The world is much more open, and events abroad affect the lives of Americans more than ever before. This makes it essential that the educational experience breed cosmopolitanism -- that students have international experiences, and classes in the social sciences draw on examples from around the world. It seems logical, too, that more in the way of language study be expected of students. I am not so sure.
English's emergence as the global language, along with the rapid progress in machine translation and the fragmentation of languages spoken around the world, make it less clear that the substantial investment necessary to speak a foreign tongue is universally worthwhile. While there is no gainsaying the insights that come from mastering a language, it will over time become less essential in doing business in Asia, treating patients in Africa or helping resolve conflicts in the Middle East.
6. Courses of study will place much more emphasis on the analysis of data. Gen. George Marshall famously told a Princeton commencement audience that it was impossible to think seriously about the future of postwar Europe without giving close attention to Thucydides on the Peloponnesian War. Of course, we'll always learn from history. But the capacity for analysis beyond simple reflection has greatly increased (consider Gen. David Petraeus's reliance on social science in preparing the army's counterinsurgency manual).
As the ''Moneyball'' story aptly displays in the world of baseball, the marshalling of data to test presumptions and locate paths to success is transforming almost every aspect of human life. It is not possible to make judgments about one's own medical care without some understanding of probability, and certainly the financial crisis speaks to the consequences of the failure to appreciate ''black swan events'' and their significance. In an earlier era, when many people were involved in surveying land, it made sense to require that almost every student entering a top college know something of trigonometry. Today, a basic grounding in probability statistics and decision analysis makes far more sense.
A good rule of thumb for many things in life holds that things take longer to happen than you think they will, and then happen faster than you thought they could. Think, for example, of the widespread use of the e-book, or the coming home to roost of debt problems around the industrialized world. Here is a bet and a hope that the next quarter century will see more change in higher education than the last three combined.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to remove an editing error. Derek Bok was not Lawrence Summers's immediate predecessor as president of Harvard. Dr. Bok first served from 1971 to 1991; Dr. Summers took office in 2001.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an essay last Sunday about education in the digital age referred incorrectly to Derek Bok. He served as president of Harvard until 1991, so he was not the immediate predecessor of Lawrence Summers, who took office in 2001. (Neil L. Rudenstine preceded Mr. Summers.)

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); MEN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CURRICULA (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (72%); LIBRARIES (67%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (56%); MARRIAGE (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012



939 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: The Dangerous Notion That Debt Doesn't Matter

BYLINE: By STEVEN RATTNER. 
A contributing opinion writer for The New York Times and a longtime Wall Street executive who was a counselor to the Treasury secretary.

 BODY:
WITH little fanfare, a dangerous notion has taken hold in progressive policy circles: that the amount of money borrowed by the federal government from Americans to finance its mammoth deficits doesn't matter.
Debt doesn't matter? Really? That's the most irresponsible fiscal notion since the tax-cutting mania brought on by the advent of supply-side economics. And it's particularly problematic right now, as Congress resumes debating whether to extend the payroll-tax reduction or enact other stimulative measures.
Here's the theory, in its most extreme configuration: To the extent that the government sells its debt to Americans (as opposed to foreigners), those obligations will disappear as aging folks who buy those Treasuries die off. 
If that doesn't seem to make much sense, don't be puzzled -- it doesn't. Government borrowing is still debt that must eventually be paid off, just as we were taught in introductory economics.
Failing to repay the debt would mean not only the ugliness of default but also depriving the next generation of whatever savings their parents parked in government bonds.
And remember that just a small fraction of Treasuries are owned by individual Americans. Institutions and many foreign entities own the rest and are not about to give up claims that they are owed.
The more realistic alternative of continuing to service that debt offers the unattractive eventual prospect of either higher taxes or sharp cutbacks in government programs, or both.
That problem is greatly compounded by the fact that the $10 trillion of debt that is held by investors represents only a fraction of the federal government's obligations and ignores an additional $46 trillion of commitments to Social Security and Medicare.
Of course every modern economy both tolerates and benefits from some amount of debt. But the United States has been on a binge, brought on by a toxic mix of spending increases and tax cuts that began with the Reagan tax cuts in the 1980s and were later turbocharged by those of President George W. Bush.
The figures are stark. In 1975, government debt per household was roughly equal to half of a typical household's annual income. Today, it's 1.7 times. Add entitlements, and the obligations would take a mind-boggling nine years of family income to pay off.
Even deficit hawks like me recognize that with the economy still barely above stall speed, now is hardly the moment for the government to slam on the fiscal brakes, debt or no debt.
So that means there's no realistic alternative to more debt. But we can reduce the adverse consequences by how we spend this borrowed money. There are two main forms of stimulus: one kind is channeled through tax cuts and then mostly spent, just like a strapped family that puts its monthly expenses onto a credit card. Alternatively, government can direct its resources toward long-term investments that earn a return; think roads and dams but also medical research and education.
At the moment, gridlock grips Washington, and about all that Congress has offered is a two-month cut in the payroll tax, which may help shake the economy out of the doldrums but provides little lasting benefit.
We could just as effectively throw borrowed hundred-dollar bills out of airplanes. About the only worse approach would be nothing at all.
Government's focus should shift toward investment. To do so, multiple challenges must be overcome.
First, unlike every company in America, the government doesn't keep its books in a way that highlights these important two categories, investment and consumption. As a result, Congress can't evaluate the long-term impact of its actions.
Second, the dark shadow of the Tea Party movement has made added spending -- the route for most new government investment -- taboo.
While public investment may take longer to unleash its positive forces, the case for it is compelling, in part because rising entitlement expenditures have crowded out government's investment activities.
In the early 1950s, government devoted about 1.2 percent of gross domestic product to infrastructure; by 2010, that amount had fallen to just 0.2 percent. Meanwhile, federal spending on research and development dropped from a high of nearly 2 percent in 1964 to 0.9 percent in 2009.
By contrast, Franklin D. Roosevelt's much-praised Works Progress Administration spent the equivalent of at least $1.5 trillion over eight years on projects that in New York City alone ranged from building La Guardia Airport to reroofing the New York Public Library to creating a lasting body of literary and artistic work.
I agree that short-term help for the economy combined with long-term deficit reduction is the right direction for budgetary policy.
But we also need to make every dollar of debt matter, and therefore we should be directing our efforts to lifting the economy toward programs that provide long-term benefit, not just a short-term burst of caffeinated energy.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Comparing Median Household Income ...
... To Every Household's Share of the National Debt ...
... And What Made It Spike
Neglecting Investment (Sources: Congressional Budget Office
Census Bureau
Sentier Research
National Science Foundation
 Bureau of Economic Analysis) (CHARTS BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BONDS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



940 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: They'll Say Anything

BYLINE: By PETER CONSTANTINE. 
Peter Constantine has translated works from German, Russian, French, modern Greek, ancient Greek, Italian, Albanian, Dutch, Slovene and other languages. He is the author of ''Japanese Street Slang.''

 BODY:
BABEL NO MORE
The Search for the World's Most Extraordinary Language Learners
By Michael Erard
Illustrated. 306 pp. Free Press. $25.99.
Among the most surprising qualities of ''Babel No More,'' Michael Erard's globe-trekking adventure in search of the world's virtuosos of language learning, is that a book dealing with language acquisition and polyglot linguistics can be so gripping. But indeed it is -- part travelogue, part science lesson, part intellectual investigation, it is an entertaining, informative survey of some of the most fascinating polyglots of our time.
How is it, Erard asks, that certain people are able to accumulate what for the average person is a daunting number of languages? What are the secrets of polyglots who can master 6, 26, 96 languages? What are their quirks and attitudes? Are their brains wired differently from ours? 
Erard, a journalist who writes frequently on language and whose previous book was ''Um . . . : Slips, Stumbles, and Verbal Blunders, and What They Mean,'' begins by visiting Bologna, Italy, the hometown of one of history's most distinguished polyglots, the 19th-century cardinal Giu/seppe Mezzofanti. The cardinal is said to have known 45, 50, 58 or even more languages, depending on whom you ask. Victorian travelers who met him at ecclesiastical banquets reported that he affably conversed in all directions with foreign visitors in languages ranging from French, German and Arabic to Algonquin and ''Californian.'' (Lord Byron, who challenged the cardinal to a multilingual contest of profanities, was not only summarily defeated but walked away from the contest having learned a number of new Cockney gibes.) No less a figure than Pope Gregory XVI, in an attempt to catch Mezzofanti out, orchestrated a prank in which he secretly gathered dozens of foreign seminarians and then unleashed them on the unsuspecting cleric, all of them addressing him loudly in a tangle of languages. With much aplomb, Mezzo/fanti took up the pontiff's challenge, answered them, and prevailed.
Mezzofanti is a beguiling character. Erard has combed through the cardinal's archives in Bologna for clues about his practices and proficiency, and ''Babel No More'' is, among other things, a quest to see what benefits Mezzofanti's strategies might offer us.
Erard is a ''monolingual with benefits,'' as he calls himself, ''more than a monoglot, much less than a polyglot.'' English is his native tongue, and he has learned Spanish, Chinese and Italian at varying levels of proficiency. Here he talks to several world specialists in polyglottery, asking simple but effective questions in an effort to define ''multilingual'' beyond, say, the definition in the American Heritage Dictionary: ''Using or having the ability to use several languages.'' How many languages does one have to speak to be considered a polyglot? (At least six seems the consensus.) What does it really mean to speak a language? Knowing a few phrases? Giving a cabdriver directions? Debating politics? Claire Kramsch, a linguist Erard consults, provides wise insight: ''Asking how many languages you know is only asking half the question. You should also ask, 'In how many languages do you live?' ''
Linguists warn Erard that some self-/proclaimed polyglots may say they speak any number of languages, when in fact most of them know only a few grammatical rules, and have only a smattering of ready words and phrases. True polyglots, we are told, find it difficult to say precisely how many languages they speak, since their many languages hover unavoidably at different levels of proficiency. And what does fluency mean? Does an American who has learned Polish as a second language need to be able to pass for a Pole in Warsaw to be considered fluent? As Erard notes, this is a feat very few can manage.
''Babel No More'' introduces the generation of polyglots who came after Mezzofanti, and some of today's foremost language gatherers. To Erard's surprise, he initially had a hard time tracking them down. The remarkable Erik Gunnemark, who could translate from 47 languages -- ''though for 20 of them he needed dictionaries'' -- died just before Erard managed to meet him. Ziad Fazah, once listed in Guinness World Records as speaking 56 languages, was crossed off Erard's list when, on a Chilean television show, he failed to understand even the simplest sentences that speakers of various languages said to him. (The Russian speaker asked, ''What day is today?'' This drew a blank.)
Eventually, traveling from Berkeley to Hyderabad, from Chihuahua to Dusseldorf, Erard does have success. One polyglot he meets, Alexander Arguelles, who lives in Berkeley ''on unemployment checks and Korean translation work,'' shows that anyone who hopes to achieve fluency in more than six languages must dedicate himself to the task rigorously -- in fact almost exclusively. Arguelles keeps his languages in shape by subjecting himself to an unforgiving schedule, keeping spreadsheets that record the hours and minutes he spends on each one. Arguelles ''tracks his linguistic progress through the hours as saints once cataloged their physical self-sacrifices,'' Erard writes. Of 4,454 hours of language study Arguelles did over a period of 456 days, he spent 456 hours on his native language, English, and also 456 on Arabic, and then a descending number of hours on the remaining 50 languages on his spreadsheet. Though his learning techniques may seem strange, they also appear to be effective. In one, called ''shadowing,'' students listen to language recordings on a portable player while briskly walking in a public place, gesticulating energetically as they shout out the foreign words and phrases they are listening to. Though one is bound to make a spectacle of oneself, this technique seems to help the beginner shed some of the self-consciousness connected with speaking a foreign language.
Eventually, in a section called ''Revelation: The Brain Whispers,'' Erard ventures into the field of neurolinguistics to see how the language prodigy's brain may be physiologically different from the average one. We are presented with a wide spectrum of neurological information that aims to pinpoint the cognitive abilities involved in learning languages, and the areas of the brain that jump into action when language comes into play. Erard doesn't shy from controversial questions: Are there links between Asperger's and hyperpolyglottery? Are most polyglots left-handed, musical men who can't drive? He also sets out to find the brain of Emil Krebs (1867-1930), a German hyperpolyglot who was said to know some 65 languages. (He tracks it down at the University of Dusseldorf, and it reveals many secrets.)
To me, Erard's experiences in India were particularly interesting. There he met polyglots from families and communities that are ethnically and linguistically mixed, and who therefore speak many languages out of necessity rather than an urge to accumulate. This leads him to distinguish between the multilingual and the hyperpolyglot, or the purely acquisitive language learner. ''For multilinguals, learning languages is an act of joining society,'' he writes. ''There's no motive, no separable 'will to plasticity' that's distinct from what it means to be part of that society.'' But ''being a hyperpolyglot means exactly the opposite. The hyperpolyglot's pursuit of many languages may be a bridge to the rest of the world, but it walls him off from his immediate language community.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY IAN ADELMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); LINGUISTICS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); HIKING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WRITERS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); RELIGION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (70%); UNITED STATES (51%)

TITLE: Babel No More: The Search for the World's Most Extraordinary Language Learners (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



941 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; NOTE BOOK EQUITY; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: 1% Education

BYLINE: By NEAL GABLER. 
Neal Gabler is a professor in the M.F.A. program at Stony Brook Southampton, part of the State University of New York.

 BODY:
IT has been a populist winter. As Occupy Wall Street needles America's financial sector over the country's economic imbalance, it also focuses attention on another issue that helps feed that imbalance: educational inequality.
Just as the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans gobble up a disproportionate share of the nation's economic resources and rejigger our institutions to funnel them benefits and power, so too do our educational 1 percent suck up a disproportionate share of academic opportunities, and threaten to reconfigure academic culture so that it both mimics and serves their values.
Pointedly, the Occupy Harvard news release announcing its formation read: ''We want a university for the 99%, not a corporation for the 1%.''
Good luck with that! 
Who are these academic 1 percenters? To a large extent, they are the children of the economic 1 percent -- children of privilege who have been given every chance to excel and often do. They attend private schools and summer camps, take music lessons, get extensive SAT tutoring, land prestigious internships, take trips overseas and generally do what the less affluent cannot afford to do.
Their educational dominance culminates with competition for spaces at the best schools, which has never been stiffer. Of the 1.6 million high school seniors who took the SATs last year, roughly 30,000, or 0.2 percent, will end up in the freshmen classes of the country's 20 highest-rated universities. Superachievers get the lion's share of slots in the Ivy League, Stanford, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other outstanding universities. As a result, they dominate the Rhodes, Marshall and other prestigious scholarships. They get catapulted into the most selective professional and graduate schools. And they land the highest-paying jobs, becoming, if not the next generation's 1 percent, at least its 5 percent.
Many elite institutions are attempting to redress the economic imbalance with generous financial aid -- Harvard, for example, gives students with family income below $65,000 a free ride, and the number of freshmen receiving low-income Pell grants has climbed to 18 percent this academic year compared to 12 percent five years ago. But that's still well below the nearly 27 percent of American households with poverty-level incomes of less than $25,500.
Even with economic outreach, the vast majority of students at the best schools are likely to be wealthy, well-appointed young people groomed and professionalized at an early age precisely so they would impress admissions officers. Most low-income and even middle-income students cannot meet the academic and experiential benchmarks that elite schools set.
Indeed, there are very few poor superachievers.
The emphasis on personal achievement has done more than turn the admissions process into a race to rack up resume points; more important, to the extent that elite colleges set the pace, it is turning the educational culture into one that stresses individual perfection instead of one that stresses social improvement. Because graduate schools and the best jobs often require extraordinary credentials, students must pour their energies into their own ambitions and accomplishments. And schools encourage it.
Some may see this obsession with perfection as the culmination of a long trend; tiger moms have been pushing their children to be intellectual decathletes for generations. But it may actually be a reversal of an even longer trend. At the turn of the last century, the influential philosopher John Dewey saw education as a democratizing force not just in its social consequences but in its very process. Dewey believed that education and life were inextricably bound, that they informed each other. Education wasn't just something you did in a classroom to earn grades. It was something you lived.
The principle gained force in the 1960s, when students demanded that education be more relevant -- this was the period when African-American studies and women's studies entered the curriculum -- and for all the criticism that those renegades have endured in the decades since, they may not have been so nutty after all.
There is a big difference between a culture that encourages engagement with the world and one that encourages developing one's own superiority.
The former promotes a sense of commitment; the latter has the danger of rewarding students for collecting as many experiences as they can without stopping to explore -- like tourists who pride themselves on how many stickers they can slap on their luggage.
Focus on community service has never been greater, and many of us know parents who boast that their teenagers helped build a clinic in Botswana or taught schoolchildren in Central America during spring vacation. But motives matter, and such casual experiences can be empty ones if they turn what could be real social involvement into personal aggrandizement. (Look what I did!)
More, 1 percent education may make students risk-averse. Though educators are fond of saying you learn from failure, with today's stakes, the best students know you cannot really afford to fail. You can't even afford minor missteps. That is one of the lessons of 1 percent education: 1 percenters must always succeed.
Finally, a culture that rewards big personal accomplishments over smaller social ones threatens to create a cohort of narcissists. I've talked to graduate school applicants who fret that, no matter what else they have done, they won't be admitted because they don't have a passel of publications. I've talked to medical school applicants who worry about their choice to volunteer at a local hospital over working in an important cancer research lab. In another illustration of academic hyperactivity: 255 of the 1,015 students in Harvard's Kennedy School of Government are simultaneously pursuing a second degree -- be it in medicine, law or business.
One of my student assistants at the Kennedy School, where I served a fellowship last semester, confessed to me that he and his classmates were constantly being told that they were the best of the best, which pressures them to prove it by pursuing the sorts of activities and research that wins honors. It is not only narcissism we have to worry about; it is solipsism.
In the end, 1 percent education is as much a vision of life as it is a standard of academic achievement -- a recrudescence of social Darwinism disguised as meritocracy. Where the gap at the country's best schools was once about money -- who could afford to attend? -- now there is the pretense that it is mostly about intelligence and skill. Many 99 percenters are awed by the accomplishments of 1 percenters, especially as the gap between rich and poor in SAT scores and college completion widens.
Whatever this does to education, it also undermines the underpinnings of the social contract.
The danger isn't just that people who are born on third base wind up thinking they hit a triple; the danger is that everyone else thinks those folks hit triples. One percent education perpetuates a psychology of social imbalance that is the very antitheses of John Dewey's dream.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKKI ANSIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%); FAMILY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



942 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; SUNDAY REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Do Drones Undermine Democracy?

BYLINE: By PETER W. SINGER. 
The director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution and author of ''Wired for War: The Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century.''

 BODY:
Washington
IN democracies like ours, there have always been deep bonds between the public and its wars. Citizens have historically participated in decisions to take military action, through their elected representatives, helping to ensure broad support for wars and a willingness to share the costs, both human and economic, of enduring them.
In America, our Constitution explicitly divided the president's role as commander in chief in war from Congress's role in declaring war. Yet these links and this division of labor are now under siege as a result of a technology that our founding fathers never could have imagined.
Just 10 years ago, the idea of using armed robots in war was the stuff of Hollywood fantasy. Today, the United States military has more than 7,000 unmanned aerial systems, popularly called drones. There are 12,000 more on the ground. Last year, they carried out hundreds of strikes -- both covert and overt -- in six countries, transforming the way our democracy deliberates and engages in what we used to think of as war. 
We don't have a draft anymore; less than 0.5 percent of Americans over 18 serve in the active-duty military. We do not declare war anymore; the last time Congress actually did so was in 1942 -- against Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. We don't buy war bonds or pay war taxes anymore. During World War II, 85 million Americans purchased war bonds that brought the government $185 billion; in the last decade, we bought none and instead gave the richest 5 percent of Americans a tax break.
And now we possess a technology that removes the last political barriers to war. The strongest appeal of unmanned systems is that we don't have to send someone's son or daughter into harm's way. But when politicians can avoid the political consequences of the condolence letter -- and the impact that military casualties have on voters and on the news media -- they no longer treat the previously weighty matters of war and peace the same way.
For the first 200 years of American democracy, engaging in combat and bearing risk -- both personal and political -- went hand in hand. In the age of drones, that is no longer the case.
Today's unmanned systems are only the beginning. The original Predator, which went into service in 1995, lacked even GPS and was initially unarmed; newer models can take off and land on their own, and carry smart sensors that can detect a disruption in the dirt a mile below the plane and trace footprints back to an enemy hide-out.
There is not a single new manned combat aircraft under research and development at any major Western aerospace company, and the Air Force is training more operators of unmanned aerial systems than fighter and bomber pilots combined. In 2011, unmanned systems carried out strikes from Afghanistan to Yemen. The most notable of these continuing operations is the not-so-covert war in Pakistan, where the United States has carried out more than 300 drone strikes since 2004.
Yet this operation has never been debated in Congress; more than seven years after it began, there has not even been a single vote for or against it. This campaign is not carried out by the Air Force; it is being conducted by the C.I.A. This shift affects everything from the strategy that guides it to the individuals who oversee it (civilian political appointees) and the lawyers who advise them (civilians rather than military officers).
It also affects how we and our politicians view such operations. President Obama's decision to send a small, brave Navy Seal team into Pakistan for 40 minutes was described by one of his advisers as ''the gutsiest call of any president in recent history.'' Yet few even talk about the decision to carry out more than 300 drone strikes in the very same country.
I do not condemn these strikes; I support most of them. What troubles me, though, is how a new technology is short-circuiting the decision-making process for what used to be the most important choice a democracy could make. Something that would have previously been viewed as a war is simply not being treated like a war.
THE change is not limited to covert action. Last spring, America launched airstrikes on Libya as part of a NATO operation to prevent Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government from massacring civilians. In late March, the White House announced that the American military was handing over combat operations to its European partners and would thereafter play only a supporting role.
The distinction was crucial. The operation's goals quickly evolved from a limited humanitarian intervention into an air war supporting local insurgents' efforts at regime change. But it had limited public support and no Congressional approval.
When the administration was asked to explain why continuing military action would not be a violation of the War Powers Resolution -- a Vietnam-era law that requires notifying Congress of military operations within 48 hours and getting its authorization after 60 days -- the White House argued that American operations did not ''involve the presence of U.S. ground troops, U.S. casualties or a serious threat thereof.'' But they did involve something we used to think of as war: blowing up stuff, lots of it.
Starting on April 23, American unmanned systems were deployed over Libya. For the next six months, they carried out at least 146 strikes on their own. They also identified and pinpointed the targets for most of NATO's manned strike jets. This unmanned operation lasted well past the 60-day deadline of the War Powers Resolution, extending to the very last airstrike that hit Colonel Qaddafi's convoy on Oct. 20 and led to his death.
Choosing to make the operation unmanned proved critical to initiating it without Congressional authorization and continuing it with minimal public support. On June 21, when NATO's air war was lagging, an American Navy helicopter was shot down by pro-Qaddafi forces. This previously would have been a disaster, with the risk of an American aircrew being captured or even killed. But the downed helicopter was an unmanned Fire Scout, and the story didn't even make the newspapers the next day.
Congress has not disappeared from all decisions about war, just the ones that matter. The same week that American drones were carrying out their 145th unauthorized airstrike in Libya, the president notified Congress that he had deployed 100 Special Operations troops to a different part of Africa.
This small unit was sent to train and advise Ugandan forces battling the cultish Lord's Resistance Army and was explicitly ordered not to engage in combat. Congress applauded the president for notifying it about this small noncombat mission but did nothing about having its laws ignored in the much larger combat operation in Libya.
We must now accept that technologies that remove humans from the battlefield, from unmanned systems like the Predator to cyberweapons like the Stuxnet computer worm, are becoming the new normal in war.
And like it or not, the new standard we've established for them is that presidents need to seek approval only for operations that send people into harm's way -- not for those that involve waging war by other means.
WITHOUT any actual political debate, we have set an enormous precedent, blurring the civilian and military roles in war and circumventing the Constitution's mandate for authorizing it. Freeing the executive branch to act as it chooses may be appealing to some now, but many future scenarios will be less clear-cut. And each political party will very likely have a different view, depending on who is in the White House.
Unmanned operations are not ''costless,'' as they are too often described in the news media and government deliberations. Even worthy actions can sometimes have unintended consequences. Faisal Shahzad, the would-be Times Square bomber, was drawn into terrorism by the very Predator strikes in Pakistan meant to stop terrorism.
Similarly, C.I.A. drone strikes outside of declared war zones are setting a troubling precedent that we might not want to see followed by the close to 50 other nations that now possess the same unmanned technology -- including China, Russia, Pakistan and Iran.
A deep deliberation on war was something the framers of the Constitution sought to build into our system. Yet on Tuesday, when President Obama talks about his wartime accomplishments during the State of the Union address, Congress will have to admit that its role has been reduced to the same part it plays during the president's big speech. These days, when it comes to authorizing war, Congress generally sits there silently, except for the occasional clapping. And we do the same at home.
Last year, I met with senior Pentagon officials to discuss the many tough issues emerging from our growing use of robots in war. One of them asked, ''So, who then is thinking about all this stuff?''
America's founding fathers may not have been able to imagine robotic drones, but they did provide an answer. The Constitution did not leave war, no matter how it is waged, to the executive branch alone.
In a democracy, it is an issue for all of us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Unmanned aircraft at an American base in Afghanistan in 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY TOWELL/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (89%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BULGARIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



943 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''We will fail here if what we try to do is replicate what we had 30 years ago.'' 
Mayor Thomas S. Richardsof Rochester, shortly beforeKodak, which is based there,filed for bankruptcyprotection. Despite job cuts bylarge corporations like Xeroxand Bausch & Lomb, newer businesses have helped turn Rochester into a job-growthleader of late.
''The misunderstanding many people have about this industry is that pay is whimsical. It's not.''
Alan Johnson, a compensation specialist who helps determine how Wall Street firms distribute billions of dollars to their workers.
''Everyone seems to win on this deal.''
Doug Fox, who has five auto dealerships in Ann Arbor,Mich., on new regulations that will require cars and trucks to have significantly higher fuel economy by 2025.
''Europe remains the largest overhang on the market at this time.''
John C. Gerspach, the chief financial officer of Citigroup, which reported fourth-quarter results that fell far short of what analysts were forecasting, despite a pickup in lending and a drop in losses on bad loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (53%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



944 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: As Price of Oil Soars, Users Can Only Shiver And Cross Their Fingers

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
NORTH BROOKFIELD, Mass. -- When David Harris built his 2,000-square-foot hilltop home nine years ago, he wanted to put in natural gas, but the utility wouldn't run a line to his house. Like many people here, he was stuck using heating oil.
Mr. Harris added a wood stove to help cut costs and now uses only about one-third of the oil the house would otherwise need. But that did not stop a deliveryman for Crowley Fuel from handing him a $471.21 bill earlier this month for a refill that should get him to April.
''You just cross your fingers and hope that it doesn't get too much worse,'' Mr. Harris said. 
Actually, it probably will -- for him and the residents of the roughly eight million other American homes that use heating oil, mostly in a band from Maine to Pennsylvania.
While natural gas prices have plummeted to 10-year lows, heating oil prices have been steadily rising for years and are expected to reach record levels this winter, precipitated by higher costs for crude oil and the shutdown of several crucial refineries in the Northeast and in Europe. The Energy Department projects a price of $3.79 a gallon over the next few months, more than a dollar above the winter average for the last five years. Analysts do not expect much relief in the longer term, either, because global oil prices are expected to stay high amid political instability in the Middle East and rising demand from developing countries.
With electricity prices also down, utilities are trumpeting that bills will drop this season for customers using gas and electric heat. Con Edison announced this week that residential gas heating bills in New York were expected to drop 11.5 percent this winter, and in New Jersey, PSE&G said that it would cut February bills for residential gas customers by an average of $30.
''The people who have been unable to switch off of heating oil will be increasingly penalized in the coming years,'' said Jay Hakes, a former administrator of the Energy Information Administration and now the director of the Jimmy Carter Library and Museum. ''There's going to be a continuing incentive to get off heating oil, because every day the headlines and experts say that over the foreseeable future, we will have natural gas at attractive prices.''
Nationwide, the average household using oil spent $2,298 on heat last year, compared with $724 spent by gas users and $957 spent by electricity users, according to the Energy Department.
This year, heating oil users are expected to spend 3.7 percent more than last year, while natural gas customers are expected to spend 7.3 percent less and electricity users will spend 2.4 percent less, according to the department.
Cheap natural gas was part of the appeal for Gus Kontoudakis, who spent about $3,000 to switch from oil at the home he rents out in Plainfield, Conn. The boiler was due for replacement anyway, he said. He already had gas at his restaurant, Gus's Pub and Pizzarama. ''I checked the bill and saw the difference and convinced myself to change it and give a break to my tenants,'' he said, adding that the oil heat was costing him about double what he now paid Yankee Gas.
But many oil users -- living in places like Alaska, Maine and even affluent parts of Manhattan -- do not have that option. Some are simply too far from a pipeline. For others, converting to natural gas is unaffordable, with costs that can run to tens of thousands of dollars for each home. As a result, they are trapped in a cycle of spending more and more for heat while those who use natural gas and electricity are generally spending less and less.
That dynamic is at work in households across the economic spectrum, but the cost gap looms as a crisis for the poor, experts warn, since the federal government has cut financing for energy assistance programs.
''We're concerned about a public health problem if there isn't additional money found,'' said Mark Wolfe, executive director of the National Energy Assistance Directors' Association. ''We've really never been in a situation before where we're going into the winter with very high prices'' for heating oil, he said, adding that the highest prices tended to come near the middle or end of the season.
The use of heating oil, which rose after World War II as a replacement for coal, has been on a long decline. As the use of virtually every other fuel has increased, the number of households that use heating oil has dropped from about 20 percent in 1975 to roughly 7 percent today, spurred by new home construction and population shifts to the West and South, closer to natural gas fields and pipelines. Government incentives for installing insulation also cut consumption of heating oil.
For decades, the prices of oil and gas moved virtually in tandem, but in recent years, vast increases in American gas supplies have made gas decisively cheaper.
Meanwhile, heating oil could grow more scarce in the Northeast this winter, the Energy Department warned last month. Companies have been closing refineries that produce heating oil because of declining profit margins. Sunoco and ConocoPhillips recently announced the idling of two major refineries in Pennsylvania, and a third refinery owned by Sunoco may close next summer.
Encouraged by the low prices for natural gas and government and utility incentives, more oil customers have been looking to make the switch.
Thomas Dziki of Richmond Hill, Queens, said it was a $750 bill to fill up his 150-gallon oil tank last winter that prompted him to call National Grid to convert. He spent about $8,500 to switch his three-story home to gas. Now, his monthly bills are in the $30 to $50 range -- so low, he said, that ''you almost want to call and say, 'Sorry, you're not billing me enough.' ''
For larger buildings in New York City, there is increased pressure to switch because of a new pollution regulation that will phase out the use of the heavier heating oils.
But conversion costs can be prohibitive, in part because Con Edison, the local utility, has to rip up the street to run pipes larger than those used for cooking gas.
''As a consumer, I'm very frustrated,'' said Nancy T. Schmitt, an energy-sector investment adviser whose Upper East Side co-op burns the densest form of oil. Her complex of about 50 units is weighing whether to switch to natural gas or to a lighter fuel to meet the new rules. ''I'm paying a high price for a dirty fuel, and I've got a cleaner fuel available and I want to see it happen,'' said Ms. Schmitt, who was trained as an environmental engineer.
But by one estimate, she said, it would cost $2 million to connect her complex to the existing lines. Con Ed has been working to help organize buildings into clusters for conversion, to lower costs and diminish the inconvenience.
Ultimately, heating oil faces a grim future, said Bob LaFlamme, who took over Crowley Fuel in North Brookfield from his wife's family 23 years ago.
''People are looking for alternatives,'' he said, adding, ''Even one of my own employees switched over, so that's telling you something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rob Thompson, a deliveryman for Crowley Fuel in North Brookfield, Mass., filling his supply truck with heating oil.
David Harris added a wood stove to his house to lower his heating oil bill, which recently cost him $471 for a few months' supply. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELVIN MA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: High Heating Oil Costs Hurt More in Northeast: Gas and oil prices used to run in tandem, and gas prices were at times extremely volatile. But since 2003, even as heating oil use, heavily concentrated in the Northeast, has declined, its price has risen sharply above gas, a gap that is expected to continue widening.
MAPS (Sources: Census Bureau
 Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



945 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, January 22nd 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 22, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 7, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1111STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur. 21AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.) A member of the Navy Seals who has the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. 3215KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The heart-stopping events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 4411THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $30.) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 5360UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 668CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House, $35.) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 7518THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins, $26.99.) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 876HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $21.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 91314BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $25.95.) A look at some of the places &#8212; Greece, Ireland, Iceland &#8212; hardest hit by the recent financial collapse of 2008. 10*1031IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 11119SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central, $26.99.) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 12125IMPERFECT JUSTICE, by Jeff Ashton with Lisa Pulitzer. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.) A prosecutor&#8217;s account of the Casey Anthony trial. 1387BEING GEORGE WASHINGTON, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions/Mercury Radio Arts, $26.) How Washington turned himself into the indispensable (if imperfect) man. 14*910JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $27.50.) An admiring portrait. 15145IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Archetype, $25.) Observations from the comedy writer and actress.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. ARGUABLY, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve)
17. DECEMBER 1941, by Craig Shirley. (Thomas Nelson)
18. BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown)
19. DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Doubleday)
20. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
21. THE SWERVE, by Stephen Greenblatt. (Norton)
22. A HISTORY OF THE WORLD IN 100 OBJECTS, by Neil MacGregor. (Viking)
23. SEAL TARGET GERONIMO, by Chuck Pfarrer. (St. Martin&#8217;s)
24. THEN AGAIN, by Diane Keaton. (Random House)
25. JERUSALEM, by Simon Sebag Montefiore. (Knopf)
26. PITY THE BILLIONAIRE, by Thomas Frank. (Metropolitan)
27. INTO THE SILENCE, by Wade Davis. (Knopf)
28. WORTH FIGHTING FOR, by Lisa Niemi Swayze. (Atria)
29. THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
30. THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. WILLPOWER, by Roy F. Baumeister and John Tierney. (Penguin Press)
32. THE TIME OF OUR LIVES, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House)
33. BLUE NIGHTS, by Joan Didion. (Knopf)
34. BACK TO WORK, by Bill Clinton. (Knopf)
35. GABBY, by Gabrielle Giffords and Mark Kelly with Jeffrey Zaslow. (Scribner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); HISTORY (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); WORLD WAR II (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); ATHLETES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

PERSON: ELLEN DEGENERES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); ICELAND (65%); GREECE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



946 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, January 22nd 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 22, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 7, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1150HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an appendectomy. 21AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. 3211STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 4731BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 5315KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 6450UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 789THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 859CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 91446THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 101031IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 1199THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 12119SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 13129IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing) Observations from the comedy writer and actress. 1413BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company) A look at some of the places hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008 and at how it happened. 15154IMPERFECT JUSTICE, by Jeff Ashton with Lisa Pulitzer. (HarperCollins Publishers) A prosecutor&#8217;s account of the Casey Anthony trial.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
17. WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton)
18. JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
19. BEING GEORGE WASHINGTON, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions)
20. AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse)
21. WORTH FIGHTING FOR, by Lisa Niemi Swayze. (Atria Books)
22. AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard)
23. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
24. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
25. DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (HarperCollins)
26. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
27. STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt)
28. WELCOME TO YOUR BRAIN, by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. (Bloomsbury)
29. DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
30. MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury)
31. THE JOURNAL OF BEST PRACTICES, by David Finch. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
32. MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
33. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
34. ---------- FINISH FIRST, by Tucker Max. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
35. THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Crown Publishing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); HISTORY (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



947 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, January 22nd 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 22, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 7, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1150HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 21AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. 3211STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 4450UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his bomber went down over the Pacific. 5315KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts one of the most consequential episodes of American history: the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 6640BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 779CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 81010WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) A memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse beginning in first grade and continuing for years. 91411THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 101235IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 11826A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman describes being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 121121AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 131550THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 14910IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing) Observations from the comedy writer and actress. 15189AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard Books) The unlikely 30-year friendship between a sales executive and a destitute boy. 161WORTH FIGHTING FOR, by Lisa Niemi Swayze. (Atria Books) Patrick Swayze&#39;s widow describes his battle with cancer and the challenges she has faced since his death. 171314SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing) A collection of humor pieces from the stand-up comedian and talk-show host. 18177IMPERFECT JUSTICE, by Jeff Ashton with Lisa Pulitzer. (HarperCollins Publishers) A prosecutor&#8217;s account of the Casey Anthony trial. 191WELCOME TO YOUR BRAIN, by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. (Bloomsbury) Two neuroscientists explain how the brain works. 2019STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 211THE JOURNAL OF BEST PRACTICES, by David Finch. (Simon &#38; Schuster) After a diagnosis of Asperger&#8217;s, a man strives to understand the syndrome and to learn to become a better husband. 222133MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury) A memoir of one-night stands. 2311DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (HarperCollins Publishers) The singer and showman recounts the meteoric rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith over the last three decades. 2441THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 252523THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The tale of a great architect (Daniel Hudson Burnham) and a serial killer (H. H. Holmes), who were linked by the Chicago World&#39;s Fair of 1893.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers)
27. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
28. JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
29. DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
30. BEING GEORGE WASHINGTON, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions)
31. THEN AGAIN, by Diane Keaton. (Random House Publishing)
32. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
33. PITY THE BILLIONAIRE, by Thomas Frank. (Holt)
34. MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W.W. Norton &#38; Company)
35. A SLAVE IN THE WHITE HOUSE, by Elizabeth Dowling Taylor. (Palgrave Macmillan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); HISTORY (86%); PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



948 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4834 words

HEADLINE: George Lucas Is Ready to Roll the Credits

BYLINE: By BRYAN CURTIS

 BODY:
This was a new feeling for George Lucas. He made a movie about a plucky band of freedom fighters who battle an evil empire -- a movie loaded with special effects like no one had seen before. Then he showed it to executives from all the Hollywood studios. And every one of them said, ''Nope.''
One studio's executives didn't even show up for the screening. ''Isn't this their job?'' Lucas says, astonished. ''Isn't their job at least to see movies? It's not like some Sundance kid coming in there and saying, 'I've got this little movie -- would you see it?' If Steven (Spielberg) or I or Jim Cameron or Bob Zemeckis comes in there, and they say, 'We don't even want to bother to see it. . . .' '' 
Lucas sighs. It's true that the movie, ''Red Tails,'' is a biopic about the Tuskegee Airmen rather than a space opera starring the Skywalker clan. But the snub implied that Lucas's pop-culture collateral -- six ''Star Wars'' movies, four ''Indiana Jones'' movies, the effects shop Industrial Light and Magic and toy licenses that were selling (at least) four different light sabers this Christmas -- was basically worthless. When ''Red Tails'' opens in theaters on Jan. 20, it will be because Lucas paid for everything, including the prints.
Lucas, who is 67 and still in possession of the full pompadour, told me his story of rejection on a cold December morning at Skywalker Ranch, in Marin County, Calif. He was sitting on a maroon sofa in the animation studios, wearing his standard billionaire-casual outfit -- a flannel shirt with rolled-up sleeves, jeans and Nikes -- while Padme Amidala, the heroine of the ''Star Wars'' prequels, peeked down from two paintings arranged on either side of his head.
''I'm retiring,'' Lucas said. ''I'm moving away from the business, from the company, from all this kind of stuff.''
He was careful to leave himself an out clause for a fifth ''Indiana Jones'' film. But otherwise, ''Red Tails'' will be the last blockbuster Lucas makes. ''Once this is finished, he's done everything he's ever wanted to do,'' says Rick McCallum, who has been producing Lucas's films for more than 20 years. ''He will have completed his task as a man and a filmmaker.''
Lucas has decided to devote the rest of his life to what cineastes in the 1970s used to call personal films. They'll be small in scope, esoteric in subject and screened mostly in art houses. They'll be like the experimental movies Lucas made in the 1960s, around the time he was at U.S.C. film school, when he recorded clouds moving over the desert and made a movie based on an E. E. Cummings poem. During that period, Lucas assumed he would spend his career on the fringes. Then ''Star Wars'' happened -- and though Lucas often mused about it, he never committed himself to the uncommercial world until now.
Sitting in a sun-drenched office, his voice boyish, Lucas talked about himself as if he were a character in one of his movies. He's at the end of an epic saga; he's embracing a new destiny (''Make the art films, George''); he's battling former acolytes who have become his sworn enemies; and George Lucas is -- no kidding -- in love. Before he takes his digital camera with him into obscurity, though, Lucas has one last mission. He wants to prove that with ''Red Tails,'' he can still make the kind of movie everyone in the world will want to see.
THE LAST BLOCKBUSTER
A little more than a week before our meeting at the ranch, Lucas stood in front of the screen in a packed theater in Times Square. An army of African-American power brokers looked down upon him from stadium seating. Richard Parsons was there. Spike Lee. David Dinkins. Al Sharpton. Desiree Rogers, the former White House social secretary. Lee Daniels, the director of ''Precious.''
Lucas was sporting his traditional uniform of jeans and a button-down -- but this time with a black cashmere sport coat, a flourish one Lucasite credited to Mellody Hobson, Lucas's girlfriend of about five years, who is president of one of the largest African-American-owned assets-management firms in the country. She stood at his side as Lucas told the crowd about his plan to avenge the studios' snub. (20th Century Fox finally agreed to distribute the movie domestically but will not be paying any of the costs.) Lucas, in a playful mood, said a huge opening weekend would persuade the studios to finance a second ''Red Tails'' movie -- a prequel -- ''that Spike Lee's gonna make!'' From the crowd, Lee yelled, ''When do we start?'' Lucas continued, ''And we can get somebody else -- Lee Daniels -- to do the sequel!''
All preview screenings are wildly optimistic celebrations of the possible. But this was different. This was a rally. ''On Jan. 20,'' an 89-year-old Tuskegee pilot named Roscoe C. Brown Jr., told the crowd, ''every African-American in this country ought to go see 'Red Tails.' '' Desiree Rogers, who is now C.E.O. of Johnson Publishing Company, said she was splashing ''Red Tails'' on the cover of Ebony. And Al Sharpton, sounding like a ''Star Wars'' fanboy in 1977, later insisted that ''it's probably one of the best movies I've ever seen!''
Lucas first heard the story of the Tuskegee Airmen from a friend, the photographer George Hall, in 1988. It appealed on a visceral level -- ''I'm a fan of fast things'' -- and also because, despite criticism that ''Star Wars'' was too white, Lucas has always had an interest in civil rights. Back in the 1970s, Lucas almost cast an African-American as Han Solo (Glynn Turman, who played the first Baltimore mayor in ''The Wire'').
Most important, though, the airmen, World War II pilots who won nearly 100 Distinguished Flying Crosses, fit perfectly in Lucas's mythic-heroic view finder. If there's a through line in the ''Star Wars'' and ''Indiana Jones'' movies, it's a childlike view of heroism. ''Star Wars,'' with its CliffsNotes Joseph Campbell formula, was a rejection of 1970s gloom; two decades later, the prequel movies were more innocent than ''Harry Potter'' and ''The Lord of the Rings.'' Lucas's films are relentlessly -- and to some, maddeningly -- old-fashioned and naive. ''If it's a popcorn movie,'' Lucas told me, ''it needs a lot of corn.''
The first ''Red Tails'' scripts, which Lucas began commissioning in the early 1990s, suggested a three-part epic. Imagine the opening scenes in segregated Alabama, where one of the original Tuskegee instructors takes Eleanor Roosevelt for a spin; then picture the airborne dogfights over Europe, with slick visual effects from Industrial Light and Magic; and finally, in an irony worthy of Ralph Ellison, envision the war heroes returning home to find that the country they fought for is still in the clammy hands of Jim Crow. ''You think 'Lawrence of Arabia,' you think 'The Bridge on the River Kwai,' '' Rick McCallum says. ''Then you think, Oh, my God, 'Red Tails.' ''
''I can't make that movie,'' Lucas recalled thinking when he read the scripts. ''I'm going to have make this kind of . . . entertainment movie.'' So Lucas focused on the middle chapter: the dogfights and the Nazi-hunting black pilots who shout, ''How you like that, Mr. Hitler!'' (When I mention Lucas's naive style to Michael Bay, the director of the ''Transformers'' movies, he says sympathetically, ''That's what I get crap for from my critics.'')
For a model, Lucas studied flag-waving World War II films like Nicholas Ray's ''Flying Leathernecks,'' which starred John Wayne. ''We made movies like this during the war, and everybody just loved them,'' he said. ''I said, 'There's no reason why that idealism, that kind of naivete, can't still exist.' '' But Lucas wanted naivete on his own terms. He slipped into a kind of Socratic conversation with an imaginary studio head.
''They say, Now, who are you making this for?''
''I'm making it for black teenagers.''
''And you're doing it as a throwback movie? You're not going to do it as a hip, happening-now, music-video kind of movie?''
''No, that's not a smart thing to do. There's not really going to be a lot of swearing in it. There's probably not going to be a huge amount of blood in it. Nobody's head's going to get blown off.''
''And you're going to be very patriotic -- you're making a black movie that's patriotic?''
''They have a right to have their history just like anybody else does,'' Lucas said. ''And they have a right to have it kind of Hollywood-ized and aggrandized and made corny and wonderful just like anybody else does. Even if that's not the fashion right now.''
The key then to understanding Lucas's last blockbuster, like his first, is not how futuristic he's making it but how retrograde.
REVENGE OF THE FANBOYS
Since 1997, the year Lucas released his special editions of the original ''Star Wars'' movies in theaters, he has been attacked by the very fans who once embraced his heroic style. They didn't like how Lucas changed the old movies; they didn't like the prequels, which seemed wooden and juvenile; and the Star Wars merchandising blitz they once gorged on had begun to drive them nuts. (All six ''Star Wars'' films will return to theaters in 3-D, beginning in February.)
''I think there are a lot more important things in the world'' than feuds with fanboys, Lucas says with a kind of weary diffidence. But then he gets serious, even a little wounded. Lucas explains that his first major features -- ''THX 1138'' and ''American Graffiti'' -- were forcibly re-edited by the studios. Those were wrenching experiences he has compared to someone keying your car (he loves cars) or chopping a finger off one of your children (he has three and loves them too). Afterward, Lucas set out to gain financial independence so the final cut would forever be his. ''If the movie doesn't work,'' he vowed, ''it's going to be my fault.''
In the last decade and a half, Lucas has given ''Star Wars'' several ''final'' cuts. For the 1997 special edition, he made Greedo, a green-skinned alien, fire his blaster at Han Solo because Han's murdering Greedo in cold blood -- as the 1977 version had it -- struck him as a violation of his own naive style. For the new Blu-ray version of ''Return of the Jedi,'' Lucas added Darth Vader shouting, ''Nooo!'' as he seizes the evil emperor in the movie's climactic scene. Lucas made the Ewoks blink. And so forth.
When fanboys wailed, Lucas did not just hear the scream of young Jedis; he heard something like the voice of the studio. The dumb, uncomprehending voice in his Socratic dialogues -- a voice telling him how to make a blockbuster. ''On the Internet, all those same guys that are complaining I made a change are completely changing the movie,'' Lucas says, referring to fans who, like the dreaded studios, have done their own forcible re-edits. ''I'm saying: 'Fine. But my movie, with my name on it, that says I did it, needs to be the way I want it.' ''
Lucas seized control of his movies from the studios only to discover that the fanboys could still give him script notes. ''Why would I make any more,'' Lucas says of the ''Star Wars'' movies, ''when everybody yells at you all the time and says what a terrible person you are?''
THE BLUE PEOPLE
After downing a few Grey Goose tonics at New York's Royalton hotel, Cuba Gooding Jr., one of the stars of ''Red Tails,'' came up with a rejoinder to all the people who turned down the project. ''I like to say James Cameron made a movie just like this,'' he said excitedly. ''Instead of black people, there were blue people being held down by white people. It was called 'Avatar!' And the studios said the same thing to him: 'We can't do a movie with blue people!' ''
THE JOHN WAYNE TREATMENT
To execute his popcorn vision of ''Red Tails,'' Lucas turned to Anthony Hemingway, a 36-year-old director who made his name on TV shows like ''The Wire.'' Hemingway, who had never directed a feature film, comes from the church of David Simon, which values moral murkiness over naivete, documentary detail about East Baltimore over an ethnography of the Ewok village. It was like hiring a ''Hill Street Blues'' veteran to direct ''Return of the Jedi.''
But from the beginning, Lucas wanted ''Red Tails'' to have a black director. ''I thought, This is the proper way to do this,'' he said. Indeed, to scan the credits in ''Red Tails'' is to see Lucas's fidelity to African-American filmmakers. There are two black writers and a black executive producer. Terence Blanchard, a Spike Lee collaborator (''Jungle Fever,'' ''Malcolm X''), wrote the score, and Art Sims, another Lee veteran, designed the one-sheet.
Hemingway couldn't believe he was working with Lucas. At the end of their first interview, the director turned to Lucas and said, ''May the force be with you.'' (Hemingway told me that afterward he was so embarrassed, he felt like jumping out of a window.) When Hemingway got the call telling him he'd been hired to direct the next George Lucas movie, he pulled over to the side of the road and began to cry.
Still, he wasn't sure Lucas was taking this film in the right direction. ''I always felt it was much more of a mature film,'' Hemingway said. ''I felt if you're going after kids, you have to go through the back door.'' But Lucas persuaded him that if they made ''Red Tails'' as a kids' picture, at some primal, emotional level, they would connect with the adult fanboys.
''Red Tails'' is dominated by plane-to-plane combat (''an hour's worth of fighting,'' Lucas says) that is as impressive as any put on screen. But the movie's heart is in the relationship between two pilots, Marty ''Easy'' Julian (Nate Parker) and Joe ''Lightning'' Little (David Oyelowo). As their nicknames suggest, Easy respects army brass and plays by the rules; Lightning bristles at authority and blows up German warships when he chooses. Hemingway told Parker and Oyelowo to imagine they were portraying the famous cleavage in the civil rights movement. ''The theme that consistently came up,'' Oyelowo says, ''was that I was Malcolm to his Martin.''
After Hemingway finished his shoot, ''Red Tails'' entered a two-year postproduction phase. Hemingway returned to TV; Lucas worked on additional scenes and effects. The movie still felt a tad reverent, so in early 2010, Lucas hired Aaron McGruder, the feisty creator of the Boondocks comic strip, as well as a famous ''Star Wars'' fan. It was an interesting decision, because McGruder was once a vocal opponent of Jar Jar Binks, the floppy-eared alien introduced in the first ''Star Wars'' prequel whose vocal squeaks (''Meesa your humble servant!'') reminded critics of Stepin Fetchit. One Boondocks strip showed Jar Jar with his fist in the air doing the black-power salute; another described Lucas being physically assaulted. ''What do I call it when someone who ruins his own pop-culture icons is attacked by a psycho fan?'' a McGruder character said. ''I call it justice.''
So the man who accused Lucas of racial klutziness found himself supplying dialogue for Lucas's Malcolm-and-Martin passion project. Lucas and McGruder spent mornings talking over scenes and dialogue. Then McGruder escaped to his Skywalker Ranch apartment, which was named for John Huston, to write new pages.
Did the subject of Jar Jar ever come up? ''I can safely say it did not,'' McGruder reported. ''Not at all. Not even close.'' In fact, the comic-book writer, like the ''Wire'' director, found himself smitten with Lucas's popcorn vision of ''Red Tails.'' As McGruder put it, ''One of the last things I said to George was: 'This movie kind of represents the last barrier of equality for the black fighting man. We've never had the John Wayne treatment.' '' Lucas had hit his retro-naive bull's-eye.
THE NUCLEAR DISASTER
There's an episode late in Lucas's popcorn period that nicely encapsulates the break between him and his fanboys. I speak, of course, of nuking the fridge.
In 2008's ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,'' the fourth and least-liked of the Lucas/Spielberg collaborations, Indy steps into a lead-lined refrigerator to survive a nuclear bomb. Like ''jumping the shark,'' ''nuke the fridge'' became shorthand for a creative nosedive and inspired a ''South Park'' episode in which Lucas and Spielberg rape their archaeologist hero. ''Blame me,'' Spielberg told Empire magazine last fall. ''Don't blame George. That was my silly idea.''
What the blistering fan reaction illustrates is one downside of Lucas's naive style. By persuading us to drop our snarky defenses and embrace his fables, Lucas had forged a bond with fanboys like no filmmaker, outside of Spielberg, before or since. (Adjusted for inflation, the three original ''Star Wars'' movies and ''Raiders of the Lost Ark'' still rank among the top 20 highest-grossing movies of all time.) But naivete is a fragile emotion. When Lucas goes back and futzes with his mythology -- has Greedo shoot first or creates a goofball like Jar Jar Binks or makes Indy uncool by sticking him in a refrigerator -- he isn't just messing with beloved movies. He's telling fanboys the naive belief they gave to him was misplaced.
''What more could one ask for than to have one's youth back again?'' Lucas once asked his biographer, Dale Pollock. Now imagine it being yanked away. If the fanboys had become like the studio to Lucas, then Lucas, to the fanboys, had become the man who breaks the bad news about adulthood. He'd become their dad.
When I told Lucas that Spielberg had accepted the blame for nuking the fridge, he looked stunned. ''It's not true,'' he said. ''He's trying to protect me.''
In fact, it was Spielberg who ''didn't believe'' the scene. In response to Spielberg's fears, Lucas put together a whole nuking-the-fridge dossier. It was about six inches thick, he indicated with his hands. Lucas said that if the refrigerator were lead-lined, and if Indy didn't break his neck when the fridge crashed to earth, and if he were able to get the door open, he could, in fact, survive. ''The odds of surviving that refrigerator -- from a lot of scientists -- are about 50-50,'' Lucas said.
But now we're talking about science rather than emotions, and the Lucas magic is lost.
SPIELBERG UNPLUGGED
I mentioned to Lucas that his pal Spielberg, who released ''The Adventures of Tintin'' and ''War Horse'' in December, was directing movies as if he were raging against the dying of the light. ''Steven is a born director, which is why he's such a genius,'' Lucas said of the 65-year-old Spielberg. ''He's truly a cinematic genius. But he's like a kid with a video game. It's like: 'C'mon, we're going. We're leaving now.' Death comes. . . . And then Steven goes: 'I got one more game! I got one more game!' ''
''One day,'' Lucas says, ''they're just going to unplug it and say, 'You've got to go home now.' ''
LUCAS IN LOVE
Love isn't an emotion that gets much of a workout in the Lucas universe. But mention Lucas's girlfriend, Mellody Hobson, and you get expressions of tender devotion that would make Han Solo blush. ''They're very much in love,'' says the director and screenwriter Matthew Robbins, a pal of Lucas's since U.S.C. ''It's the most semi-saccharine thing to be saying about your friend, but it happens to be true.''
''I'm just elated,'' the Oscar-winning cinematographer Haskell Wexler says, ''that in his old, rich days he's getting some enjoyment.''
Hobson, aside from being the president of the asset-management firm Ariel Investments, is a financial analyst on ''Good Morning America'' and a friend of the Obamas' and Oprah Winfrey's. She lives in Chicago and Lucas in Northern California, but they see each other nearly every weekend. Though Lucas is a lifelong liberal -- ''left of the middle,'' he once said -- before dating Hobson, he rarely left the editing room long enough to participate in politics. Now he does. During the 2008 presidential campaign, Lucas suggested to a reporter that Obama was a Jedi knight, the highest status in the Lucas worldview. In 2009, Hobson took Lucas -- wearing a tuxedo -- to the White House Correspondents' Dinner.
''When they started going together,'' Al Sharpton told me, ''it was like he had started going with black America's business princess.'' Sharpton was baffled by the match until he had lunch with Lucas last year and found him ''outraged'' and ''totally beside himself'' about the rejection of ''Red Tails.'' Hobson, Sharpton realized, had found someone whose passion and drive were equal to hers: ''It was like the coming together of two volcanoes!''
When I asked about Hobson, Lucas said, ''I'm a '60s, West Coast, liberal, radical, artsy, dyed-in-the-wool 99 percenter before there was such a thing.'' (He was referring to his upbringing rather than his reported $3.2 billion net worth.) ''And she's an East Coast, Princeton grad, Wall Street fund manager, knows all the big players, works in the big world. You would never think that we would get together, have anything in common. But when we did, we realized we had everything in common. It was the most unlikely coupling.''
The operative metaphor isn't Han Solo's sly courtship of Princess Leia. It's Richard Dreyfuss staring slack-jawed at Suzanne Somers in ''American Graffiti.'' ''I was attracted to her,'' Lucas continues, ''because she's really, really smart. . . . If you're more beautiful than I am and smarter than I am and you'll put up with me, that's all it takes. I'm there.''
THE WHITE PEOPLE
Last October, Lucas slipped incognito into the first ''Red Tails'' test screening in Atlanta. He and McCallum huddled together nervously among throngs of teenage boys. When the lights went down, Lucas muttered, ''Let the games begin. . . .''
Lucas got one report from the early ''Red Tails'' test screenings that struck him. Three or four white kids had been spotted yelling, ''I'm Easy!'' ''No, I'm Easy. You're Lightning!'' They'd become ''Red Tails'' heroes: Easy and Lightning, Malcolm and Martin. ''The ultimate line was to have a bunch of 10-year-old white boys say, 'I want to be like those guys,' '' Lucas says. ''Which is what you get with sports. Which is what you get with music. I wanted to do it just with being an American citizen. Again, that's corny.''
Lucas was ecstatic. He had minted a new collection of heroes. ''It plays,'' he excitedly told his friends. ''It plays.''
SEVENTIES FEVER
Making ''Red Tails'' was such a natural experience for Lucas -- like Peter Jackson commanding hobbits or Mike Leigh directing an emotionally fraught dinner scene -- that you wonder why he would leave for the obscurity of the experimental world.
Part of Lucas's urge, it seems, is to reassert himself as a figure of the '70s. Peter Biskind's book ''Easy Riders, Raging Bulls'' split the '70s Movie Brat generation into warring camps: Martin Scorsese, Hal Ashby and Robert Altman, the protectors of Art, versus Lucas and Spielberg, the guys who turned movies into video games. (It seemed like a worse insult 10 years ago.) Among the many problems with this theory is that Lucas's work on technical advances, like digital filmmaking and computer-generated imagery, has begun to help the very directors whose careers he supposedly vaporized. The year in which Martin Scorsese releases ''Hugo'' -- a movie with 15 times the number of C.G.I. shots as ''Jurassic Park'' -- is the year in which it's no longer O.K. to call Lucas a villain.
Lucas has also looked longingly at the career of Francis Ford Coppola, his onetime mentor. After years of tussling with the studios (and making his own flops without their interference), Coppola began self-financing movies like ''Twixt'' that find tiny audiences and often get brutal reviews from critics. Coppola loves the idea of Lucas's joining him in creating these kinds of films. ''Now that he's demonstrated his commercial moviemaking abilities,'' Coppola wrote in an e-mail, ''it's time to show his other side.'' He said Lucas's personal films -- a combination of light and music and crack editing -- are his ''real gift.''
But you wonder if this view -- the commercial versus the personal, the blockbuster versus the experimental art film -- is as reductive as the 1970s model. In fact, Lucas has always made personal films, just not in the traditional sense. The very first time Lucas showed ''Star Wars'' to friends, with World War II movie dogfights standing in for the unfinished effects, Spielberg is reported to have said, ''That movie is going to make $100 million, and I'll tell you why -- it has a marvelous innocence and na vete in it, which is George, and people will love it.''
That was without the Star Destroyers -- it was just Lucas's corny self up on the screen. Luke Skywalker's battle with Darth Vader was given emotional heft by Lucas's own relationship with his father, who owned a stationery shop and wanted George to join the family business. When Luke left his backwater planet for greater glory, he did so with the same resolve with which Lucas left his hometown of Modesto, Calif., a note Lucas struck perfectly in ''American Graffiti.'' (''Steve Bolander is an insurance agent in Modesto,'' reads the ''Graffiti'' postscript -- it sounds like Lucas's nightmare.) Even 1984's ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom'' is a kind of personal film. ''I was going through a divorce, and I was in a really bad mood,'' Lucas told me. So he dreamed up a villain who reaches into men's chests and pulls out their hearts. Did he really intend to create a metaphor that direct? ''Yeah,'' Lucas said glumly. The period is hard for him to think about.
Critics have said that Lucas's personal flourishes are elemental and unsophisticated. But, as Spielberg put it, that is George. He ushered in what you might call the personal blockbuster. Amid the dead-eyed sequel-makers who haunt the multiplex, there are directors who have figured out how to insert themselves -- their kinks, the fears, their passions -- into $100 million crowd-pleasers. In the Batman movies and ''Inception,'' Christopher Nolan works out his obsession with privacy and the sanctity of our minds; David Fincher burrows into the heads of loners (Lisbeth Salander, the Zodiac Killer, Mark Zuckerberg) on society's fringes. When Tim Burton makes a bad movie (like ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory''), the problem is often that it's too personal; we're locked in Burton's head when we could use some popcorn.
Lucas talks reverently of a certain category of megadirector -- James Cameron (''Avatar'') and Peter Jackson (''The Lord of the Rings'') -- who, like him, shepherd personal, seemingly ridiculous visions to the screen, only to watch them connect with a mass audience. ''Those to me are some of the more interesting movies,'' Lucas said. It's because, under even the strictest 1970s definition, they're personal films.
When Lucas talks about how excited he is to leave behind the rigors of blockbuster filmmaking -- how he is ''retiring, in a way, from my past'' -- he is, in the manner of a Lucas character, searching for his true self. A pesky ''Star Wars'' fanboy might suggest he already found him.
RIDE OFF, CUE SUNSET
Lucas doesn't think the studios were being racist in rejecting his all-black action adventure. They were merely confused. Just as with ''Star Wars,'' they were being shown a movie that didn't fit their marketing schema. ''What's it like?'' Lucas asked, slipping again into a Socratic dialogue.
''Well,'' he replied, ''it's kind of like 'The Color Purple,' only they're in airplanes. It's sort of like a Tyler Perry movie, only without jokes.''
And so, after shelling out nearly $100 million on the project, Lucas was sitting in his office in his flannel shirt dreaming of what his final blockbuster might rake in at the box office. ''If we can get over $20 million in our first weekend,'' Lucas said, ''we're kind of in the game. We're in 'The Help' category.''
It was strange to hear the creator of ''Star Wars'' cap his aspirations at ''The Help.'' And sure enough, Lucas's hypothetical grosses began to grow.
''If it gets $30 (million) in the first weekend,'' he continued, ''then those guys get to make their movies without even thinking about it.'' Here Lucas meant Spike Lee or Lee Daniels or whoever else might direct the ''Red Tails'' prequel and sequel.
''If it does 'Twilight' business,'' Lucas said. And here, to be clear, he was joking. But it's a joke you get to make only when you've rewired a few generations' worth of moviegoers' brains. ''If it does 'Twilight' business,'' Lucas said, ''then, gosh, all movies will be black.''
The sentiment is perfectly corny and na ve, and at the end of an amazing saga, it sounds like George Lucas's preferred way of saying goodbye.
AND ACTION: A clip from ''Red Tails'' is at nytimes.com/magazine
Correction: , Sunday

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan.22 about George Lucas's new film,''Red Tails,'' about the black pilots in World War II known asthe Tuskegee Airmen, referred incorrectly to one of them, Roscoe C. Brown Jr. He was not an ace (a designation that required five or more ''kills'' during the war; Brown had two).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hitmaker: George Lucas, clockwise from top left, on the set in 1967
with Robert Duvall during the making of ''THX 1138'' in 1971
with Mark Hamill during ''Star Wars'' in 1977
with Harrison Ford during ''Raiders of the Lost Ark'' in 1981
and with Kate Capshaw, Steven Spielberg and Harrison Ford during ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom'' in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCASFILM LTD. & TM
EVERETT COLLECTION
LUCASFILM LTD./ TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP./PHOTOFEST
PARAMOUNT/EVERETT COLLECTION) (MM42
MM43)
Three heroes: Tuskegee Airmen -- Oscar Lawton Wilkerson, Bev Dunjill and Milton Williams -- at a screening of ''Red Tails'' in Chicago. (MM44)
 Two volcanoes: Lucas with his girlfriend of about fi ve years, Mellody Hobson, at the Chicago screening on Jan. 6. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARVIN ORELLANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL EFFECTS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); FILM (89%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMATION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (94%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (78%); HARRISON FORD (73%); JAMES CAMERON (58%); MELLODY HOBSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Red Tails (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



949 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TALK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: The Not-So-Retiring Barney Frank

BYLINE: By ANDREW GOLDMAN

 BODY:
You recently said about Newt Gingrich: ''He's just one of the worst people I know of who didn't commit violence on somebody.'' Did he kill your dog? He transformed American politics from one in which people presume the good will of their opponents, even as they disagreed, into one in which people treated the people with whom they disagreed as bad and immoral. He was a kind of McCarthy-ite who succeeded.
It's looking as if Mitt Romney will win the Republican nomination. Because he was governor of Massachusetts, some of his Republican opponents have been trying to tar him as a heterosexual, Mormon version of you. There's no question that Romney ran against Ted Kennedy as kind of a liberal, and he ran for governor as a centrist. But as he governed, he moved further to the right. Massachusetts' new gaming commissioner, Steve Crosby, said: ''Some politicians get Potomac Fever when they're in office. When Mitt Romney was governor, he got Potomac Ebola Virus.'' 
You told this newspaper in 2003 that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ''are not facing any kind of financial crisis.'' I bet you regret that. I have been mislabeled as a big advocate of low-income home ownership over rental. But I was too optimistic about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
On Election night 2008, you said, ecstatically, ''This is the country telling Republicans, 'You know what, you guys are full of. ...''' How do you feel in retrospect? It did not work out as well as I thought. The recession was deeper, and it took us longer to deal with the 2008 crisis. The political price we paid for health care was far greater than I anticipated.
Is President Obama different from the man whose election you celebrated? I think he has done a first-rate job. But I do think some of my friends on the left read into him more than was actually there. Don't forget, I was for Hillary Clinton.
In 1989, a male prostitute accused you of, among other things, using your office to get him off probation and having sex with him in front of George Bush's locker in the Congressional gym. How come you survived and Anthony Weiner went down in flames? The Ethics Committee found that most of what he said wasn't true. And when I was confronted, I told everybody everything. Lawyers are very, very good at keeping you out of prison, but they will sacrifice your reputation and credibility to do so. So don't be evasive and don't be cute. And unless you think there is a serious chance you're going to jail, don't listen to your lawyer.
In December, you were shown on the House floor in a tight blue sweatshirt under a too-small suit jacket. I can't remember a revealing outfit getting as much attention since Jennifer Lopez wore that green Versace dress. What happened? I tore a ligament and a tendon, and I went to work wearing a pullover shirt that I could stick my cast through. When someone on the committee didn't show up, I had to go to the floor. I thought I'd borrow a jacket, but there were only thin people in my office that day.
You once said, ''I'm either going to die fat or hungry.'' What's been your biggest pitfall? Any kind of pastries and pies and cakes. For most of my life, I have eaten to deal with stress.
You've long argued for the decriminalization of marijuana. Do you smoke weed? No.
Why not? Why do you ask a question, then act surprised when I give an answer? Do you think I lie to people?
I thought you might explain why you support decriminalizing it but don't smoke it. Do you think I've ever had an abortion? I don't play poker on the Internet, either.
You've developed a reputation as being tough with journalists and even made some cry. Do you relish the sparring? No. And in my defense, who knew that these tough crusading reporters were so tender and sensitive? Does the First Amendment say something about how you can never say anything nasty to a reporter? Growing up, I remember seeing ''The Front Page.'' Do you think Hildy Johnson ever cried?
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELI MEIR KAPLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); ETHICS (71%); GAMING (68%); TROPICAL DISEASES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); VIRUSES (52%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BARNEY FRANK (72%); TED KENNEDY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



950 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Chavez, After Treatment for Cancer, Gets His Bluster Back and Flaunts It

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Maria Eugenia Diaz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- After a year shadowed by his cancer treatment, in which he appeared weakened and his strident voice was muted, Hugo Chavez, the colorful and obstreperous Venezuelan president who has made a habit of defying and taunting the United States, has found his swagger again.
This month he hosted President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, embracing him as a friend, joking about nuclear weapons and laughing off the charge by the United States and its allies that Iran was seeking to develop an atomic bomb. He vowed to pull out of a World Bank arbitration process that could force Venezuela to pay billions of dollars to foreign companies, like Exxon Mobil, whose property he has nationalized.
And, in one stroke, he found a way to irk both Washington and his political opponents at home, appointing a new defense minister who has been accused by the United States of supporting the drug trafficking activities of a Colombian rebel group classified as a terrorist organization by the State Department.
Throughout the summer and fall, Mr. Chavez appeared uncharacteristically frail, when he showed up in public at all. He curtailed a once-busy schedule and stopped conducting his weekly Sunday television program, Alo Presidente, which for years had helped rouse his core supporters and shape the national dialogue. 
But now that he says he has beaten cancer, he is asserting himself as the dominant figure in a tough campaign for re-election this year. As if to broadcast his renewed vigor, Mr. Chavez spoke for more than nine hours in his annual address to the National Assembly on Jan. 13, never sitting down and pausing only to take questions from legislators.
Commentators said that the speech, the equivalent of a State of the Union address, was his longest ever (last year's version was a mere seven and three-quarters hours) and that Mr. Chavez was intent on showing voters and politicians in his own party and the opposition that his powers were not diminished.
He said as much himself, concluding his speech by reading a passage from Nietzsche on the importance of will in overcoming obstacles. He ended with his own words: ''Here I am. I have returned.''
It was ''vintage Chavez in campaign mode,'' said Michael E. Shifter, president of Inter-American Dialogue, a nonpartisan policy group focused on the Western Hemisphere. ''He's basically saying, 'I'm back, I'm in full control, this is the old Chavez.' ''
Mr. Chavez has governed Venezuela for 13 years. He often picks fights with the United States, portraying it as an imperial bully and using his defiance to rally supporters at home and abroad. And he has pushed an increasingly aggressive agenda to establish his own brand of socialism in Venezuela, which includes the nationalization of businesses large and small, and programs aimed at fighting poverty.
But he was forced to check his stride. In June, he underwent surgery for his cancer and then began chemotherapy, shuttling back and forth to Cuba, where he received much of his treatment. His absence left a void, animating the opposition, revealing divisions within his own party and raising the question of whether he would still be the force he once was, if he recovered at all.
''The president was absent from the debate,'' said Elsa Cardozo, a professor of international studies at the Central University of Venezuela. ''It created room to think about a political future without Chavez, or with a Chavez diminished in his ability to bring together and control his supporters.''
At the same time, popular discontent with his government has grown over widespread electrical failures and rampant violent crime. Venezuela's regional influence has also waned, following a period when its economy struggled and neighboring Brazil exerted itself as the continent's powerhouse.
Mr. Chavez has never disclosed what form of cancer he had and speculation rages that he is much sicker than he has let on, raising doubts about his ability to campaign for re-election or govern for another term.
But in recent weeks Mr. Chavez has sharpened his tone and filled out his schedule. He rolled out new social programs in December that are sure to shore up support among the poorest Venezuelans, including a program that gives poor households about $100 a month for each child.
He held a meeting of heads of state from countries in Latin America and the Caribbean last month. And he revived his old rivalries, suggesting that the United States may have found a way to induce cancer in people it considered enemies, pointing to several heads of state in the region who, like himself, had received a diagnosis of cancer.
With the new year, he began firing on all cylinders. He hosted Mr. Ahmadinejad. He vowed to pull out of the World Bank arbitration process. And he appointed the new defense minister, Gen. Henry Rangel Silva, accused by the Treasury Department in 2008 of working closely with Colombian rebels to help them transport drugs through Venezuela.
General Rangel is looked upon warily by the political opposition in Venezuela because of remarks he made in a 2010 interview that were regarded by some as suggesting that the military would not accept the formation of a new government if Mr. Chavez lost.
Mr. Chavez has also defended President Bashar al-Assad of Syria in the face of accusations that he has brutally repressed an uprising there; and for good measure, Mr. Chavez lamented the downfall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, all in the name of anti-imperialism.
On Jan. 8, Mr. Chavez brought Alo Presidente back on the air. Then came his marathon speech, expansive in tone as well as length.
At one point in the address, an assembly member, Maria Corina Machado, who is part of a large field seeking to become the opposition candidate in the October election, took Mr. Chavez to task over shortages of basic goods like milk and the nationalization of private businesses, which she called robbery. But Mr. Chavez dismissed Ms. Machado's criticism, and, it seemed, the entire opposition. ''An eagle,'' he said, ''doesn't hunt a fly.''
In an interview on Friday, Ms. Machado said that Mr. Chavez was trying to come back from both a year marked by his cancer, as well as a strong showing by the opposition in legislative elections in 2010. ''The perception that he was unbeatable was demolished,'' Ms. Machado said.
While Mr. Chavez may be seeking to recapture his momentum after a difficult year, he is also doing what politicians often do in election years: moving to shore up the extreme wing of his party, which includes some of his most enthusiastic supporters.
''He's got to convince the base that he's the Hugo Chavez he always was,'' said David J. Myers, a professor of political science at Penn State. ''And that's what you're seeing right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hugo Chavez saluted supporters in Caracas before his annual address this month. He spoke for nine hours. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIANA CUBILLOS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); ONCOLOGY (90%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (53%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (53%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



951 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: A Good Candidate Is Hard to Find

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
THERE are 300 million people in the United States of America. There are millions of political activists, volunteers, organizers and would-be officeholders. There are hundreds of thousands of elected officials. Yet somehow, out of all this multitude, the Republican Party has been unable to find a candidate for the White House in 2012 who inspires anything but weary resignation from its voters.
What's remarkable is how often this seems to happen. As weak as this year's Republican field has proved, it's not that much weaker than a number of recent presidential vintages, from the Democrats' lineups in 1988 and 2004 to the Republican field in 1996. In presidential politics, the great talents (a Clinton, a Reagan) seem to be the exception; a march of Dole-Dukakis-Mondale mediocrity is closer to the rule. 
The problem, perhaps, is that a successful presidential campaign calls on a trio of talents that only rarely overlap. Being a master politician in a mass democracy, in this sense, is a bit like being a brilliant filmmaker who's somehow also a great economist, or a Nobel-winning scientist who writes best-selling novels on the side.
First, a great politician needs the gift of management. A would-be president has to be the C.E.O. of his or her campaign, with a flair for fund-raising, an eye for talent, and a keen sense of when to micromanage and when to delegate. This is the arm-twisting, organization-building, endorsement-corralling side of presidential politics, and not surprisingly it tends to favor insiders and deal-makers and old Washington hands.
But successful insiders and deal-makers are rarely comfortable with the more public, rhetorical, self-advertising side of politics. The great manager is unlikely to be a great persuader, capable of seducing undecided voters with his empathy, or inspiring them with what George H. W. Bush (who lacked it) called ''the vision thing.'' He's also unlikely to be a great demagogue, capable of demonizing his enemies and convincing his supporters that they stand at Armageddon and battle for the Lord. The manager can play these roles, but there will always be a hint of irony, a touch of phoniness, a sense that he'd much rather get back to the inside game.
Nor do the gifts of persuasion necessarily overlap with the gifts of demagoguery. Quite the reverse: The politician who's good at reaching out to the unconverted is usually mistrusted by his own base, and the politician whose us-versus-them rhetoric inspires devotion among ideologues rarely finds it easy to pivot to a more transcendent, unifying style. If Jon Huntsman had a little more Sarah Palin in him, for instance, or Palin a bit more Huntsman, one of them might have been the 2012 Republican nominee. But their respective gifts are rarely shared in a single personality.
When a politician somehow hits the manager-persuader-demagogue trifecta, he can seem unstoppable. (See Roosevelt, Franklin, and his four terms in office.) But just going two for three is usually enough to create an immensely formidable candidate.
Both Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, for instance, were great persuaders and great demagogues -- they could woo with high-minded appeals one moment and twist the partisan knife the next -- and that combination more than compensated for their weaknesses as managers. Dwight Eisenhower wasn't much of a demagogue, but he excelled at playing the unifier in public and at organizational hardball behind closed doors. Richard Nixon's appeal to voters' better angels always felt forced, but he could out-organize and out-demonize just about anyone -- at least until his paranoia infected his management style, and undid everything he'd built.
The losers of our presidential history, on the other hand, usually have only one gift out of three. They're good managers, more often than not, whose organizations outlast demagogues and persuaders in the primaries but who can neither rally the base nor inspire the center in the general election. Thus Walter Mondale, victorious over Jesse Jackson and Gary Hart but crushed by Reagan; thus Bob Dole and Michael Dukakis; thus John Kerry in 2004.
This is the path that Mitt Romney, managerial to his core, seems to be treading in 2012. The question is what kind of opponent he'll find waiting in November. In 2008, Barack Obama seemed to have almost F.D.R.-like gifts: He out-managed, out-inspired and out-demagogued both Hillary Clinton and John McCain.
But the presidency, unexpectedly, has exposed his limits as a communicator. Now when Obama demonizes, it seems clumsy; when he tries to persuade, it falls on deaf ears. Unlike Reagan and Clinton, the two masters, he seems unable to either bully or inspire.
What Obama has left, though, is the same capable, even ruthless organization that helped him over the top last time around. Maybe he'll rediscover the old 2008 magic as well. But if not, the 2012 election is shaping up to be the most wearying sort of American presidential campaign: a clash of two managers, slogging their way toward a prize that a stronger candidate might have taken in a walk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (52%); BESTSELLERS (51%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



952 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: American Voters: Still Up for Grabs

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
A Washington Post-ABC News poll released on Friday found that two-thirds of Americans would consider voting for a third-party presidential candidate, while 48 percent definitely wanted a third party in the race. Now what does that tell you? It tells you that with the campaign about to go into full swing, as the president delivers his State of the Union address next week, voters are still casting about for a leader with a winning message. I can save both parties a lot of money. I am one of those voters, and I can tell you exactly for whom I want to vote -- and I don't think I'm alone.
I want to vote for a candidate who advocates an immediate investment in infrastructure that will create jobs and upgrade America for the 21st century -- ultrafast bandwidth, highways, airports, public schools, mass transit -- and combines that with a long-term plan to fix our fiscal imbalances at the real scale of the problem, a plan that could be phased in as the economy recovers. 
On the latter point, I am talking about the Bowles-Simpson bipartisan deficit reduction plan -- or something equally serious and with a chance of bipartisan support. President Obama has proposed smart infrastructure investments, but he has not paired them with a credible long-term deficit-reduction plan, and the only chance of passage in Congress is to have both. Mitt Romney is not even close.
Christina Romer, the former chairwoman of Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, put it best when she told this newspaper on Dec. 31 that the U.S. ''faces two daunting economic problems: an unsustainable long-run budget deficit and persistent high unemployment. ... Over the next 20 to 30 years, rising health care costs and the retirement of the baby boomers are projected to cause deficits that make the current one look puny. At the rate we're going, the United States would almost surely default on its debt one day. ... We already have a blueprint for a bipartisan solution. The Bowles-Simpson commission hashed out a sensible plan of spending cuts, entitlement program reforms and revenue increases that would shave $4 trillion off the deficit over the next decade. It shares the pain of needed deficit reduction, while protecting the most vulnerable and maintaining investments in our future productivity.
''But we can't focus on the deficit alone,'' added Romer. ''Persistent unemployment is destroying the lives and wasting the talents of more than 13 million Americans. Pairing additional strong stimulus with a plan to reduce the deficit would likely pack a particularly powerful punch for confidence and spending.''
Second, I want to vote for a candidate who is committed to reforming taxes, and cutting spending, in a fair way. The rich must pay more, but everyone has to pay something. We are all in this together.
Third, I want to vote for a candidate who has an inspirational vision, not just a plan to balance the budget. People will sacrifice to make this country great again if they think you have a real plan for American success in the 21st century. And that plan is obvious. We're not going to be about launching one big moon shot anymore. We need to be building a country where everyone in the world wants to come to launch their own moon shot -- their own company, their own start-up -- because we have the best immigration policies, regulations, schools and incentives. We can't tax or cut our way to prosperity and jobs. We have to invent our way there. We need both more ''Made in America'' and ''Imagined in America.''
Finally, I want to vote for a candidate who supports a minimum floor of public financing of presidential, Senate and House campaigns. Money in politics is out of control today. Our Congress has become a forum for legalized bribery. Americans are losing faith in the instruments of government because they think the game is rigged by big money -- and they're right.
Any candidate with that four-part agenda would win -- and so would the country, because he would win with a mandate to do what needs doing.
''The people are so far ahead of the politicians,'' says the Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg. His polling, he adds, shows that many Americans today ''think that China, Germany and Brazil have strategies for success, and that we don't. But they are looking for that. They are looking for a leader who will be really bold.''
People have been misled by months of crazy G.O.P. debates that make the country look so much more divided, small-minded and unwilling to sacrifice to fix our problems than it actually is. That's why I'd bet anything that the first candidate who steps out of the cartoonish politics of destruction -- ''Romney is just a capitalist vulture. Obama is a Kenyan socialist'' -- and shocks the public by going radically responsible, radically honest, radically demanding and radically aspirational, along the lines above, will be our next president.
I hope it is Obama, because I agree with him on so many other issues. But if it's Romney, he'd deserve to win. And, if by some miracle, both run that campaign, and the 2012 contest is about two such competing visions, then put every dollar you own in the U.S. stock market. It will go up a gazillion points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); TAX REFORM (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHRISTINA ROMER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



953 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2656 words

HEADLINE: Life After 'Sex'

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
When Cynthia Nixon was 9, she played an impostor on ''To Tell the Truth.'' ''There was a little girl who was a professional horse rider who had won all these blue ribbons,'' she recalled, ''and the cool thing about her was she rode a Shetland pony, and I pretended to be her. My mother worked on the show; her job was to brief the impostors, coach them in pretending. But I couldn't believe that no one on the panel recognized me, because I was around the studio a lot. So when I rode out on the horse with a cowboy hat on, I was like this'' -- she ducked her head low -- ''because I knew they absolutely remembered me.'' Even now, her face fell. ''And no one recognized me.'' 
Nixon, now 45, has had the opposite problem for quite some time. As she walked through the densely populated Fairway on the Upper West Side one afternoon last month, she wore a brown Fedora pulled low around her face. Her six years on ''Sex and the City'' made her instantly recognizable; for a time, most every Type A professional woman in New York identified herself as a ''Miranda,'' after her character. It was the kind of success Nixon had not anticipated, even though she has been in the business for most of her life. She began with an ABC After School Special at 12 and a Broadway debut at 14 in a Lincoln Center revival of ''The Philadelphia Story.'' Just after she graduated from Hunter, an elite public high school, and was beginning her studies in English literature at Barnard, Nixon, at 18, appeared in two Broadway shows simultaneously, both directed by Mike Nichols. Eight times a week she played a teenage drifter in Hollywood in Acts One and Three of David Rabe's ''Hurlyburly,'' alongside William Hurt and Sigourney Weaver; in between, she appeared as the British daughter of Jeremy Irons and Christine Baranski in Act Two of Tom Stoppard's ''Real Thing.'' In the era of ''Fame,'' she was the It Girl without the leg warmers, striding onstage with a bravado that dared you to look away.
If the work had ended there, with a bang, no one would have been surprised, least of all Nixon. Her parents continually warned her that few child actors break through as adults. ''You knew your expiration date was stamped on your forehead, and everybody could see it,'' she said. ''You felt a little like you were on death row.''
But as she got older, the offers kept coming, and she found herself with a solid New York-based career. The global success of ''Sex and the City'' cemented her celebrity. ''Nobody ever really thought of me as sexy, right?'' she said wryly when we sat down earlier to talk. ''They thought of me as smart and quirky. For a while I was waifish, and then I was smart and quirky, and then when I was like 30 I was cast in 'Sex and the City.' Thirty seems young to me now, but at the time 30 seemed to be kind of getting old, so it was this amazing confluence of events where I, who had never really exercised, never really worn heels, was in this thing that was about sex and grooming and your body. I might have just gone from waifs to old ladies, but I had my bombshell period in there, my unexpected bombshell period.''
Hollywood, however, with its junior-high-school standards of beauty and popularity, never mistook her for a star. Two years after winning an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in the last season of ''Sex and the City,'' Nixon won a Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for ''Rabbit Hole,'' but the screen version of the role went to Nicole Kidman. ''They could never have gotten it made if I was in the movie,'' Nixon said evenly. ''But I loved playing that part, and I loved playing it onstage; I can't do that kind of emotion on film, I just can't. It's too still or something.''
Nixon is currently starring in a revival of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ''Wit,'' on Broadway, directed by Lynne Meadow. (It opens Jan. 26.) The play, which had its first New York staging Off Broadway in 1998, is an actor's tour de force about an exacting poetry professor who undergoes a brutal -- and by now outdated -- experimental treatment for Stage 4 ovarian cancer, a woman who excelled all her life by analytical brainpower suddenly forced to grapple with extreme, unwelcome emotions.
Nixon herself discovered she had breast cancer during a routine mammogram in 2006 (it was caught at an early stage and required a lumpectomy and radiation but no chemotherapy; she still takes Tamoxifen). Her mother, Anne Knoll Nixon, 82, has had three bouts with it, the first when Nixon was 12.
An only child whose parents separated when she was 6, Nixon has stayed close to her mother her entire life. To succeed at both acting and academics required discipline and obedience in equal measure, and Nixon was guided with a strong hand by Anne, a classmate of Paul Newman's at the Yale School of Drama, who seems to have functioned more as a constructive acting coach than as an insatiable Mama Rose. The way Nixon carries herself, with easy confidence and a lack of drama, seems to derive from having been the glowing center of the world for a mother who managed to do no harm.
Nixon is a mother herself; her two oldest children are Samantha, 15, and Charlie, 9. Their father is Daniel Mozes, a classmate of Nixon's at Hunter College High School, where he now teaches English. The couple never married and split in 2003.
As Nixon has grown older, she has allowed herself to start coloring outside the lines. A year after splitting with Mozes, she began a relationship with Christine Marinoni, now 44, whom she met while campaigning to increase financing for New York City public schools. With the help of a male friend Nixon will not identify, Marinoni conceived a child. She gave birth to their son, Max Ellington Nixon-Marinoni, on Feb. 7, 2011.
On this late December afternoon at Fairway, Nixon was armed with a holiday-meal shopping list. She gathered ingredients for rugelach, reaching gracefully around an old woman crouched in the dairy section to grab a block of Philadelphia cream cheese and a container of sour cream. Nixon is a brisk, focused shopper who knows the store's geography well, parking her cart in strategic places while charging the aisles. She tossed a challah into it -- ''French toast'' -- and a large bottle of vanilla. She was expert at blending into the crowd without calling attention to herself -- the whirl of purpose served her well -- and when she was recognized, it was adulation New York-style: delight at spotting a celebrity tinged with self-congratulation for being at the right place at the right time.
We headed upstairs to the organic department, where she filled bags with Fuji apples and Idaho potatoes. Then she gathered up some red kale. ''My girlfriend juices for me, which is really nice. It's a cancer thing.'' Nixon seems extremely matter-of-fact about the ''cancer thing.'' ''I feel that between my experience and my mother's, breast cancer is a little bit like someone who lives next door,'' she said. ''I know what that person looks like and what their daily habits are. I mean, I get my ultrasounds and stuff, so I think I'm less scared than if I didn't do that.''
Loaded down with bags, she took the stairs to the street. It was quite a feat to have made it through 40 minutes of shopping with only a handful of people aware of her presence. She seemed proud, unlike her 9-year-old self, of going almost unnoticed. ''Hats help,'' she said.
When I arrived at Manhattan Theater Club to talk to Nixon during rehearsals of ''Wit,'' she was busy making herself tea -- no assistants. Emanuel Azenberg, the veteran Broadway impresario and a producer of ''The Real Thing'' in 1984, told me: ''Cynthia overcame success. She was this nice kid who went on to this extraordinary career and remained a well-balanced person with real equilibrium. She treats people well; it doesn't matter who they are.''
Nixon does have a practiced air of civility that comes from having been a public person from childhood. She is professionally lovely, though she rarely allows herself to lapse into intimacy. As with many former child actors, there is a persistent echo of herself as she was when she began; you can see her switch into engaging mode -- standing up midconversation to act out a scene, banging on the table for emphasis -- displaying just enough exuberance to set herself apart and make a favorable impression. Maybe all actors tend to audition. But because Nixon genuinely connects, it feels sweet somehow to see her eagerness to please.
''Both my parents were always careful to say, 'You're doing this for now,' '' she recalled. ''Most child actors, once they hit 18, once they hit 21, that's it. Even teenage kids often don't make the transition. Unlike me, a lot of child actors are very short, which is why they work. So when they're 15 they can play 11 or when they're 18 they can play 14. They look young for so long, they have abilities a much younger kid wouldn't have.''
Nixon's father, Walter, a radio journalist who she says was often unemployed, died in 1998. Though her mother's own acting ambitions went unfulfilled, Nixon says there was never any sense of competition or jealousy between them. ''It just felt for so long like we were in cahoots,'' she said. ''The plan was, 'I'm going to act until I'm 18, earn as much money as I can while still going to school and not jeopardize my school, not go to California and pay for college.' So I think I always had the sense that acting wasn't the centerpiece. I've always had a left hand to balance the right hand. When Laurence Olivier was asked what the most important thing is for a young actor to learn, he said, 'How to become an old actor.' I didn't know that back then, but I wasn't looking for height, I wasn't looking to hit it really big. I was looking to stay close to the ground.
''As a child,'' she continued, ''I only worked with my mother. She still will come nowadays and give me a note here and there. It's why to me the director is the person I care most about, because I'm so used to working with my own personal director. Some friends of mine who are actors feel directing shuts them down and kills all their impulses, but the worst thing for me is if I feel a director hasn't noticed. That makes me feel like God isn't watching. Maybe it's an only-child thing. Like in order for something to be important or real, my mother has to see it happen, particularly if it's something good.''
When Nixon was 28, she studied briefly with the legendary acting teacher Uta Hagen, who also taught her mother. ''That was great, but hard,'' she said. ''I had been acting for how long at that point? Like 16 years. So you can learn some things, but it's hard to undo stuff. It's like you built your house with whatever materials you had available to you, and then time passes and now you have the money to buy the proper materials but the house is already built so maybe you'll retile the kitchen. But the house is built.''
Nixon manages to keep a similarly cleareyed perspective on her relationship with Marinoni, despite the titillation it has caused in the tabloid media. She has less tolerance for the skepticism she says her relationship has sparked among some gay activists who find her midlife switch in sexual orientation disingenuous.
''I totally reject that,'' she said heatedly. ''I gave a speech recently, an empowerment speech to a gay audience, and it included the line 'I've been straight and I've been gay, and gay is better.' And they tried to get me to change it, because they said it implies that homosexuality can be a choice. And for me, it is a choice. I understand that for many people it's not, but for me it's a choice, and you don't get to define my gayness for me. A certain section of our community is very concerned that it not be seen as a choice, because if it's a choice, then we could opt out. I say it doesn't matter if we flew here or we swam here, it matters that we are here and we are one group and let us stop trying to make a litmus test for who is considered gay and who is not.'' Her face was red and her arms were waving. ''As you can tell,'' she said, ''I am very annoyed about this issue. Why can't it be a choice? Why is that any less legitimate? It seems we're just ceding this point to bigots who are demanding it, and I don't think that they should define the terms of the debate. I also feel like people think I was walking around in a cloud and didn't realize I was gay, which I find really offensive. I find it offensive to me, but I also find it offensive to all the men I've been out with.''
Her relationship with Mozes is good, she says. He married a widow, a child psychiatrist with twins, who are now 7, and they all share parenting duties. Two days before the first preview of ''Wit,'' I met Marinoni, who came to the theater with 11-month-old Max to show support for Nixon as she had her head shaved for the role. As she sat down for her transformation, Nixon wore a T-shirt her mother gave her, which read: ''I am the celebrity you think I look like.'' She seemed calm, though the extra loud baby noises she was making at Max, redheaded and adorable, betrayed her anxiety. Marinoni, 44, also a redhead, is self-possessed and understated. ''She hates dealing with her hair,'' she murmured, looking at Nixon. ''I'm afraid she won't want it back.''
Nixon's own Miranda-red hair is long gone; her natural color is dark blond. She sat stoically as the hair supervisor for the show cut steadily until one side was off. ''Max, look!'' Nixon cried. ''Where did it go?'' The other side went, with a few sprigs left at the top of her head. ''Bald Alfalfa!'' she yelled. Marinoni smiled. ''You look fierce,'' she said. The first shave took place. ''Oh, it's so weird to the touch!'' Nixon said. ''It feels like tiny little wounds, tiny little nicks. It feels exposed.''
She expressed surprise at the clear outline of follicles that remained. ''It does not want to come off,'' the hair supervisor said, buzzing harder. That discovery seemed to temper Nixon's nerves, making her mindful that, unlike someone undergoing chemotherapy, she still had her eyebrows, eyelashes and radiant pink cheeks. Meadow, her director, came in with a pair of long hoop earrings, each anchored by a pearl. Nixon, who has the actor's gift of the chameleon, put them on and voila! Giggling, she was soiree-ready. She took the earrings off and tried on a red baseball cap that is part of her costume. Its visor obscured her eyebrows and cut the light on her face, which went chalk white to match her unnaturally exposed scrawny neck. She looked instantly like a cancer patient. Jolted, she removed the cap. One step at a time.
Before the second shave, Nixon's scalp was steamed with a hot towel, then slathered with Edge gel. As she cooed at Max, her bald head covered in a light green foam, while he, held tight in Marinoni's arms, gnawed on a bottle of nail polish, I remembered the phrase Nixon used to describe what she regarded as her greatest achievement in life: Relative sanity.
''I know everybody says their kids are their greatest achievement,'' she said, ''and I think my kids are wildly impressive and great, but I don't feel like they're my achievement, really. They're their own people. My relative sanity, I feel, has created a pretty good world for them. Not a perfect world by any means, but a pretty good one.''
Correction: January 22, 2012, Sunday

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A profile on Page 24 this weekend about the actress Cynthia Nixon misspells the surname of an actress Nixon worked with on Broadway early in her career. She is Christine Baranski, not Baranksi. The profile also refers incorrectly to the play ''Wit,'' in which Nixon is now starring on Broadway. It had its first New York staging Off Broadway in 1998, not its first over all. (That happened in a Los Angeles-area theater, in 1995.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SELIGER) (MM25)
From top: ''Little Darlings'' (feature fi lm, 1980)
''My Body, My Child,'' with Maia Danziger and Sarah Jessica Parker (TV, 1982)
''The Real Thing,'' with Christine Baranski and Jeremy Irons (Broadway, 1984). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PARAMOUNT/EVERETT COLLECTION
ABC VIA GETTY IMAGES
MARTHA SWOPE) (MM26)
''Hurlyburly,'' with William Hurt (Broadway, 1984)
''Sex and the City,'' with Parker (1998
Emmy Award in 2004)
''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'' (Off Broadway, 2006)
''Rabbit Hole'' (Broadway, 2006, Tony Award). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTHA SWOPE
HBO VIA GETTY IMAGES
 SARA KRULWICH/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); HORSES (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (73%); MIKE NICHOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



954 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Showtime At the Apollo

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
FOR eight seconds, we saw the president we had craved for three years: cool, joyous, funny, connected.
''I, I'm so in love with you,'' Barack Obama crooned to a thrilled crowd at a fund-raiser at the Apollo in Harlem on Thursday night, doing a seductive imitation as Al Green himself looked on.
The song would make a good campaign anthem: ''Let's stay together, lovin' you whether, whether times are good or bad, happy or sad.'' Don't break up, turn around and make up. 
Times have been bad and sad, and The One did not turn out to be a messiah, just a mortal politician who ruefully jokes that his talent is hitting the ''sweet spot'' where he makes no one happy, neither allies nor opponents.
The man who became famous with a speech declaring that we were one America, not opposing teams of red and blue states, presides over an America more riven by blue and red than ever.
The man who came to Washington on a wave of euphoria has had a presidency with all the joy of a root canal, dragged down by W.'s recklessness and his own inability to read America's panic and its thirst for a strong leader.
In an interview with Fareed Zakaria for this week's Time cover story, the president is maddeningly naive.
Asked about his cool, aloof style and his unproductive relationship with John Boehner, Obama replied: ''You know, the truth is, actually, when it comes to Congress, the issue is not personal relationships. My suspicion is that this whole critique has to do with the fact that I don't go to a lot of Washington parties. And as a consequence, the Washington press corps maybe just doesn't feel like I'm in the mix enough with them, and they figure, well, if I'm not spending time with them, I must be cold and aloof. The fact is, I've got a 13-year-old and 10-year-old daughter.''
Reagan didn't socialize with the press. He spent his evenings with Nancy, watching TV with dinner trays. But he knew that to transcend, you can't condescend.
The portrait of the first couple in Jodi Kantor's new book, ''The Obamas,'' bristles with aggrievement and the rational president's disdain for the irrational nature of politics, the press and Republicans. Despite what his rivals say, the president and the first lady do believe in American exceptionalism -- their own, and they feel overassaulted and underappreciated.
We disappointed them.
As Michelle said to Oprah in an interview she did with the president last May: ''I always told the voters, the question isn't whether Barack Obama is ready to be president. The question is whether we're ready. And that continues to be the question we have to ask ourselves.''
They still believed, as their friend Valerie Jarrett once said, that Obama was ''just too talented to do what ordinary people do.''
As Kantor reports, when the president met with Democratic members of Congress who had lost their seats in the midterms because of an incoherent White House economic and jobs strategy, he did not seem to comprehend the anxiety that had spawned the Tea Party, or feel any regret. Jim Oberstar, who lost his long-held Minnesota perch, recalled Obama's saying, ''In the end, this is for the greater good of the country.''
Who knew, in the exuberance of 2008, that America was electing an introvert? And that one who touched so many felt above the touchy-feely-gritty parts of politics?
Asked last week by Piers Morgan how he got on with Obama, Jimmy Carter -- one of two living Democratic ex-presidents -- replied, ''We don't really have any relationship.'' The Clintons have not been courted with dinners in the private residence either.
Kantor writes that the Obamas, feeling misunderstood, burrowed into ''self-imposed exile'' -- a ''bubble within the bubble'' -- with their small circle of Chicago friends, who reinforced the idea that ''the American public just did not appreciate their exceptional leader.''
She reports that Marty Nesbitt indignantly told his fellow Obama pal Eric Whitaker that the president ''could get 70 or 80 percent of the vote anywhere but the U.S.''
The Obamas, especially Michelle, have radiated the sense that Americans do not appreciate what they sacrifice by living in a gilded cage. They've forgotten Rule No. 1 of politics: No one sheds tears for anyone lucky enough to live at the White House. And after four or eight years of public service, you are assured membership in the 1 percent club.
The Obamas truly feel like victims. But Newt Gingrich, who campaigns by attacking the culture of victimization, plays one on stage. He soared at the Charleston CNN debate by brazenly proclaiming himself the victim of ''the elite media protecting Barack Obama'' (the same Obama who told Time he was victimized by the press). Newt's gambit was a calculated way of deflecting attention from a charge by his second wife, Marianne, that the family values he preaches are hypocritical platitudes, given his cheating ways with two wives he divorced when they were ill.
Could 2012, remarkably, be a race between two powerful victims yearning to be lonely at the top?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); AL GREEN (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



955 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Certainty Fades as Romney Falters

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- For Mitt Romney, the South Carolina primary was not just a defeat, though it was most emphatically that. It was also where his campaign confronted the prospect it had most hoped to avoid: a dominant, surging and energized rival.
The rebirth of Newt Gingrich, a notion that seemed far-fetched only weeks ago, has upended a litany of assumptions about this turbulent race. It wounds Mr. Romney, particularly given his stinging double-digit defeat here on Saturday, and raises the likelihood that the Republican contest could stretch into the springtime.
For now the race goes on, with Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney joined by Rick Santorum and Ron Paul. But Mr. Gingrich's showing here suggests that Mr. Romney may no longer be able to count on his rivals splitting the opposing vote into harmless parcels, or on the support he is getting from the party establishment to carry him past a volatile conservative grass-roots movement.
At a minimum, it is clear that Republican voters, after delivering three different winners in the first three stops in the nominating contest, are in no rush to settle on their nominee. 
Mr. Romney, whose message has been built around the proposition that he can create jobs, lost badly among voters who said they were very worried about the economy, according to exit polls.
He had trouble with evangelicals and voters searching for a candidate who shared their faith. He did not win over people who support the Tea Party movement. And he struggled with questions about his wealth over the past week and could not match Mr. Gingrich in exciting the passions of conservatives.
His arguments of electability -- the spine of his candidacy -- fell flat to a wide portion of the party's base here.
For all that, by most traditional measures, Mr. Romney retains a firm upper hand in the Republican race as it moves into a protracted battle to win 1,144 delegates.
He is on the ballot in all states, while Mr. Gingrich is not. Even as he was steadily falling in South Carolina last week, he was racking up tens of thousands of early votes for the Florida primary on Jan. 31. He has a well-financed ''super PAC'' ready to carry out attacks on his behalf. And he faces far friendlier terrain in February as Nevada and Michigan, the only states he won four years ago, weigh in.
But despite the advantages of his campaign organization, which quite literally is the best that money can build, Mr. Romney leaves South Carolina with fresh questions about his unsteady performance as a candidate. He was repeatedly outshone by Mr. Gingrich, whose candidacy has flourished in debate after debate. And with two more debates in the next five days in Florida, the amount of media attention awaiting Mr. Gingrich is sure to be immense.
A big fear for Mr. Romney is that this race may not be dictated by traditional measures. Republicans seem to want someone they are confident can shred Mr. Obama in a head-to-head matchup. The Tea Party movement, if less prominent than a year ago, continues to impose pressure against political compromise and for ideological purity. Mr. Romney's Mormon religion remains an issue to some evangelical voters.
If Mr. Romney and his team had allowed themselves to dream of a smooth walk to the nomination, they are now wide awake to the challenges ahead and how hard they will have to fight.
The Romney campaign, which had let its collective boot off of Mr. Gingrich's throat after his candidacy fell in Iowa, is poised to open the most aggressive attack yet against him. Advisers to Mr. Romney said that they were happy to have Mr. Gingrich take his turn in the front-runner's spotlight.
''We like the way the race looks going forward,'' Stuart Stevens, a top strategist to Mr. Romney, said Saturday evening. ''A lot of politics is about patience and picking your opponent.''
While advisers to Mr. Romney believe that he will ultimately fare well in a head-to-head matchup, the 10 days leading up to the Florida primary present an interesting test for how a traditional campaign organization can stack up against the wave of momentum that Mr. Gingrich will carry from his muscular victory in South Carolina.
The Florida primary is closed, so only Republicans can participate, which could hurt Mr. Romney. It remains an open question how much of a factor Mr. Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania who finished third, will be. But Mr. Santorum pledged to go to Florida and beyond, aides said, to be there in case Mr. Gingrich, whose ups and downs this year have been extreme, collapses again.
From the start, South Carolina was difficult territory for Mr. Romney, who placed fourth here in the 2008 Republican primary. It was only after his apparent victory in Iowa -- later rescinded after a recount -- and his win in his backyard of New Hampshire that he allowed expectations to build of the possibility of sweeping the first three contests. Had he held down expectations, his defeat might not have carried as much impact.
''There may be some sentiment of 'Let's have this go on a little longer,' '' said Jim Talent, a former Missouri senator and a senior adviser to the Romney campaign, who traveled here to help. He said Republican voters wanted the race to go on.
Whether Mr. Romney's defeat portends trouble ahead is not clear. The makeup of the electorate in South Carolina is far more socially conservative and religious than in most states. His advisers argued that the judgment of voters did not easily translate to other states, particularly considering nearly two-thirds of primary voters were evangelical or born-again Christians, according to exit polls.
''I said from the very beginning South Carolina is an uphill battle for a guy from Massachusetts,'' Mr. Romney said on the eve of the primary, hoping to explain away his impending defeat.
The presidential candidacy of Mr. Romney has always been built on the assumption that he is the most likely to defeat Mr. Obama. That argument did not hold here, where Mr. Gingrich's fiery style in two debates went a long way toward winning over voters, exit polls suggested. If Mr. Gingrich is able to keep whittling away at that line of reasoning, Mr. Romney could face an uphill battle.
For all the talk that the Tea Party had dissipated, after it helped drive the Republican Party in the 2010 Congressional elections, the South Carolina primary suggested that antiestablishment sentiment can wield influence in a primary.
The confidence that carried Mr. Romney into South Carolina 12 days ago with two victories under his belt was gone by Saturday. He limps away from the state Sunday with one win fewer and primary results that have started turning the race into exactly what he did not want it to be: a faceoff against a conservative candidate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney amid supporters in Greenville, S.C., on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHART: Primary Results: PERCENT REPORTING: 100% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); RELIGION (65%); JOB CREATION (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



956 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Broad Support Amid Concern About Economy, and Defeating Obama

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- Concerns about the economy, the desire to defeat President Obama and Newt Gingrich's performance in the recent debates helped voters in the South Carolina Republican primary make their decisions.
The contest was fluid until the bitter end -- more than half chose their candidate within the last few days, according to a survey of voters.
Mr. Gingrich was supported by men and women alike, evangelical Christians and Roman Catholics, those who support the Tea Party and those who are neutral about it. 
Mitt Romney, who until earlier last week was considered the front-runner in South Carolina, did best among moderates, the very affluent and those who oppose the Tea Party.
Voters in the South Carolina primary were more concerned about the economy than they had been four years ago. Nearly two-thirds of them said the economy was the most important issue determining their vote. Four years ago, the economy was the top issue, selected by 40 percent of voters in the Republican primary.
In 2008, fewer voters were feeling the economic pinch. Eleven percent said then that they were falling behind financially; now a fifth said they were, at a time when the state's unemployment is above the national average, at 9.9 percent. Three in 10 voters in Saturday's primary said someone in their household had lost a job or had been laid off in the last three years. Three-quarters were very worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years.
Even more than in Iowa and New Hampshire, the top priority for the Republicans in South Carolina was defeating President Obama, and Mr. Gingrich did best with those voters. He also fared well with the voters who were looking for a candidate with the ''right experience.''
The Republican primary in South Carolina is open; voters do not have to be registered as a Republican to vote. So with no Democratic primary this year, there were more independents voting in the Republican primary than in 2008. A quarter described themselves as ''independent'' or ''other''; only 18 percent had done so in 2008.
Independents divided their support among Mr. Gingrich, who received about 3 in 10 of their votes, and Ron Paul and Mr. Romney, who each got about a quarter of their votes.
Nearly two-thirds of the voters described themselves as evangelical or born-again Christian. In 2008, 60 percent had indicated they were evangelical or born-again Christians. Mr. Gingrich was backed by about 40 percent of these voters; about a fifth of them voted for Mr. Romney. Although Rick Santorum was endorsed by a group of evangelical leaders in Texas, he received only a fifth of the votes from evangelical Christians.
Six in 10 voters said it was important that a candidate shared their religious beliefs, and nearly half of them backed Mr. Gingrich, who has converted to Catholicism; about a fifth went for Mr. Romney, a Mormon; and nearly the same for Mr. Santorum, also a Catholic. In 2008, Mr. Romney came in third in the Republican primary, when Senator John McCain placed first and Mike Huckabee came in second.
For nearly two-thirds of voters, the recent debates were an important factor in their decision; for about 1 in 8 they were the most important factor. Mr. Gingrich was considered by many to have done particularly well in the debates; he received the votes of about half of those for whom the debates were important.
The exit poll, conducted by Edison Research for a consortium of the television networks and The Associated Press, surveyed voters as they were leaving polling places.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gingrich
Paul
Romney
Santorum CHARTS: How Different Groups Voted: Based on interviews with voters.
 Comparing the Early Voters: From polls conducted Saturday in South Carolina, Jan. 10 in New Hampshire and Jan. 3 in Iowa. (Sources: Edison Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



957 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: A Better Tax System (Instructions Included)

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He is advising Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
IT'S that time again. Start filing all those W-2s, 1099s and scraps of paper you'll need for your annual tax return. No doubt, this isn't your favorite activity. At some point, you may ask yourself whether there's a better way.
There is. Economists who study public finance have long agreed with William E. Simon, the former Treasury secretary, who said that ''the nation should have a tax system that looks like someone designed it on purpose.'' Here are four principles of tax reform that most of those economists would endorse: 
BROADEN THE BASE AND LOWER RATES The United States tax code is filled with deductions and exclusions that shrink the basis of taxation. The smaller base in turn requires higher tax rates to raise the revenue needed to fund government. The starting point of reform is to reverse this process.
This principle was endorsed both by President George W. Bush's tax reform commission in 2005 and by President Obama's deficit reduction commission in 2010. Neither report had much impact, because eliminating deductions and exclusions is politically treacherous. Yet each made a good case on the merits.
Consider the deduction for mortgage interest. The policy is politically popular, but economists have long thought it has little justification. Because of this provision, among others, our tax system gives a better treatment to residential capital than it does to corporate capital. As a result, too much of the nation's saving ends up in the form of housing rather than in business investment, where it could have increased productivity and wages.
This efficiency cost might be worth bearing if the deduction had a benefit from the standpoint of equality, but it fails there as well. Subsidies to homeowners are, in effect, penalties on renters -- after all, someone has to pick up the tab. But there is nothing wrong with renting. And once one acknowledges that renters are poorer, on average, than homeowners, the mortgage interest deduction becomes even harder to justify.
TAX CONSUMPTION RATHER THAN INCOME Almost four centuries ago, the philosopher Thomas Hobbes suggested that taxes should be based on consumption, not income. Income measures a person's contribution of labor and capital to society's production of goods and services. Consumption measures the quantity of those goods and services he gets to enjoy. Hobbes reasoned that because consumption better reflects the benefits a person receives as a member of society, it is the proper basis of taxation.
Much modern economic theory confirms that conclusion. In standard models, a consumption tax allows the economy to achieve the best allocation of resources over time, whereas an income tax needlessly discourages saving, investment and economic growth.
Moving to a consumption tax might seem to require wholesale reform of our current system. But such a politically difficult step isn't necessary. In fact, as our tax system has evolved over many years, legislators have come to appreciate the logic of taxing consumption, if only implicitly.
The United States now has an income tax, or at least that is what it is called. But because many Americans do most of their saving through tax-preferred accounts, such as I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans, they in effect pay taxes based on how much they consume. Tax reform could expand and simplify the availability of such tax-preferred savings accounts. In this way, our progressive income tax could further evolve toward a progressive consumption tax.
TAX BADS RATHER THAN GOODS A good rule of thumb is that when you tax something, you get less of it. That means that taxes on hard work, saving and entrepreneurial risk-taking impede these fundamental drivers of economic growth. The alternative is to tax those things we would like to get less of.
Consider the tax on gasoline. Driving your car is associated with various adverse side effects, which economists call externalities. These include traffic congestion, accidents, local pollution and global climate change. If the tax on gasoline were higher, people would alter their behavior to drive less. They would be more likely to take public transportation, use car pools or live closer to work. The incentives they face when deciding how much to drive would more closely match the true social costs and benefits.
Economists who have added up all the externalities associated with driving conclude that a tax exceeding $2 a gallon makes sense. That would provide substantial revenue that could be used to reduce other taxes. By taxing bad things more, we could tax good things less.
KEEP IT SIMPLE, STUPID This engineering aphorism is based on the timeless insight that complex systems are more likely to break down, often in ways the designer failed to anticipate. It applies with force to tax systems.
Indeed, unlike engineering systems, complex tax systems go awry because an army of highly paid accountants and tax lawyers is ready to take advantage of any loophole it can find. Remember when President Obama's stimulus plan offered tax credits for electric cars? Suddenly, the sale of golf carts took off.
To be sure, any tax system will be subject to gaming, which is why we will always need the Internal Revenue Service. But the more we use narrowly targeted taxes and tax breaks, the more gaming there will be.
Filling out tax returns will never be a delight. But if reform included simplification, the task might become a bit less onerous. And if a few accountants and tax lawyers were induced to become engineers and doctors instead, society will have moved a big step in the right direction.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SKIP STERLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX REFORM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CONSUMPTION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



958 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2562 words

HEADLINE: Vulture? Savior? It Depends

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
IT was, the gossip pages would later report, the talk of the Hamptons -- a midsummer night's bacchanal in the playground of the 1 percent.
Beyond the windswept dunes in Bridgehampton, at a $400,000-a-month oceanfront mansion, bright young things bubbled up and the Champagne flowed fast. Into the small hours, professional dancers in exotic clothing gyrated atop platforms. One couple twirled flaming torches. The sounds of techno boomed over the beach.
The New York Post summed up the evening's Dionysian mysteries with the following headline: ''Nude Frolic in Tycoon's Pool.''
The Post's tycoon, and the party's host, was a financier named Marc J. Leder, and those weekend revels last July had the East End of Long Island buzzing. Like many deal makers, though, Mr. Leder, 50, is virtually unknown outside financial circles. But from his headquarters in Boca Raton, Fla., he presides over a multibillion-dollar private empire. He is a practitioner of a Wall Street art that helped define an age of hyperwealth, and which has now been dragged into the white-hot spotlight of presidential politics: private equity. 
It was through private equity that one Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, amassed his wealth -- and, it turns out, it was through private equity that Mr. Romney first met Mr. Leder. A couple of months after the blowout in Bridgehampton, Mr. Leder was host for a fund-raiser at his Boca Raton home for Mr. Romney's campaign. But the connection goes back even further. Years ago, a visit to Mr. Romney's investment firm inspired Mr. Leder to get into private equity in the first place. Mr. Romney was an early investor in some of the deals done by Mr. Leder's investment company, Sun Capital, which today oversees about $8 billion in equity.
Mr. Romney's own time in the private equity business, at Bain Capital, has provoked fierce attacks from Republican rivals and others. It has also prompted a lot of questions, including the big one: What good is this business, anyway? Detractors say private equity has enriched a handful of financiers at the expense of ordinary Americans. The deal makers, this line goes, buy companies and then bleed the life out of them. Jobs are often among the casualties.
Whether there's truth to such claims depends on whom you ask. Private equity executives, as well as Mr. Romney, who left Bain in 1999, say the industry fixes troubled companies and ultimately creates jobs. Whatever the case, three decades after this sort of deal-making burst onto the scene in the merger mania of the 1980s, there are surprisingly few solid answers from either side.
What is certain is that buyout specialists upended the old order and made vast fortunes for themselves. Fueled by easy money from banks, and from endowments and pension funds, these private investors were able to buy companies with borrowed money and put down relatively little of their own cash.
Today, many of these private kingdoms rival the nation's mightiest public companies. In all, the private equity industry oversees $3 trillion in global assets, according to Preqin, the research firm. Buyout kings control more than 14,000 American companies, including brands like Hilton Hotels and Burger King.
BUT financiers weren't the only ones to embrace private equity. On the campaign trail, Rick Perry called private equity artists ''vulture capitalists.'' But as governor of Texas, he blessed the largest corporate buyout in history -- the $44.4 billion takeover of the utility TXU by several investment firms in 2007. Indeed, as in many other places nationwide, public pension funds in Texas used public money to bet on private equity, in hopes of generating the investment returns they needed to pay retirees.
Against this backdrop, the story of Marc Leder might seem a footnote in the nation's economic ledger. But it is a story worth knowing. That's because, in many ways, Mr. Leder personifies the debates now swirling around this lucrative corner of finance.
To his critics, he represents everything that's wrong with this setup. In recent years, a large number of the companies that Sun Capital has acquired have run into serious trouble, eliminated jobs or both. Since 2008, some 25 of its companies -- roughly one of every five it owns -- have filed for bankruptcy.
Among the losers was Friendly's, the restaurant chain known for its Jim Dandy sundaes and Fribble shakes. (Sun Capital was accused by a federal agency of pushing Friendly's into bankruptcy last year to avoid paying pensions to the chain's employees; Sun disputes that contention.) Another company that sank into bankruptcy was Real Mex, owner of the Chevy's restaurant chain. In that case, Mr. Leder lost money for his investors not once, but twice.
Yet Mr. Leder doesn't seem to be suffering too much himself. In fact, he is living so large that he can't avoid the limelight. Last July, he used part of his personal fortune to join a group of investors in buying the Philadelphia 76ers. In December, he was spotted on St. Bart's with Russell Simmons, of Def Jam and Phat Farm fame, and Rachel Zoe, the celebrity stylist. That again landed him in The New York Post, which dubbed him a ''private equity party boy.''
Mr. Leder says that characterization couldn't be further from the truth. He focuses on what are known as ''scratch and dent'' deals, which typically involve companies that are struggling to begin with. One-third of the companies Sun Capital has bought are losing money. It's a tricky game in good times, and downright dangerous in bad ones. Mr. Leder and his defenders say Sun Capital has saved many companies and, with them, many, many jobs.
''I think the portrayal of me as having wild and crazy parties is absolutely incorrect,'' Mr. Leder said during a wide-ranging interview in Sun Capital's offices in Midtown Manhattan. ''I spend a small percentage throwing some parties, attending some parties. I like music. I like to dance. But rather than reporting on how I spend 340 days and nights of my year, the media likes to report on the other 25.''
Paul Jones, chief executive of the Midwest retailer ShopKo, which Sun Capital acquired in 2005, said Mr. Leder has kept a close eye on his company. ''I get e-mails from him, usually on Sunday mornings, in which he's says we had an impressive week or sometimes it's just to give our team an 'attaboy,' '' Mr. Jones said.
FOR more than 28 years, Helen Smolak worked at the Friendly's in Denham, Mass. Day in and day out, she served Big Beef Burgers and Fribbles, collected tips and made a decent living.
All that changed one evening last October. That was when Ms. Smolak's supervisor called to tell her the restaurant was shutting down -- immediately.
''It was my family. That was my home,'' said Ms. Smolak, 56. ''Friendly's always came first. I was supposed to retire with these people and with this company.''
What went wrong? Sun Capital acquired Friendly's in 2007 for $395 million -- an 8 percent premium based on Friendly's stock price at the time. But now Sun was saying the weak economy and the rising prices of milk and other ingredients had pushed Friendly's, a 76-year-old chain, to the brink.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that helps safeguard corporate pensions, wasn't so sure. It accused Sun Capital in bankruptcy court filings of using the bankruptcy to shift Friendly's pension burden onto the agency.
''That's absolutely not true,'' Mr. Leder said. Friendly's pension fund, he said, was underfunded well before Sun Capital bought the company. The outcome, he added, is simply the way the bankruptcy process works.
''We don't make the rules,'' he said with a shrug. He said the matter was settled with the agency for a ''nominal'' sum.
Bankruptcy is never pretty. But, in this case, Sun Capital was particularly adept at getting what it wanted. Only months after Friendly's went bankrupt, Mr. Leder has already regained control of the company. It was a calculated move, and one that is potentially lucrative for Sun Capital and its investors. In filing for bankruptcy, Friendly's also cut hundreds of jobs, closed dozens of restaurants and bought some time to regroup. Now, if Sun Capital can turn around Friendly's, it might eventually be able to sell the chain at a profit.
And profit, after all, is what private equity is really about. Among the Sun Capital investors that stand to benefit from all of this are the New York State Teachers' Retirement System, the Indiana State Teachers' Retirement Fund and the Ford Foundation.
Jeffrey States is the investment officer for the Nebraska Investment Council, another Sun Capital investor. He said some private equity firms do provide information about how their dealings might affect things like jobs. But not all investors ask for such details.
''The primary objective is returns,'' Mr. States said.
Mr. Leder, for his part, has never been shy about turning a profit. He and another banker, Rodger R. Krouse, were working at Lehman Brothers when they saw the huge money-making potential of private equity. They hatched their plan to get into the business one April afternoon in 1995, after a meeting at Mr. Romney's Bain Capital in Boston.
The executives at Bain had been grousing about a deal in which Bain had doubled its money. But the Bain executives were lamenting that if they had sold sooner, they could have made much more.
On the plane back to New York, Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse sat stunned.
''We're looking at each other saying, 'This is an industry where double your money is not that good of a deal?' '' Mr. Leder recalls.
At 10 the next morning, Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse marched into their bosses' offices and quit. They then decided to base their new private equity firm in Boca Raton, and became its co-chief executives, believing the location would give them an edge in spotting potential acquisitions in the Southeast before their rivals in New York and Boston. But competitors kept outbidding them for companies.
It took 20 months, but they finally got their foot in the door. Friends and family members invested in their first dozen deals. Mr. Romney also invested personally in some early transactions, including an acquisition of a company that made speakers for computers and another that made carbon paper.
(Mr. Romney's 2011 financial disclosures included stakes worth less than $15,000 apiece in two Sun-controlled companies -- a pittance, given his estimated wealth of as much as $250 million. A spokeswoman for Mr. Romney's campaign did not respond to an e-mail or a call seeking comment.)
Sun Capital soon carved a niche in doing turnarounds. In 1997, it acquired a majority stake in a maker of injection-molded polypropylene panels. By 2002, that company had more than doubled its sales.
One success led to another. Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse invested $1.5 million in a company that supplied parts for Corvettes and walked away with $20 million. Two Sun investors were so tickled that they bought each man a red Corvette.
Such successes aside, Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse make something of an odd couple. Mr. Krouse has the quiet demeanor of an accountant and tends to shift in his seat when conversations turn to his private life. (Former associates say he is a family man who likes to spend his spare time reading.)
Mr. Leder, by contrast, is bigger than life. He storms into a room and seems to suck out all of the air. Several former colleagues say he appears to have a photographic memory. He speaks rapidly and rarely holds back.
In a conversation about his business dealings, he segued into how his father wanted him to be a doctor but that he opted for other pursuits because he hated dissecting frogs in biology class. And he mentioned how he used crushed graham crackers as the secret ingredient in the pancakes he used to make for his youngest daughter.
He also said he started reading The Wall Street Journal when he was 12, and that in high school he delivered chickens and started a D. J. business. And he said that he typically sleeps for two to three hours at a time at night before waking up to answer e-mails.
AS word got out about Sun Capital's early investment successes, pension funds and endowments were soon clamoring to get into its funds. Sun Capital raised fund after fund, each bigger than the last. In 2007, it raised $6 billion for a single fund. Sun Capital had hit the big time.
Then the Great Recession struck. The private equity boom turned bust fast.
By early 2009, numerous companies that Sun Capital had acquired were struggling to survive. Sun was racked by internal dissent. And Mr. Leder's personal life had hit a rough patch.
By that spring, several Sun companies, including Drug Fair, Big 10 Tires and Mark IV Industries, had spiraled into bankruptcy. The firm had already taken losses on a large deal, a hostile takeover of the fashion company Kellwood, which Sun Capital had acquired without the usual due diligence.
Then came other, more personal blows. Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse both lost money that they had personally invested with Bernard L. Madoff. Mr. Leder and his wife of 22 years, Lisa, began to go through a messy divorce. She demanded half of his total wealth, which she contended was more than $400 million at the time. The two eventually settled for an undisclosed amount.
Its business in retreat, Sun Capital laid off a number of its own employees. Those who stayed were told they would receive no cash bonuses. Instead, everyone was given a bigger slice of the portfolio of companies that, at that time, was losing value every day.
Angry employees fired off a list of dozens of pointed questions to Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse, asking how much money the two co-founders had been paid and how much they had taken out of Sun Capital. The employees wanted to know how a firm that had just raised a $6 billion fund, and which was collecting about $120 million a year in management fees alone, could possibly be running low on cash.
Mr. Leder and Mr. Krouse had, in fact, already paid themselves handsomely for their giant fund. As 50-50 partners, they kept the first year's fees, in cash, for themselves, according to former employees. A spokesman for Sun Capital declined to comment.
Mr. Leder said that even during its worst year, Sun Capital booked a small profit. He denied that his decisions were driven by his own financial interests. And Sun Capital paid its employees cash bonuses early for 2009 , he said, because ''we realized we had pulled in the reins a little too hard.''
To critics who say that Sun Capital grew too big, too fast, Mr. Leder pointed to ShopKo, which it bought for $1.2 billion. Sun brought in new management, freshened up stores and plans to merge it with another Midwest retailer, Pamida. Sun Capital has already paid itself a dividend on that deal, and Mr. Leder says he expects it will generate big returns.
In a smaller deal, Sun Capital bought the Midwest retailer Gordmans for $56 million in 2008. It doubled its returns through two dividend payments and proceeds from the Gordmans initial public offering in 2010.
When asked if private equity could withstand the heat of election-year politics, Mr. Leder seems unfazed. He is among the top contributors to the political action committee Restore Our Future, a so-called super-PAC created to help Mr. Romney. He insists his business isn't politics -- it's private equity.
''I don't worry about what I can't affect,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marc J. Leder, one of two chief executives at Sun Capital, is known by some for his partying. But he says he would rather draw attention for working hard to make private equity deals that turn around struggling companies. Of the sometimes contentious bankruptcy process, he says, ''We don't make the rules.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE STONE/REUTERS
TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LAURA RAUCH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ED ANDRIESKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) (BU1)
CHARTS: Monster Buyouts: Private equity burst onto the scene during the merger mania of the 1980s, but most of the biggest deals occurred during 2006-7, just before the bottom fell out of the economy. Here's a look at some of the largest private equity buyouts of all time. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Big Money: Over the past decade, private equity has grown to become a signature business of Wall Street. The industry today manages nearly $3 trillion in assets. (BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); FUNDRAISING (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); MERGERS (71%); POLITICS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); DANCE (56%); DANCERS (56%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



959 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: What We Give Up for Health Care

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL. 
An oncologist, former White House adviser and a vice provost and professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times.

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to health care, most liberals are committed above all to ensuring that every American has insurance. In their view, the greatest achievement of the health care reform act passed under President Obama is to finally erase the moral stain of the United States' being the only major developed country without universal coverage. But we also hold the questionable distinction of having the world's most expensive health care system -- what about cost control? For many liberals, that just sounds like a cover for heartless conservatives who care only about cutting benefits and not about helping people in need.
But liberals are wrong to ignore costs. The more we spend on health care, the less we can spend on other things we value. If liberals care about middle-class salaries, public education and other state-funded services, then they need to care about controlling health care costs every bit as much as conservatives do. 
Over the past 30 years, health care inflation has been a major reason average wages have remained stagnant. For employers, the cost of labor is total compensation -- wages plus benefits. As the cost of benefits rises, wages tend not to rise, or to rise much more slowly. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as health care costs skyrocketed between 2000 and 2009, workers' total compensation increased by 1.3 percent per year, but workers' hourly wages alone increased by just 0.7 percent per year, significantly below the rate of inflation.
During those 30 years, the only sustained period when real hourly earnings increased was 1990 through 1998 -- which coincided almost exactly with a period of unusually low increases in health care costs.
The middle and working classes are also hit by the rising price of health care when states are forced to cut other services to pay for it. Last year, Medicaid spending was estimated to account for nearly a quarter of total state spending -- the largest portion of their budgets -- and it's getting only more expensive. States really have just three ways to make ends meet: restrict Medicaid eligibility (which most have done already), raise taxes or reduce funding for other programs to pay more for health care.
And so states have turned to cutting funding for public education -- the next biggest item in their budgets. In 2010, 29 states spent more on Medicaid than on primary and secondary education. By the middle of 2011, 18 states had cut funding for kindergarten through 12th-grade education, and 19 for higher education. It's no surprise that, in the last decade, the average in-state tuition at public four-year colleges rose 72 percent to over $8,000 per year, beyond what many students can afford. While health care costs do not account for all of this rise, they are a crucial factor.
But perhaps the simplest reason that costs should matter to liberals is this: as health care costs rise, so too do the number of uninsured Americans. According to an analysis I did a few years ago, for every 10 percent increase in the average cost of family health insurance premiums, the ranks of the uninsured (excluding seniors covered by Medicare) increased by 0.55 percent. When premiums doubled between 2000 and 2009, the percentage of Americans who were covered by employer-sponsored health insurance dropped to 61 percent from 69 percent.
This relationship between cost and coverage will change somewhat in 2014, when the provision of the health care reform act that provides coverage for the uninsured through Medicaid and subsidies kicks in. But even with subsidies, some Americans will find rising premiums unaffordable and will be forced to opt out and pay the penalty for not having insurance. Nor will the act do much to ease the strain on state budgets. An estimated 21.8 million more adults and children will be covered by Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program. While states will be responsible for only a small portion of these new enrollees, there will be added costs. And they will no longer be able to restrict eligibility to save money.
There is one final cause that is close to liberals' hearts and threatened by the projected rise in Medicare and Medicaid costs. The corresponding rise in the national debt will weaken America financially and diminish our voice on the global stage, allowing other countries less friendly to human rights and democracy to become more powerful.
There is an inevitable trade-off between rising health care costs and things liberals really care about, like access to college and good wages for working Americans. We cannot have it all. The health care reform act will help us save -- mainly by changing how physicians and hospitals are paid and delivering better care to our most expensive patients. But more can be done: for starters, we could speed up the implementation of payment reform, stop Medicare payments for tests and treatments that provide no benefit and endorse competitive bidding for medical goods and services.
During the campaign season and into 2013 -- a vital year for health care legislation -- liberals must make the issue of cost control their own.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); STATISTICS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



960 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Within Limits

BYLINE: By MARK SCHMITT. 
Mark Schmitt is a senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institute and the former executive editor of The American Prospect.

 BODY:
THE AGE OF AUSTERITY
How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics
By Thomas Byrne Edsall
Illustrated. 256 pp. Doubleday. $24.95.
Most books about contemporary politics are designed for quick obsolescence. A notable exception to the rule is the work of Thomas Byrne Edsall, whose five careful books, starting with ''The New Politics of Inequality'' in 1984, are still found on the shelves and in the footnotes of everyone who writes about politics -- left and right, academics and journalists alike. Edsall's distinctive method combines his own reporting with rigorous use of data from across the social sciences, including psychology and anthropology. Though his previous book, ''Building Red America,'' seemed poorly timed when it appeared in 2006 just as Karl Rove's quest for permanent Republican dominance collapsed, its insights into conservative attitudes about authority and autonomy remain as useful as anything written more recently about the Tea Party and the right-wing resurgence. 
The great topic of Edsall's life's work is the breakdown of the New Deal-era liberal coalition at the intersection of race, resentment and inequality. While analysts often sharply distinguish economic from social issues, Edsall sees a ''chain reaction,'' to use the title of his 1991 book, in which race, economics and highly emotional topics like immigration interact to crush any real hope of a new progressive coalition. When minorities acquire new rights or benefits, it comes at a cost, real or perceived, for established white voters.
This story reads very differently in 2012 than it would have in 1984, when the ''Reagan Democrats'' defected from the New Deal coalition. Now it's the children and even the grandchildren of the Reagan Democrats who make up the middle of the voting population, and a Rising American Electorate (in the pollster Stan Greenberg's phrase) made up of professionals, unmarried women and young voters as well as blacks, Hispanics and Asians threatens to outnumber the old resentful whites. More than threatens -- the Rising American Electorate won a presidential race in 2008, giving the Democratic candidate a majority of the vote for the first time since 1976. Edsall, a regular contributor to The New York Times's ''Campaign Stops'' election blog, warns Democrats that this might have been a one-time-only event -- and, indeed, the traditional American electorate made itself heard in 2010. The newer voters are more difficult to mobilize than older whites, and conservatives have become adept at activating the gut reactions of their voters. The buttons they push are those of race and immigration, and increasingly those of economics, which is now depicted in terms of absolutely incompatible worldviews. Consider Mitt Romney's claim that President Obama believes in ''equality of outcomes,'' while real Americans believe in ''equality of opportunity.''
One day we'll look back and find such polarizing language strange, given the broad consensus in favor of a mixed economy with some regulation and a social safety net. It is scarcity, Edsall contends, that turns modest policy differences into zero-sum showdowns between his ''haves'' and aspiring ''have-nots.'' Drawing on predictions that the economist Lester Thurow made following an earlier ''era of limits,'' the late 1970s, he sees a long and ugly period of zero-sum conflict over immigration, education and programs that serve primarily low-income people or minorities, like disability benefits. Edsall's ''haves'' are not the rich, but older conservatives who have ''income from savings, which they do not want more heavily taxed, and their Medicare coverage and Social Security benefits, which they do not want diverted to 'ObamaCare' or any venture transferring tax dollars to those with lower incomes.'' In Edsall's framework, it no longer seems paradoxical that Republicans can simultaneously attack a government health program, propose to gut Medicare for those under 55, and pledge to protect that same program faithfully against Democratic cuts. In a climate of austerity and limits, struggling older voters cling all the more desperately to what they have, and are all the more willing to see that same thing denied to those who are not them or don't look like them.
It's not always clear, though, exactly what limits Edsall is talking about. That ambivalence is visible right on the cover: The title is ''The Age of Austerity,'' but the subtitle refers to ''scarcity.'' Throughout, Edsall uses the two words, scarcity and austerity, interchangeably. But they are not synonyms. Scarcity is a grim reality. Austerity, particularly fiscal austerity on the part of government, is a choice. Sometimes austerity is the appropriate response to scarcity, but sometimes, as in a recession, it's not.
Edsall concentrates most of his attention on elective austerity, like cuts in programs for people with disabilities. These lend themselves well to his analysis, but they are not examples of actual scarcity. He attributes the ''scarce supply'' of tax dollars for public programs to the federal budget deficit, but in an extraordinarily wealthy nation with effective tax rates at their lowest level in decades and interest rates approaching zero, the decision to cut services rather than raise taxes or borrow is simply a choice not to spend available resources on those services.
Though Edsall gestures favorably toward the economist James K. Galbraith's argument that long-term deficit projections are unreliable and unimportant, he still treats them as absolute constraints on spending, requiring ''drastic action'' to undo. But even if one doesn't go as far as Galbraith, all it would take to bring the deficit into a manageable range would be a return to tax levels of the late 1990s, elimination of the preferential treatment of income from investments, and some systemic changes in health care delivery that would bring down Medicare costs. This is hardly drastic and need not come at much cost to Edsall's ''haves.'' In any case, it's worth considering a different explanation of our current impasse: representatives of the very wealthy (not Edsall's ''haves,'' but several rungs higher) have been able to use their power to create a political dialogue in which austerity by choice creates a nasty, limited politics that leads only to more anger and division, closing out the possibility of real progress.
There are two real scarcities in our near future, and Edsall touches on both only lightly. The first is the limited supply of energy we can use without imperiling the planet. The second is the limited supply of the kind of jobs that once enabled millions of families with modest educations to move into the middle class. Economists increasingly agree that even after our current crisis ends, structural changes in the global economy will make it harder for those entering the work force to acquire the sort of moderately skilled jobs that boosted the Reagan Democrats of an earlier time. Addressing these problems requires both some sacrifice and some imagination. The concept of ''green jobs'' once offered hope of addressing both scarcities, but the effort to nurture new clean energy industries seems to have foundered on overstated promises and the unnecessary limits imposed by the politics of austerity.
While Edsall may be right that scarcity and austerity encourage conservative, backlash politics, it's worth recalling how the previous ''era of limits'' came to an end: Jimmy Carter's dour projections were supplanted by Ronald Reagan's affable, optimistic ''morning in America.'' These days, both the economic news and the bitter, deadlocked political process have made it impossible for Obama or anyone else to paint a persuasive vision of a better future. Still, one can hope that the future of American politics will lie not with those who can best manipulate scarcity and austerity to their advantage, but with those who can construct a convincing alternative.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators in San Francisco protest cuts to Medicaid and MediCal in response to California's budget crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); IMMIGRATION (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Age of Austerity, The: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



961 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Petty Differences Mask Consensus on Teachers

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Popular culture has surely produced no more satiric a view of that great scourge of public progress, the Apathetic Teacher, than last year's bluntly titled comedy ''Bad Teacher.'' In the film, Cameron Diaz plays Elizabeth Halsey, a junior high school teacher so incompetent and chemically regulated that she shows movies all day, barely registers one student's slapping another with coleslaw and steals the answers to a state-administered exam. A bonus of $5,700 is to be given to the teacher whose students score highest on the test, and Halsey pursues it to pay for her adventures in plastic surgery. Perhaps you watched the movie wondering whether it had been subsidized by a political action committee aimed at dismantling the teachers' union. 
Regarding teachers' unions with a certain distaste, maintaining the belief that they exist to champion inadequacy, is now virtually required for membership in the affluent, competitive classes, no matter an affiliation on the right or left. Over the past two weeks, as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have aggressively pushed for phasing in a new, more rigorous teacher evaluation process -- with tens of millions of dollars in state and federal aid to schools at stake -- they have deployed a rhetoric of enmity, one meant to suggest that the state's teachers' unions are committed to keeping talentless hacks in jobs they can't handle. As the governor put it on Monday, ''Our schools are not an employment program.''
What has been lost in these performances of reproach and imperiousness is the extent to which the city and state, and the related unions (the United Federation of Teachers in the first instance and New York State United Teachers in the second) are generally in agreement over how classroom evaluations ought to be held and what, in fact, constitutes sound teaching. As it happens, the state union was at work devising substantive evaluation reform more than a year before Mr. Cuomo even took office.
The history unfolds as follows: In 2010, the state passed a law requiring school districts to institute new teacher evaluation systems to replace the thumbs-up-thumbs-down, Siskel & Ebert model that previously prevailed. The new system would tie 40 percent of a teacher's rating to standardized test scores and 60 percent to observations of the teacher in class.
Keeping the new assessment protocols from operating right now -- something the mayor and governor seem so desperately to want -- are not vast differences in philosophy but nagging disagreements over bureaucratic implementation: at the city level, a dispute between the United Federation and the Department of Education over how appeals of poor teacher ratings might be arbitrated, and at the state level, a lawsuit filed by the union against the Board of Regents for pushing the 2010 law beyond its intent. A decision handed down last summer in State Supreme Court in Albany sided largely with labor, but the state chose to pursue the time-depleting course of an appeal nevertheless.
Where a great deal of consensus lies is around the ideas of a woman named Charlotte Danielson, who 16 years ago created a method for evaluating teachers that judges them according to four domains, each with numerous categories and subcategories: the quality of questions and discussion techniques; a knowledge of students' special needs; the expectations set for learning and achievement; and the teacher's involvement in professional development activities. The section for assessing the strength of the classroom-learning environment has 15 criteria -- down to the placement of furniture.
Ms. Danielson's program, which also trains principals in how to properly execute the evaluations, is already being used in several states and on a pilot basis in 140 New York City schools (though in the experimental phase the outcomes will have no consequence). In November, a study out of the University of Chicago that looked at Ms. Danielson's method as it was practiced in Chicago schools determined that it was not only a considerable improvement over an old evaluation system but that, just as significant, it established a shared definition of what good teaching was.
Ms. Danielson, who runs her own educational consulting firm in Princeton, N.J., is perfectly suited to appeal to potentially opposing sides in the debates about education reform. As an Oxford-trained economist, she thinks both entrepreneurially and progressively. In the late 1960s she gave up research stints at the Council of Economic Advisers and the Brookings Institution to work as a teacher in Washington's ailing public school system.
''If all you do is judge teachers by test results,'' she told me when I visited her this week, ''it doesn't tell you what you should do differently.''
Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, speaks about Ms. Danielson almost as though he were producing an infomercial for her. ''I taught for 13 years, and I would have loved to have been trained in this method,'' he said. ''I have no doubt it would have made me a better teacher.'' And yet he, too, is capable of the kind of retaliatory small-mindedness that so often halts the momentum of winning ideas. So offended was he by the mayor's ''obnoxious'' attitude toward the union in his State of the City address that Mr. Mulgrew disinvited the Education Department from sessions in which principals were being trained in Ms. Danielson's methods.
While the intensity around evaluation reform is ultimately a very good thing, it sidesteps something crucial: that we can't attract the best and the brightest teachers without drastically changing the status of the profession. Paying good teachers more is important -- and the mayor, admirably, has committed to doing that -- but money isn't solely at issue. Each year hundreds of intelligent people in their 20s move to apartments in Astoria and lofts in Greenpoint with their degrees from Oberlin and Brown and the University of Michigan to pursue glamorous work that often pays excruciatingly little -- assisting documentary filmmakers, assisting assistants at prestigious magazines. Some of their friends may go to Teach for America, but many of them will do their two years and move on.
Maybe what teaching needs is a new movie that makes it seem as hot as Conde Nast.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE CLASSROOM: The city's schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg visiting 11th grade students in the Bronx on Wednesday. Left, Cameron Diaz in the film ''Bad Teacher.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
GEMMA LAMANA/COLUMBIA PICTURES)
 IMPROVED APPROACH: Charlotte Danielson, an economist, developed a method for evaluating teachers that has generated a great deal of consensus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); LITIGATION (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (55%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (54%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (65%); ANDREW CUOMO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



962 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina's Divisive Message

 BODY:
Since it was first held 32 years ago, the South Carolina Republican primary has been won by the party's most electable candidate, the one backed by the Republican establishment and invariably the winner of the nomination. On Saturday, the state veered in an extreme direction, and the outcome spoke poorly for a party that allowed itself to be manipulated by the lowest form of campaigning.
Newt Gingrich won the primary by a decisive margin of 12.5 percentage points, and there is no mystery about how he did it. Two-thirds of voters interviewed in exit polls said they made their decision on the basis of the two South Carolina debates, where Mr. Gingrich exploited racial resentment and hatred of the news media to connect with furious voters. 
He was helped by Mitt Romney's halting answers about his tax returns and his finances, and by Rick Santorum's tepid campaign, in which he compared himself to warm porridge. But Mr. Gingrich won this largely on his own. He had a much better sense of the raw, destructive anger at President Obama swirling around a highly conservative and combative state, and he reflected it back to voters everywhere he went.
South Carolina has moved sharply rightward since Mr. Obama arrived on the national scene. In 2000, 24 percent of state voters said they were ''very conservative,'' but that number jumped to 34 percent in 2008. Now it is up to 37 percent, according to exit polls. Two-thirds of Saturday's voters said they supported the Tea Party, reflecting the election in 2010 of four South Carolina freshmen who are among the most extreme members of the House.
In one of the most telling results of the exit polls, most voters said that cutting the federal budget was more important than encouraging job growth. At a time when more than 13 million people remain unemployed, these voters do not want the government to do a thing about it, possibly because it might improve Mr. Obama's re-election chances.
Mr. Romney's foam-rubber ideology was not built for an electorate this rigid. Mr. Santorum's profound social conservatism might normally have played well, particularly because two-thirds of primary voters said they were evangelical or born-again Christians, but he appealed only to Republican minds, not hearts.
It was Mr. Gingrich who pulled the race into the gutter, where he found considerable support. He repeatedly called Mr. Obama ''the greatest food-stamp president in American history,'' and lectured a black questioner at Monday's debate about the amount of federal handouts to blacks, suggesting their work ethic was questionable.
On Thursday, in the derisive tones of a radio talk-show host, he said Mr. Obama's cabinet looked like Mickey Mouse and Goofy. At that night's debate, he lashed into the moderator for asking a perfectly reasonable question about his ex-wife's allegation that he wanted an open marriage, saying it was typical of an ''elite media'' that was trying to protect the president by attacking Republicans.
That was just what South Carolina voters wanted to hear, the signal that he would not only challenge Mr. Obama but work to bloody him, to destroy his dignity. As one voter told a reporter, ''I think we've reached a point where we need someone who's mean.''
They got that candidate on Saturday. Mr. Gingrich shocked Mr. Romney by making an issue of the jobs he destroyed in his leveraged-buyout firm, and he is clearly prepared to take negative campaigning against Mr. Obama to a new low. In his victory speech, he even descended into Rick Perry territory by accusing the ''elite media'' of anti-religion bias. Is that really what Republicans across the country want from their nominee, or is South Carolina, with its history of acute racial tension and contrarianism, simply sending a singular, extreme message?
It is still hard to imagine a path to the nomination for a divisive candidate like Mr. Gingrich, let alone one to the White House. If he continues along this muddy road, there is still time for Republicans in upcoming states to repudiate him, and demonstrate that South Carolina has become an aberration rather than a bellwether.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ETHICS (75%); HISTORY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (62%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



963 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE IECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4876 words

HEADLINE: How U.S. Lost Out On iPhone Work

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and KEITH BRADSHER; David Barboza, Peter Lattman and Catherine Rampell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Barack Obama joined Silicon Valley's top luminaries for dinner in California last February, each guest was asked to come with a question for the president.
But as Steven P. Jobs of Apple spoke, President Obama interrupted with an inquiry of his own: what would it take to make iPhones in the United States?
Not long ago, Apple boasted that its products were made in America. Today, few are. Almost all of the 70 million iPhones, 30 million iPads and 59 million other products Apple sold last year were manufactured overseas.
Why can't that work come home? Mr. Obama asked. 
Mr. Jobs's reply was unambiguous. ''Those jobs aren't coming back,'' he said, according to another dinner guest.
The president's question touched upon a central conviction at Apple. It isn't just that workers are cheaper abroad. Rather, Apple's executives believe the vast scale of overseas factories as well as the flexibility, diligence and industrial skills of foreign workers have so outpaced their American counterparts that ''Made in the U.S.A.'' is no longer a viable option for most Apple products.
Apple has become one of the best-known, most admired and most imitated companies on earth, in part through an unrelenting mastery of global operations. Last year, it earned over $400,000 in profit per employee, more than Goldman Sachs, Exxon Mobil or Google.
However, what has vexed Mr. Obama as well as economists and policy makers is that Apple -- and many of its high-technology peers -- are not nearly as avid in creating American jobs as other famous companies were in their heydays.
Apple employs 43,000 people in the United States and 20,000 overseas, a small fraction of the over 400,000 American workers at General Motors in the 1950s, or the hundreds of thousands at General Electric in the 1980s. Many more people work for Apple's contractors: an additional 700,000 people engineer, build and assemble iPads, iPhones and Apple's other products. But almost none of them work in the United States. Instead, they work for foreign companies in Asia, Europe and elsewhere, at factories that almost all electronics designers rely upon to build their wares.
''Apple's an example of why it's so hard to create middle-class jobs in the U.S. now,'' said Jared Bernstein, who until last year was an economic adviser to the White House.
''If it's the pinnacle of capitalism, we should be worried.''
Apple executives say that going overseas, at this point, is their only option. One former executive described how the company relied upon a Chinese factory to revamp iPhone manufacturing just weeks before the device was due on shelves. Apple had redesigned the iPhone's screen at the last minute, forcing an assembly line overhaul. New screens began arriving at the plant near midnight.
A foreman immediately roused 8,000 workers inside the company's dormitories, according to the executive. Each employee was given a biscuit and a cup of tea, guided to a workstation and within half an hour started a 12-hour shift fitting glass screens into beveled frames. Within 96 hours, the plant was producing over 10,000 iPhones a day.
''The speed and flexibility is breathtaking,'' the executive said. ''There's no American plant that can match that.''
Similar stories could be told about almost any electronics company -- and outsourcing has also become common in hundreds of industries, including accounting, legal services, banking, auto manufacturing and pharmaceuticals.
But while Apple is far from alone, it offers a window into why the success of some prominent companies has not translated into large numbers of domestic jobs. What's more, the company's decisions pose broader questions about what corporate America owes Americans as the global and national economies are increasingly intertwined.
''Companies once felt an obligation to support American workers, even when it wasn't the best financial choice,'' said Betsey Stevenson, the chief economist at the Labor Department until last September. ''That's disappeared. Profits and efficiency have trumped generosity.''
Companies and other economists say that notion is naive. Though Americans are among the most educated workers in the world, the nation has stopped training enough people in the mid-level skills that factories need, executives say.
To thrive, companies argue they need to move work where it can generate enough profits to keep paying for innovation. Doing otherwise risks losing even more American jobs over time, as evidenced by the legions of once-proud domestic manufacturers -- including G.M. and others -- that have shrunk as nimble competitors have emerged.
Apple was provided with extensive summaries of The New York Times's reporting for this article, but the company, which has a reputation for secrecy, declined to comment.
This article is based on interviews with more than three dozen current and former Apple employees and contractors -- many of whom requested anonymity to protect their jobs -- as well as economists, manufacturing experts, international trade specialists, technology analysts, academic researchers, employees at Apple's suppliers, competitors and corporate partners, and government officials.
Privately, Apple executives say the world is now such a changed place that it is a mistake to measure a company's contribution simply by tallying its employees -- though they note that Apple employs more workers in the United States than ever before.
They say Apple's success has benefited the economy by empowering entrepreneurs and creating jobs at companies like cellular providers and businesses shipping Apple products. And, ultimately, they say curing unemployment is not their job.
''We sell iPhones in over a hundred countries,'' a current Apple executive said. ''We don't have an obligation to solve America's problems. Our only obligation is making the best product possible.''
'I Want a Glass Screen'
In 2007, a little over a month before the iPhone was scheduled to appear in stores, Mr. Jobs beckoned a handful of lieutenants into an office. For weeks, he had been carrying a prototype of the device in his pocket.
Mr. Jobs angrily held up his iPhone, angling it so everyone could see the dozens of tiny scratches marring its plastic screen, according to someone who attended the meeting. He then pulled his keys from his jeans.
People will carry this phone in their pocket, he said. People also carry their keys in their pocket. ''I won't sell a product that gets scratched,'' he said tensely. The only solution was using unscratchable glass instead. ''I want a glass screen, and I want it perfect in six weeks.''
After one executive left that meeting, he booked a flight to Shenzhen, China. If Mr. Jobs wanted perfect, there was nowhere else to go.
For over two years, the company had been working on a project -- code-named Purple 2 -- that presented the same questions at every turn: how do you completely reimagine the cellphone? And how do you design it at the highest quality -- with an unscratchable screen, for instance -- while also ensuring that millions can be manufactured quickly and inexpensively enough to earn a significant profit?
The answers, almost every time, were found outside the United States. Though components differ between versions, all iPhones contain hundreds of parts, an estimated 90 percent of which are manufactured abroad. Advanced semiconductors have come from Germany and Taiwan, memory from Korea and Japan, display panels and circuitry from Korea and Taiwan, chipsets from Europe and rare metals from Africa and Asia. And all of it is put together in China.
In its early days, Apple usually didn't look beyond its own backyard for manufacturing solutions. A few years after Apple began building the Macintosh in 1983, for instance, Mr. Jobs bragged that it was ''a machine that is made in America.'' In 1990, while Mr. Jobs was running NeXT, which was eventually bought by Apple, the executive told a reporter that ''I'm as proud of the factory as I am of the computer.'' As late as 2002, top Apple executives occasionally drove two hours northeast of their headquarters to visit the company's iMac plant in Elk Grove, Calif.
But by 2004, Apple had largely turned to foreign manufacturing. Guiding that decision was Apple's operations expert, Timothy D. Cook, who replaced Mr. Jobs as chief executive last August, six weeks before Mr. Jobs's death. Most other American electronics companies had already gone abroad, and Apple, which at the time was struggling, felt it had to grasp every advantage.
In part, Asia was attractive because the semiskilled workers there were cheaper. But that wasn't driving Apple. For technology companies, the cost of labor is minimal compared with the expense of buying parts and managing supply chains that bring together components and services from hundreds of companies.
For Mr. Cook, the focus on Asia ''came down to two things,'' said one former high-ranking Apple executive. Factories in Asia ''can scale up and down faster'' and ''Asian supply chains have surpassed what's in the U.S.'' The result is that ''we can't compete at this point,'' the executive said.
The impact of such advantages became obvious as soon as Mr. Jobs demanded glass screens in 2007.
For years, cellphone makers had avoided using glass because it required precision in cutting and grinding that was extremely difficult to achieve. Apple had already selected an American company, Corning Inc., to manufacture large panes of strengthened glass. But figuring out how to cut those panes into millions of iPhone screens required finding an empty cutting plant, hundreds of pieces of glass to use in experiments and an army of midlevel engineers. It would cost a fortune simply to prepare.
Then a bid for the work arrived from a Chinese factory.
When an Apple team visited, the Chinese plant's owners were already constructing a new wing. ''This is in case you give us the contract,'' the manager said, according to a former Apple executive. The Chinese government had agreed to underwrite costs for numerous industries, and those subsidies had trickled down to the glass-cutting factory. It had a warehouse filled with glass samples available to Apple, free of charge. The owners made engineers available at almost no cost. They had built on-site dormitories so employees would be available 24 hours a day.
The Chinese plant got the job.
''The entire supply chain is in China now,'' said another former high-ranking Apple executive. ''You need a thousand rubber gaskets? That's the factory next door. You need a million screws? That factory is a block away. You need that screw made a little bit different? It will take three hours.''
In Foxconn City
An eight-hour drive from that glass factory is a complex, known informally as Foxconn City, where the iPhone is assembled. To Apple executives, Foxconn City was further evidence that China could deliver workers -- and diligence -- that outpaced their American counterparts.
That's because nothing like Foxconn City exists in the United States.
The facility has 230,000 employees, many working six days a week, often spending up to 12 hours a day at the plant. Over a quarter of Foxconn's work force lives in company barracks and many workers earn less than $17 a day. When one Apple executive arrived during a shift change, his car was stuck in a river of employees streaming past. ''The scale is unimaginable,'' he said.
Foxconn employs nearly 300 guards to direct foot traffic so workers are not crushed in doorway bottlenecks. The facility's central kitchen cooks an average of three tons of pork and 13 tons of rice a day. While factories are spotless, the air inside nearby teahouses is hazy with the smoke and stench of cigarettes.
Foxconn Technology has dozens of facilities in Asia and Eastern Europe, and in Mexico and Brazil, and it assembles an estimated 40 percent of the world's consumer electronics for customers like Amazon, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Motorola, Nintendo, Nokia, Samsung and Sony.
''They could hire 3,000 people overnight,'' said Jennifer Rigoni, who was Apple's worldwide supply demand manager until 2010, but declined to discuss specifics of her work. ''What U.S. plant can find 3,000 people overnight and convince them to live in dorms?''
In mid-2007, after a month of experimentation, Apple's engineers finally perfected a method for cutting strengthened glass so it could be used in the iPhone's screen. The first truckloads of cut glass arrived at Foxconn City in the dead of night, according to the former Apple executive. That's when managers woke thousands of workers, who crawled into their uniforms -- white and black shirts for men, red for women -- and quickly lined up to assemble, by hand, the phones. Within three months, Apple had sold one million iPhones. Since then, Foxconn has assembled over 200 million more.
Foxconn, in statements, declined to speak about specific clients.
''Any worker recruited by our firm is covered by a clear contract outlining terms and conditions and by Chinese government law that protects their rights,'' the company wrote. Foxconn ''takes our responsibility to our employees very seriously and we work hard to give our more than one million employees a safe and positive environment.''
The company disputed some details of the former Apple executive's account, and wrote that a midnight shift, such as the one described, was impossible ''because we have strict regulations regarding the working hours of our employees based on their designated shifts, and every employee has computerized timecards that would bar them from working at any facility at a time outside of their approved shift.'' The company said that all shifts began at either 7 a.m. or 7 p.m., and that employees receive at least 12 hours' notice of any schedule changes.
Foxconn employees, in interviews, have challenged those assertions.
Another critical advantage for Apple was that China provided engineers at a scale the United States could not match. Apple's executives had estimated that about 8,700 industrial engineers were needed to oversee and guide the 200,000 assembly-line workers eventually involved in manufacturing iPhones. The company's analysts had forecast it would take as long as nine months to find that many qualified engineers in the United States.
In China, it took 15 days.
Companies like Apple ''say the challenge in setting up U.S. plants is finding a technical work force,'' said Martin Schmidt, associate provost at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In particular, companies say they need engineers with more than high school, but not necessarily a bachelor's degree. Americans at that skill level are hard to find, executives contend. ''They're good jobs, but the country doesn't have enough to feed the demand,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
Some aspects of the iPhone are uniquely American. The device's software, for instance, and its innovative marketing campaigns were largely created in the United States. Apple recently built a $500 million data center in North Carolina. Crucial semiconductors inside the iPhone 4 and 4S are manufactured in an Austin, Tex., factory by Samsung, of South Korea.
But even those facilities are not enormous sources of jobs. Apple's North Carolina center, for instance, has only 100 full-time employees. The Samsung plant has an estimated 2,400 workers.
''If you scale up from selling one million phones to 30 million phones, you don't really need more programmers,'' said Jean-Louis Gassee, who oversaw product development and marketing for Apple until he left in 1990. ''All these new companies -- Facebook, Google, Twitter -- benefit from this. They grow, but they don't really need to hire much.''
It is hard to estimate how much more it would cost to build iPhones in the United States. However, various academics and manufacturing analysts estimate that because labor is such a small part of technology manufacturing, paying American wages would add up to $65 to each iPhone's expense. Since Apple's profits are often hundreds of dollars per phone, building domestically, in theory, would still give the company a healthy reward.
But such calculations are, in many respects, meaningless because building the iPhone in the United States would demand much more than hiring Americans -- it would require transforming the national and global economies. Apple executives believe there simply aren't enough American workers with the skills the company needs or factories with sufficient speed and flexibility. Other companies that work with Apple, like Corning, also say they must go abroad.
Manufacturing glass for the iPhone revived a Corning factory in Kentucky, and today, much of the glass in iPhones is still made there. After the iPhone became a success, Corning received a flood of orders from other companies hoping to imitate Apple's designs. Its strengthened glass sales have grown to more than $700 million a year, and it has hired or continued employing about 1,000 Americans to support the emerging market.
But as that market has expanded, the bulk of Corning's strengthened glass manufacturing has occurred at plants in Japan and Taiwan.
''Our customers are in Taiwan, Korea, Japan and China,'' said James B. Flaws, Corning's vice chairman and chief financial officer. ''We could make the glass here, and then ship it by boat, but that takes 35 days. Or, we could ship it by air, but that's 10 times as expensive. So we build our glass factories next door to assembly factories, and those are overseas.''
Corning was founded in America 161 years ago and its headquarters are still in upstate New York. Theoretically, the company could manufacture all its glass domestically. But it would ''require a total overhaul in how the industry is structured,'' Mr. Flaws said. ''The consumer electronics business has become an Asian business. As an American, I worry about that, but there's nothing I can do to stop it. Asia has become what the U.S. was for the last 40 years.''
Middle-Class Jobs Fade
The first time Eric Saragoza stepped into Apple's manufacturing plant in Elk Grove, Calif., he felt as if he were entering an engineering wonderland.
It was 1995, and the facility near Sacramento employed more than 1,500 workers. It was a kaleidoscope of robotic arms, conveyor belts ferrying circuit boards and, eventually, candy-colored iMacs in various stages of assembly. Mr. Saragoza, an engineer, quickly moved up the plant's ranks and joined an elite diagnostic team. His salary climbed to $50,000. He and his wife had three children. They bought a home with a pool.
''It felt like, finally, school was paying off,'' he said. ''I knew the world needed people who can build things.''
At the same time, however, the electronics industry was changing, and Apple -- with products that were declining in popularity -- was struggling to remake itself. One focus was improving manufacturing. A few years after Mr. Saragoza started his job, his bosses explained how the California plant stacked up against overseas factories: the cost, excluding the materials, of building a $1,500 computer in Elk Grove was $22 a machine. In Singapore, it was $6. In Taiwan, $4.85. Wages weren't the major reason for the disparities. Rather it was costs like inventory and how long it took workers to finish a task.
''We were told we would have to do 12-hour days, and come in on Saturdays,'' Mr. Saragoza said. ''I had a family. I wanted to see my kids play soccer.''
Modernization has always caused some kinds of jobs to change or disappear. As the American economy transitioned from agriculture to manufacturing and then to other industries, farmers became steelworkers, and then salesmen and middle managers. These shifts have carried many economic benefits, and in general, with each progression, even unskilled workers received better wages and greater chances at upward mobility.
But in the last two decades, something more fundamental has changed, economists say. Midwage jobs started disappearing. Particularly among Americans without college degrees, today's new jobs are disproportionately in service occupations -- at restaurants or call centers, or as hospital attendants or temporary workers -- that offer fewer opportunities for reaching the middle class.
Even Mr. Saragoza, with his college degree, was vulnerable to these trends. First, some of Elk Grove's routine tasks were sent overseas. Mr. Saragoza didn't mind. Then the robotics that made Apple a futuristic playground allowed executives to replace workers with machines. Some diagnostic engineering went to Singapore. Middle managers who oversaw the plant's inventory were laid off because, suddenly, a few people with Internet connections were all that were needed.
Mr. Saragoza was too expensive for an unskilled position. He was also insufficiently credentialed for upper management. He was called into a small office in 2002 after a night shift, laid off and then escorted from the plant. He taught high school for a while, and then tried a return to technology. But Apple, which had helped anoint the region as ''Silicon Valley North,'' had by then converted much of the Elk Grove plant into an AppleCare call center, where new employees often earn $12 an hour.
There were employment prospects in Silicon Valley, but none of them panned out. ''What they really want are 30-year-olds without children,'' said Mr. Saragoza, who today is 48, and whose family now includes five of his own.
After a few months of looking for work, he started feeling desperate. Even teaching jobs had dried up. So he took a position with an electronics temp agency that had been hired by Apple to check returned iPhones and iPads before they were sent back to customers. Every day, Mr. Saragoza would drive to the building where he had once worked as an engineer, and for $10 an hour with no benefits, wipe thousands of glass screens and test audio ports by plugging in headphones.
Paydays for Apple
As Apple's overseas operations and sales have expanded, its top employees have thrived. Last fiscal year, Apple's revenue topped $108 billion, a sum larger than the combined state budgets of Michigan, New Jersey and Massachusetts. Since 2005, when the company's stock split, share prices have risen from about $45 to more than $427.
Some of that wealth has gone to shareholders. Apple is among the most widely held stocks, and the rising share price has benefited millions of individual investors, 401(k)'s and pension plans. The bounty has also enriched Apple workers. Last fiscal year, in addition to their salaries, Apple's employees and directors received stock worth $2 billion and exercised or vested stock and options worth an added $1.4 billion.
The biggest rewards, however, have often gone to Apple's top employees. Mr. Cook, Apple's chief, last year received stock grants -- which vest over a 10-year period -- that, at today's share price, would be worth $427 million, and his salary was raised to $1.4 million. In 2010, Mr. Cook's compensation package was valued at $59 million, according to Apple's security filings.
A person close to Apple argued that the compensation received by Apple's employees was fair, in part because the company had brought so much value to the nation and world. As the company has grown, it has expanded its domestic work force, including manufacturing jobs. Last year, Apple's American work force grew by 8,000 people.
While other companies have sent call centers abroad, Apple has kept its centers in the United States. One source estimated that sales of Apple's products have caused other companies to hire tens of thousands of Americans. FedEx and United Parcel Service, for instance, both say they have created American jobs because of the volume of Apple's shipments, though neither would provide specific figures without permission from Apple, which the company declined to provide.
''We shouldn't be criticized for using Chinese workers,'' a current Apple executive said. ''The U.S. has stopped producing people with the skills we need.''
What's more, Apple sources say the company has created plenty of good American jobs inside its retail stores and among entrepreneurs selling iPhone and iPad applications.
After two months of testing iPads, Mr. Saragoza quit. The pay was so low that he was better off, he figured, spending those hours applying for other jobs. On a recent October evening, while Mr. Saragoza sat at his MacBook and submitted another round of resumes online, halfway around the world a woman arrived at her office. The worker, Lina Lin, is a project manager in Shenzhen, China, at PCH International, which contracts with Apple and other electronics companies to coordinate production of accessories, like the cases that protect the iPad's glass screens. She is not an Apple employee. But Mrs. Lin is integral to Apple's ability to deliver its products.
Mrs. Lin earns a bit less than what Mr. Saragoza was paid by Apple. She speaks fluent English, learned from watching television and in a Chinese university. She and her husband put a quarter of their salaries in the bank every month. They live in a 1,080-square-foot apartment, which they share with their in-laws and son.
''There are lots of jobs,'' Mrs. Lin said. ''Especially in Shenzhen.''
Innovation's Losers
Toward the end of Mr. Obama's dinner last year with Mr. Jobs and other Silicon Valley executives, as everyone stood to leave, a crowd of photo seekers formed around the president. A slightly smaller scrum gathered around Mr. Jobs. Rumors had spread that his illness had worsened, and some hoped for a photograph with him, perhaps for the last time.
Eventually, the orbits of the men overlapped. ''I'm not worried about the country's long-term future,'' Mr. Jobs told Mr. Obama, according to one observer. ''This country is insanely great. What I'm worried about is that we don't talk enough about solutions.''
At dinner, for instance, the executives had suggested that the government should reform visa programs to help companies hire foreign engineers. Some had urged the president to give companies a ''tax holiday'' so they could bring back overseas profits which, they argued, would be used to create work. Mr. Jobs even suggested it might be possible, someday, to locate some of Apple's skilled manufacturing in the United States if the government helped train more American engineers.
Economists debate the usefulness of those and other efforts, and note that a struggling economy is sometimes transformed by unexpected developments. The last time analysts wrung their hands about prolonged American unemployment, for instance, in the early 1980s, the Internet hardly existed. Few at the time would have guessed that a degree in graphic design was rapidly becoming a smart bet, while studying telephone repair a dead end.
What remains unknown, however, is whether the United States will be able to leverage tomorrow's innovations into millions of jobs.
In the last decade, technological leaps in solar and wind energy, semiconductor fabrication and display technologies have created thousands of jobs. But while many of those industries started in America, much of the employment has occurred abroad. Companies have closed major facilities in the United States to reopen in China. By way of explanation, executives say they are competing with Apple for shareholders. If they cannot rival Apple's growth and profit margins, they won't survive.
''New middle-class jobs will eventually emerge,'' said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist. ''But will someone in his 40s have the skills for them? Or will he be bypassed for a new graduate and never find his way back into the middle class?''
The pace of innovation, say executives from a variety of industries, has been quickened by businessmen like Mr. Jobs. G.M. went as long as half a decade between major automobile redesigns. Apple, by comparison, has released five iPhones in four years, doubling the devices' speed and memory while dropping the price that some consumers pay.
Before Mr. Obama and Mr. Jobs said goodbye, the Apple executive pulled an iPhone from his pocket to show off a new application -- a driving game -- with incredibly detailed graphics. The device reflected the soft glow of the room's lights. The other executives, whose combined worth exceeded $69 billion, jostled for position to glance over his shoulder. The game, everyone agreed, was wonderful.
There wasn't even a tiny scratch on the screen.
The iEconomy: Articles in this series are examining challenges posed by increasingly globalized high-tech industries.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sunday about the reasons iPhones are largely produced overseas omitted a passage immediately after the second continuation, from Page A22 to Page A23, in one edition. The full passage should have read: ''Another critical advantage for Apple was that China provided engineers at a scale the United States could not match. Apple's executives had estimated that about 8,700 industrial engineers were needed to oversee and guide the 200,000 assembly-line workers eventually involved in manufacturing iPhones. The company's analysts had forecast it would take as long as nine months to find that many qualified engineers in the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People flooded Foxconn Technology with resumes at a 2010 job fair in Henan Province, China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONALD CHAN/REUTERS) (A1)
A production line in Foxconn City in Shenzhen, China. The iPhone is assembled in this vast facility, which has 230,000 employees, many at the plant up to 12 hours a day, six days a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A20)
In China, Lina Lin is a project manager at PCH International, which contracts with Apple. ''There are lots of jobs,'' she said. ''Especially in Shenzhen.'' In California, Eric Saragoza joined Apple as an engineer in 1995, but as more work occurred overseas, he was laid off. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) GRAPHICS: A Shift From Manufacturing: A look at the largest employers shows how America's economy has changed. Over the last 50 years, the country has shifted from creating goods to providing services. Today, about a tenth of Americans work in manufacturing, while service providers and retailers like Walmart and temp firms like Kelly Services employ about six in seven of the nation's workers.
PERCENTAGE OF WORKERS IN EACH SECTOR
THE LARGEST EMPLOYERS
FOR EVERY 1,000 JOBS CREATED IN
CHANGE IN JOBS, 2000-10 (Sources: S&P Capital IQ (list of largest employers)
Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A20)
The iPhone: Designed in the U.S. Made Overseas Assembled in China (Sources: Paul Semenza, senior vice president, Analyst Services, DisplaySearch, an NPD Group Company
Linley Gwennap, founder and principal analyst, the Linley Group
Ron Turi, owner, Element 3 Battery Venture
 Wayne Lam, IHS iSuppli) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (77%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (72%); HENAN, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012



964 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: The Affirmative Action War Goes On

 BODY:
Last month, the Obama administration issued important guidance to colleges and universities on how to increase racial diversity on campuses, explaining ways to navigate the narrow legal channel charted by the Supreme Court. The benefits of diversity, the Department of Education said, contribute to ''the educational, economic and civic life of this nation.'' The administration's support for such efforts stands in stark contrast to the policy of the George W. Bush administration to discourage them. That difference has played out between the political parties for decades, as it will in this presidential election.
Race-conscious programs in education -- affirmative action in college admissions and voluntary integration of public schools -- have been embattled for more than 40 years. Since the 1970s, the Supreme Court has restricted the approaches available to remedy racial disparities, but has left room for institutions to consider race in achieving certain broader aims. 
The war has not ended, however, and three notable lawsuits around the country show the continuing controversy. In March, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit will reconsider Michigan's ban on affirmative action in public university admissions, which a three-judge panel of the court struck down last summer. By prohibiting race-conscious admissions under the Michigan Constitution, the court said, the ban ''reorders the political process in Michigan to place special burdens on minority interests.''
In the Fifth Circuit, a three-judge panel a year ago upheld the use of race as a factor in admissions at the University of Texas at Austin. Four-fifths of students there are admitted as graduates in the top 10 percent of their high school classes. But one-fifth are admitted based on individual assessments, including race as a factor, and this program is being challenged. The university is waiting to hear whether the Supreme Court will review that decision.
In the Ninth Circuit next month, a three-judge panel will hear an appeal from a district court decision to dismiss a challenge to California's Proposition 209, which outlawed race-conscious admissions in 1996.
Any or all of these cases could end up before the Supreme Court, on which four conservatives have made clear that they would make illegal even narrowly tailored diversity programs. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. spoke for himself and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito Jr. in 2007 when he wrote in an opinion, ''The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.''
Justice Anthony Kennedy, while no fan of affirmative action, has in past decisions supported some use of race in certain situations. The question is whether he will move further to the right and reject those uses as well.
Leaders of universities, corporations and other institutions fear that the conservative majority will overrule Grutter v. Bollinger, the 2003 case that upheld the right of a public law school to consider race in admissions to achieve the benefits of a diverse student body. In endorsing that educational need, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, writing for the court's majority, noted that perhaps in 25 years race-conscious policies would no longer be needed.
This country is still very far from that goal. The push by Republican politicians and conservative justices to eliminate efforts to ensure diversity on campuses are squarely at odds with America's racial history. With the court's makeup likely to change in the next four years, the presidential election could determine how long such crucial efforts will last.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); JUDGES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (57%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SAMUEL ALITO (57%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



965 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: In Speech, Obama to Draw Line on the Economy

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will use his election-year State of the Union address on Tuesday to argue that it is government's role to promote a prosperous and equitable society, drawing a stark contrast between the parties in a time of deep economic uncertainty.
In a video preview e-mailed to millions of supporters on Saturday, as South Carolina Republicans went to the polls to help pick an alternative to him, Mr. Obama promised a populist ''blueprint for an American economy that's built to last,'' with the government assisting the private sector and individuals to ensure ''an America where everybody gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share and everybody plays by the same set of rules.''
Mr. Obama has honed that message for months as he has attacked Republicans in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail, contrasting it with what he has described as Republicans' ''go it alone'' free-market views. 
Last week at fund-raisers in New York, he told supporters that his push for a government hand had a precedent dating to the construction of canals and interstate highways, and the creation of land-grant colleges and the G.I. Bill. He said that Republicans had moved so far to the right that 2012 will be a ''hugely consequential election.''
Notably, Mr. Obama will again propose changes to the tax code so the wealthy pay more, despite Republicans' consistent opposition. Americans overwhelmingly support the idea, polls show, and the White House hopes that it gains traction with voters, given last week's acknowledgment by the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney that he pays taxes at a lower rate than many middle-class Americans because most of his income comes from investments.
With most Americans registering disapproval of the president's economic record after three years, it is all the more imperative for Mr. Obama to define the election not as a referendum on him but as a choice between his vision and that of his eventual Republican rival.
Mr. Obama's third State of the Union address is widely seen in parallel with the one delivered in 1996 by President Bill Clinton. Mr. Clinton likewise was seeking re-election, after voters in the midterm elections had put Republicans in power in Congress as a rebuke to his perceived big-government liberalism.
But Mr. Clinton sought to co-opt Republicans' small-government message; his State of the Union line ''the era of big government is over'' is among the most memorable of his presidency. Mr. Obama is confronting them instead, and framing the election-year debate in a way that aides say will challenge Republicans' support for unfettered American markets and ''you're-on-your-own economics,'' as he put it in December in Osawatomie, Kan., in a speech that was a prelude for Tuesday's address.
Advisers and other people familiar with the speech say Mr. Obama will expand again on the administration's effort to resolve the housing crisis with both carrots and sticks to lenders dealing with homeowners behind on their mortgage payments -- after yet another debate between his economic and political advisers.
The political team has long argued that most Americans oppose bold government action to stem home foreclosures, like forcing lenders to reduce borrowers' principal, seeing it as rewarding those who had bought houses they could not afford. The economic team holds that until the housing market recovers, the broader economy cannot -- and that all Americans suffer.
On Tuesday, Mr. Obama will flesh out his populist message with new proposals to spur manufacturing, including tax breaks for companies that ''insource'' jobs back to the United States; to double-down on clean-energy incentives; and to improve education and job training initiatives, especially for the millions of long-term unemployed, the officials familiar with the speech said.
Mr. Obama is expected to harden his challenge to China to increase its currency's value for fairer trade -- addressing the one area in which Mr. Romney has struck a more populist chord that appeals to the working-class voters that Mr. Obama will need if he is to be re-elected. The Obama team still views Mr. Romney, despite his defeat in the South Carolina primary on Saturday, as the president's most likely Republican challenger.
In the video preview, like one sent to supporters last year, Mr. Obama said he would call for ''a return to American values of fairness for all and responsibility from all.''
''We can go in two directions,'' he said. ''One is towards less opportunity and less fairness. Or we can fight for where I think we need to go: building an economy that works for everyone, not just a wealthy few.''
To that end, people familiar with his draft speech say, Mr. Obama will again call for changing the corporate and individual income-tax codes so the wealthy pay more, both to finance government investments and to alleviate the rise in income inequality in recent years.
Mr. Obama will revive his call, made in September, to rewrite the individual tax code in a way that follows what he termed the ''Buffett Rule'' -- making sure that, as the billionaire Warren Buffett has said, no secretaries or other employees pay a higher effective tax rate than their better-paid bosses.
The president's proposal takes on heightened political importance after Mr. Romney, who so far has not released his tax returns, said he paid a rate of about 15 percent. That is a lower rate than many taxpayers who make much less income pay, reflecting a tax break opened in the past decade by the Bush administration and a Republican-led Congress for taxpayers whose income relies on investments rather than wages.
Republican presidential candidates have countered that government should get out of the way. Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, said after his victory in the New Hampshire primary that Mr. Obama ''wants to put free enterprise on trial'' and divide Americans ''with the bitter politics of envy.''
''We must offer an alternative vision,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I stand ready to lead us down a different path, where we are lifted up by our desire to succeed, not dragged down by a resentment of success.''
Mr. Obama will also propose political changes, perhaps in campaign finance. Those would tap the sentiment of many Americans, expressed among both Tea Party and Occupy protesters on the political right and left, that the system is rigged against them in favor of a privileged few.
Yet even if Congress went along, an unlikely prospect for much of the president's agenda because Republicans' opposition is expected to intensify in this election year, any changes would not affect this campaign season. Already it has been influenced by independent ''super PACs'' of wealthy individuals, corporations and unions that the Supreme Court's Citizens United ruling unleashed to spend unlimited sums on behalf of candidates.
Administration officials and allies cautioned that the language and proposals for Mr. Obama's Tuesday address to a joint session of Congress could change before then. ''I'm actually not done writing it yet,'' Mr. Obama told supporters in the video, ''so there might be a few late nights between now and then.''
Besides new policies, he will revive politically popular proposals from the $447 billion job-creation package that he announced after Labor Day, but that Congressional Republicans blocked. He will again call for subsidies to struggling states to keep teachers and first-responders in their jobs, for money for roads and other infrastructure projects, and for extending for the remainder of the year both the temporary payroll tax cut for 160 million workers and federal payments to the long-term unemployed.
Congressional Republicans' resistance to that agenda last fall, because they oppose both government stimulus measures and Mr. Obama's proposed taxes on the wealthy to pay for them, helped depress their already low poll ratings. That leaves them at a disadvantage to Mr. Obama at the start of an election year. His ratings in national polls have picked up, though he is still struggling to regain support for his handling of the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama says all Americans need ''a fair shot.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 A signer interpreted for President Obama on Thursday at the Apollo Theater in New York. His third State of the Union message to Congress is set for Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



966 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Confronting Iran in a Year of Elections

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER. 
The chief Washington correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
A DEMOCRATIC president running in a bitterly disputed presidential race faces a fateful national security decision: whether to approve an airstrike to thwart an adversary bent on becoming a nuclear-weapons state.
Conservative hawks deride the president as weak. In the West Wing, advisers debate the risks: a strike could lead to open conflict, but doing nothing would change the balance of power in a volatile, war-prone region.
The president was Lyndon B. Johnson, and less than three weeks before Election Day in 1964, the Chinese rendered the White House discussion moot by setting off their first nuclear test. ''China will commit neither the error of adventurism, nor the error of capitulation,'' the government of Mao Zedong told the world that morning, heralding the first Asian nation to get the bomb.
Johnson defeated Barry Goldwater in the election anyway, after a campaign in which -- oddly enough, given the attack being contemplated -- he tarred the Arizona conservative as a warmonger in the infamous black-and-white ''daisy'' television spot, featuring a young girl counting the petals of a flower, unaware of impending nuclear doom. 
Historical analogies are always dangerous when it comes to presidential elections and nuclear geopolitics, so comparisons to the Obama administration's calculus in the escalating confrontation with Iran calls to mind the caution that history doesn't repeat, it rhymes. The election-year nuclear brinkmanship game was tricky enough in the cold war; the Chinese test was partly a warning to the Soviet Union, and Washington had even considered inviting Moscow to join in any strike.
But think of the multipolar chess President Obama is now playing. Every country involved in the dispute over Iran's possibly acquiring nuclear weapons is calculating how the American presidential election plays to its agenda. The politics of soaring oil prices loom over any threat of military conflict, even a brief skirmish in the Strait of Hormuz. And with global economic turmoil a reality and leadership changes possible or certain this year in the United States, Russia, China and France, the game gets even more complex.
Start with the Iranians themselves. They have studied China's example, and the case of Pakistan, which faced severe economic sanctions -- urged foremost by the United States -- for its pursuit of the bomb. But in both cases, once those countries conducted a test, the world adjusted to the new reality. Less than a half century later, China is the world's second largest economy, and no one messes with it. As soon as the Sept. 11 attacks happened, the sanctions against Pakistan disappeared; suddenly the United States cared about cooperation in hunting down Al Qaeda more than it cared about Pakistan's dangerous export of bomb technology, including to Iran.
''From the perception of the Iranians, life may look better on the other side of the mushroom cloud,'' said Ray Takeyh, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. He may be right: while the Obama administration has vowed that it will never tolerate Iran as a nuclear weapons state, a few officials admit that they may have to settle for a ''nuclear capable'' Iran that has the technology, the nuclear fuel and the expertise to become a nuclear power in a matter of weeks or months.
No one can get inside the head of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, but Mr. Takeyh notes that his pattern of behavior over the past decade has been to push the nuclear program ahead ''systematically but cautiously,'' slowly raising the temperature but until now avoiding major crises. Several years ago the Western allies said Iran could not resume enriching uranium; it resumed. Then the ''red line'' was drawn around enriching at a much higher level of purity, which gets Iran closer to bomb-grade fuel. But Iran has been doing that for nearly two years now. And the latest violation, just two weeks ago, was beginning production in a deep underground facility that is far less vulnerable to bombing.
That moves the calculus to Israel. It used to declare that it would never permit Iran to go past ''the point of no return,'' an ill-defined line beyond which Iran could rapidly produce a bomb. There's continuing debate about where that line is, but former Israeli intelligence officials say Iran is long past it. Yet so far, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been constrained by the United States, which argues that cyberattacks, sabotage and sanctions have been more effective at slowing Iran's program, without creating an international furor.
The outbreak of a public debate in Israel over whether to strike soon clearly shook the Obama administration. Under pressure from American officials, Israel's defense minister, Ehud Barak, said on Wednesday that a decision on a possible strike on Iran was ''very far off.'' Mr. Netanyahu's government may calculate that if Israel is going to attempt a strike, doing so during the presidential campaign, when it would have the sympathy of many American voters, is the only way to avoid a major backlash from Mr. Obama, with whom Mr. Netanyahu has a tense relationship. Elliott Abrams, President George W. Bush's hawkish Middle East adviser, wrote recently that if Israel attacked ''Mr. Obama would be forced to back it and help Israel cope with the consequences. It might even help the president get re-elected if he ends up using force to keep the Strait of Hormuz open and Israel safe.''
IT might -- or it might not. The Iranians know they have little to gain from a confrontation that spins out of control; they don't want to take on the Fifth Fleet in the Strait of Hormuz. But threats, small attacks on refineries and harassment of shipping can send the price of oil soaring, with economic effects no leader wants in election season. Sure, Americans don't want Iran to get the bomb. But are they willing to pay $6 a gallon to prevent it?
Instability scares the Chinese, too, but gives the Russians an opportunity. For years China resisted sanctions on Iran, since it buys so much Iranian oil. Now it sees that escalating sanctions are inevitable, so it is busy hedging its bets, looking for alternative sources (with help from the Obama administration) while delaying a crisis. ''They are a little late to the game,'' one of Mr. Obama's aides said. ''We have been telling them this was coming for two years now. But they are only now believing it.''
Russia is also looking to buy time, but as a significant oil producer, it benefits from a sustained crisis -- as long as it stays at a low boil. The Russians have proposed a lengthy negotiating plan with Iran, one that would take years to complete. Washington sees it as a ploy that would drag out talks and give Iran time and political cover to get the bomb.
And then there are the Europeans and the Arab states. During the Bush administration they feared any tough sanctions, convinced that if they failed, President Bush would order a strike on Iran. They misread the politics in Washington; after invading Iraq, Mr. Bush was in no position to get into a conflict with another Middle Eastern country suspected of seeking nuclear weapons.
Now, exactly three years into the Obama administration, the situation has reversed. Europe is finally as eager for sanctions as Washington has been; it is preparing for an oil embargo on Iran. The United States has not purchased oil from Iran for many years, but Mr. Obama has stopped short of advocating a global total embargo, which could lead to confrontations at sea. The hard line taken by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has been the surprise in the latest chapter in the long-running Iranian nuclear crisis. Their operating assumption is that if the economic cost is high enough, the supreme leader will fold. Few in Washington are persuaded, but most go along with the assumption because the more forceful alternatives are too unpleasant to contemplate.
By comparison, solving the Iranian hostage crisis during the presidential election of 1980 looks almost simple. Hours after Jimmy Carter left office and the more hawkish Ronald Reagan came in, Iran freed the hostages taken at the American Embassy. When Mr. Obama or his opponent is sworn in on Jan. 20, 2013, no one expects Iran's nuclear complex to be packed up and shipped out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TERRORISM (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



967 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2656 words

HEADLINE: Life After 'Sex'

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
When Cynthia Nixon was 9, she played an impostor on ''To Tell the Truth.'' ''There was a little girl who was a professional horse rider who had won all these blue ribbons,'' she recalled, ''and the cool thing about her was she rode a Shetland pony, and I pretended to be her. My mother worked on the show; her job was to brief the impostors, coach them in pretending. But I couldn't believe that no one on the panel recognized me, because I was around the studio a lot. So when I rode out on the horse with a cowboy hat on, I was like this'' -- she ducked her head low -- ''because I knew they absolutely remembered me.'' Even now, her face fell. ''And no one recognized me.'' 
Nixon, now 45, has had the opposite problem for quite some time. As she walked through the densely populated Fairway on the Upper West Side one afternoon last month, she wore a brown Fedora pulled low around her face. Her six years on ''Sex and the City'' made her instantly recognizable; for a time, most every Type A professional woman in New York identified herself as a ''Miranda,'' after her character. It was the kind of success Nixon had not anticipated, even though she has been in the business for most of her life. She began with an ABC After School Special at 12 and a Broadway debut at 14 in a Lincoln Center revival of ''The Philadelphia Story.'' Just after she graduated from Hunter, an elite public high school, and was beginning her studies in English literature at Barnard, Nixon, at 18, appeared in two Broadway shows simultaneously, both directed by Mike Nichols. Eight times a week she played a teenage drifter in Hollywood in Acts One and Three of David Rabe's ''Hurlyburly,'' alongside William Hurt and Sigourney Weaver; in between, she appeared as the British daughter of Jeremy Irons and Christine Baranski in Act Two of Tom Stoppard's ''Real Thing.'' In the era of ''Fame,'' she was the It Girl without the leg warmers, striding onstage with a bravado that dared you to look away.
If the work had ended there, with a bang, no one would have been surprised, least of all Nixon. Her parents continually warned her that few child actors break through as adults. ''You knew your expiration date was stamped on your forehead, and everybody could see it,'' she said. ''You felt a little like you were on death row.''
But as she got older, the offers kept coming, and she found herself with a solid New York-based career. The global success of ''Sex and the City'' cemented her celebrity. ''Nobody ever really thought of me as sexy, right?'' she said wryly when we sat down earlier to talk. ''They thought of me as smart and quirky. For a while I was waifish, and then I was smart and quirky, and then when I was like 30 I was cast in 'Sex and the City.' Thirty seems young to me now, but at the time 30 seemed to be kind of getting old, so it was this amazing confluence of events where I, who had never really exercised, never really worn heels, was in this thing that was about sex and grooming and your body. I might have just gone from waifs to old ladies, but I had my bombshell period in there, my unexpected bombshell period.''
Hollywood, however, with its junior-high-school standards of beauty and popularity, never mistook her for a star. Two years after winning an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in the last season of ''Sex and the City,'' Nixon won a Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for ''Rabbit Hole,'' but the screen version of the role went to Nicole Kidman. ''They could never have gotten it made if I was in the movie,'' Nixon said evenly. ''But I loved playing that part, and I loved playing it onstage; I can't do that kind of emotion on film, I just can't. It's too still or something.''
Nixon is currently starring in a revival of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ''Wit,'' on Broadway, directed by Lynne Meadow. (It opens Jan. 26.) The play, which had its first New York staging Off Broadway in 1998, is an actor's tour de force about an exacting poetry professor who undergoes a brutal -- and by now outdated -- experimental treatment for Stage 4 ovarian cancer, a woman who excelled all her life by analytical brainpower suddenly forced to grapple with extreme, unwelcome emotions.
Nixon herself discovered she had breast cancer during a routine mammogram in 2006 (it was caught at an early stage and required a lumpectomy and radiation but no chemotherapy; she still takes Tamoxifen). Her mother, Anne Knoll Nixon, 82, has had three bouts with it, the first when Nixon was 12.
An only child whose parents separated when she was 6, Nixon has stayed close to her mother her entire life. To succeed at both acting and academics required discipline and obedience in equal measure, and Nixon was guided with a strong hand by Anne, a classmate of Paul Newman's at the Yale School of Drama, who seems to have functioned more as a constructive acting coach than as an insatiable Mama Rose. The way Nixon carries herself, with easy confidence and a lack of drama, seems to derive from having been the glowing center of the world for a mother who managed to do no harm.
Nixon is a mother herself; her two oldest children are Samantha, 15, and Charlie, 9. Their father is Daniel Mozes, a classmate of Nixon's at Hunter College High School, where he now teaches English. The couple never married and split in 2003.
As Nixon has grown older, she has allowed herself to start coloring outside the lines. A year after splitting with Mozes, she began a relationship with Christine Marinoni, now 44, whom she met while campaigning to increase financing for New York City public schools. With the help of a male friend Nixon will not identify, Marinoni conceived a child. She gave birth to their son, Max Ellington Nixon-Marinoni, on Feb. 7, 2011.
On this late December afternoon at Fairway, Nixon was armed with a holiday-meal shopping list. She gathered ingredients for rugelach, reaching gracefully around an old woman crouched in the dairy section to grab a block of Philadelphia cream cheese and a container of sour cream. Nixon is a brisk, focused shopper who knows the store's geography well, parking her cart in strategic places while charging the aisles. She tossed a challah into it -- ''French toast'' -- and a large bottle of vanilla. She was expert at blending into the crowd without calling attention to herself -- the whirl of purpose served her well -- and when she was recognized, it was adulation New York-style: delight at spotting a celebrity tinged with self-congratulation for being at the right place at the right time.
We headed upstairs to the organic department, where she filled bags with Fuji apples and Idaho potatoes. Then she gathered up some red kale. ''My girlfriend juices for me, which is really nice. It's a cancer thing.'' Nixon seems extremely matter-of-fact about the ''cancer thing.'' ''I feel that between my experience and my mother's, breast cancer is a little bit like someone who lives next door,'' she said. ''I know what that person looks like and what their daily habits are. I mean, I get my ultrasounds and stuff, so I think I'm less scared than if I didn't do that.''
Loaded down with bags, she took the stairs to the street. It was quite a feat to have made it through 40 minutes of shopping with only a handful of people aware of her presence. She seemed proud, unlike her 9-year-old self, of going almost unnoticed. ''Hats help,'' she said.
When I arrived at Manhattan Theater Club to talk to Nixon during rehearsals of ''Wit,'' she was busy making herself tea -- no assistants. Emanuel Azenberg, the veteran Broadway impresario and a producer of ''The Real Thing'' in 1984, told me: ''Cynthia overcame success. She was this nice kid who went on to this extraordinary career and remained a well-balanced person with real equilibrium. She treats people well; it doesn't matter who they are.''
Nixon does have a practiced air of civility that comes from having been a public person from childhood. She is professionally lovely, though she rarely allows herself to lapse into intimacy. As with many former child actors, there is a persistent echo of herself as she was when she began; you can see her switch into engaging mode -- standing up midconversation to act out a scene, banging on the table for emphasis -- displaying just enough exuberance to set herself apart and make a favorable impression. Maybe all actors tend to audition. But because Nixon genuinely connects, it feels sweet somehow to see her eagerness to please.
''Both my parents were always careful to say, 'You're doing this for now,' '' she recalled. ''Most child actors, once they hit 18, once they hit 21, that's it. Even teenage kids often don't make the transition. Unlike me, a lot of child actors are very short, which is why they work. So when they're 15 they can play 11 or when they're 18 they can play 14. They look young for so long, they have abilities a much younger kid wouldn't have.''
Nixon's father, Walter, a radio journalist who she says was often unemployed, died in 1998. Though her mother's own acting ambitions went unfulfilled, Nixon says there was never any sense of competition or jealousy between them. ''It just felt for so long like we were in cahoots,'' she said. ''The plan was, 'I'm going to act until I'm 18, earn as much money as I can while still going to school and not jeopardize my school, not go to California and pay for college.' So I think I always had the sense that acting wasn't the centerpiece. I've always had a left hand to balance the right hand. When Laurence Olivier was asked what the most important thing is for a young actor to learn, he said, 'How to become an old actor.' I didn't know that back then, but I wasn't looking for height, I wasn't looking to hit it really big. I was looking to stay close to the ground.
''As a child,'' she continued, ''I only worked with my mother. She still will come nowadays and give me a note here and there. It's why to me the director is the person I care most about, because I'm so used to working with my own personal director. Some friends of mine who are actors feel directing shuts them down and kills all their impulses, but the worst thing for me is if I feel a director hasn't noticed. That makes me feel like God isn't watching. Maybe it's an only-child thing. Like in order for something to be important or real, my mother has to see it happen, particularly if it's something good.''
When Nixon was 28, she studied briefly with the legendary acting teacher Uta Hagen, who also taught her mother. ''That was great, but hard,'' she said. ''I had been acting for how long at that point? Like 16 years. So you can learn some things, but it's hard to undo stuff. It's like you built your house with whatever materials you had available to you, and then time passes and now you have the money to buy the proper materials but the house is already built so maybe you'll retile the kitchen. But the house is built.''
Nixon manages to keep a similarly cleareyed perspective on her relationship with Marinoni, despite the titillation it has caused in the tabloid media. She has less tolerance for the skepticism she says her relationship has sparked among some gay activists who find her midlife switch in sexual orientation disingenuous.
''I totally reject that,'' she said heatedly. ''I gave a speech recently, an empowerment speech to a gay audience, and it included the line 'I've been straight and I've been gay, and gay is better.' And they tried to get me to change it, because they said it implies that homosexuality can be a choice. And for me, it is a choice. I understand that for many people it's not, but for me it's a choice, and you don't get to define my gayness for me. A certain section of our community is very concerned that it not be seen as a choice, because if it's a choice, then we could opt out. I say it doesn't matter if we flew here or we swam here, it matters that we are here and we are one group and let us stop trying to make a litmus test for who is considered gay and who is not.'' Her face was red and her arms were waving. ''As you can tell,'' she said, ''I am very annoyed about this issue. Why can't it be a choice? Why is that any less legitimate? It seems we're just ceding this point to bigots who are demanding it, and I don't think that they should define the terms of the debate. I also feel like people think I was walking around in a cloud and didn't realize I was gay, which I find really offensive. I find it offensive to me, but I also find it offensive to all the men I've been out with.''
Her relationship with Mozes is good, she says. He married a widow, a child psychiatrist with twins, who are now 7, and they all share parenting duties. Two days before the first preview of ''Wit,'' I met Marinoni, who came to the theater with 11-month-old Max to show support for Nixon as she had her head shaved for the role. As she sat down for her transformation, Nixon wore a T-shirt her mother gave her, which read: ''I am the celebrity you think I look like.'' She seemed calm, though the extra loud baby noises she was making at Max, redheaded and adorable, betrayed her anxiety. Marinoni, 44, also a redhead, is self-possessed and understated. ''She hates dealing with her hair,'' she murmured, looking at Nixon. ''I'm afraid she won't want it back.''
Nixon's own Miranda-red hair is long gone; her natural color is dark blond. She sat stoically as the hair supervisor for the show cut steadily until one side was off. ''Max, look!'' Nixon cried. ''Where did it go?'' The other side went, with a few sprigs left at the top of her head. ''Bald Alfalfa!'' she yelled. Marinoni smiled. ''You look fierce,'' she said. The first shave took place. ''Oh, it's so weird to the touch!'' Nixon said. ''It feels like tiny little wounds, tiny little nicks. It feels exposed.''
She expressed surprise at the clear outline of follicles that remained. ''It does not want to come off,'' the hair supervisor said, buzzing harder. That discovery seemed to temper Nixon's nerves, making her mindful that, unlike someone undergoing chemotherapy, she still had her eyebrows, eyelashes and radiant pink cheeks. Meadow, her director, came in with a pair of long hoop earrings, each anchored by a pearl. Nixon, who has the actor's gift of the chameleon, put them on and voila! Giggling, she was soiree-ready. She took the earrings off and tried on a red baseball cap that is part of her costume. Its visor obscured her eyebrows and cut the light on her face, which went chalk white to match her unnaturally exposed scrawny neck. She looked instantly like a cancer patient. Jolted, she removed the cap. One step at a time.
Before the second shave, Nixon's scalp was steamed with a hot towel, then slathered with Edge gel. As she cooed at Max, her bald head covered in a light green foam, while he, held tight in Marinoni's arms, gnawed on a bottle of nail polish, I remembered the phrase Nixon used to describe what she regarded as her greatest achievement in life: Relative sanity.
''I know everybody says their kids are their greatest achievement,'' she said, ''and I think my kids are wildly impressive and great, but I don't feel like they're my achievement, really. They're their own people. My relative sanity, I feel, has created a pretty good world for them. Not a perfect world by any means, but a pretty good one.''
Correction: January 22, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A profile on Page 24 this weekend about the actress Cynthia Nixon misspells the surname of an actress Nixon worked with on Broadway early in her career. She is Christine Baranski, not Baranksi. The profile also refers incorrectly to the play ''Wit,'' in which Nixon is now starring on Broadway. It had its first New York staging Off Broadway in 1998, not its first over all. (That happened in a Los Angeles-area theater, in 1995.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SELIGER) (MM25)
From top: ''Little Darlings'' (feature fi lm, 1980)
''My Body, My Child,'' with Maia Danziger and Sarah Jessica Parker (TV, 1982)
''The Real Thing,'' with Christine Baranski and Jeremy Irons (Broadway, 1984). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PARAMOUNT/EVERETT COLLECTION
ABC VIA GETTY IMAGES
MARTHA SWOPE) (MM26)
''Hurlyburly,'' with William Hurt (Broadway, 1984)
''Sex and the City,'' with Parker (1998
Emmy Award in 2004)
''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'' (Off Broadway, 2006)
''Rabbit Hole'' (Broadway, 2006, Tony Award). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTHA SWOPE
HBO VIA GETTY IMAGES
 SARA KRULWICH/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); HORSES (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (73%); MIKE NICHOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



968 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Notes On Deleveraging

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: We're doing better than Europe. 

 BODY:
The new McKinsey Global Institute report on debt and deleveraging has attracted a lot of attention, and rightly so. I have some quibbles with the way the data are presented, but they're very useful data -- and lead to some surprising conclusions.
So, a few notes. 
MGI presents its data like this:
My preference is to leave financial-sector debt out of the picture, because it's conceptually very different from nonfinancial debt. Think of it this way: compare two banking systems, one in which banks directly lend deposits out to customers, another in which many deposits are lent out through the interbank wholesale market, and then lent on to nonfinancial customers. The second system will show much higher financial-sector debt, and it is in some real sense more risky than the first, but the real economy isn't more highly indebted than in the first case. In general, financial-sector debt is about the internal organization of intermediation, and it's not the same kind of thing as when households or business run up a lot of debt.
So if you take the financial-sector debt out of the total, MGI's conclusion that the United States has experienced substantial deleveraging goes away: overall debt to GDP has been more or less flat since the end of 2008. But as I wrote yesterday, the shift of debt away from over-indebted households to a federal government that is not borrowing-constrained is a big plus; it's setting the stage for recovery.
What about MGI's claim that the United States is doing much better than Europe? It still holds up. I wish they had done eurozone-as-a-whole numbers; I'm not finding that at all easy to do myself. (Eurostat's categories do not match US flow-of-funds data). But what I've been able to gather is that Europe has had a substantial rise in public debt, with little or no private-sector deleveraging. Here's Spain:
So what you get is a seeming paradox: once you realize that private debt is as much or more of a problem than public debt, what you see is that Europe, where the key policymakers have preached the evils of debt and the need for austerity, is not making any progress in bringing debt problems under control -- while we are. Of course, it's not a paradox if you have been reading Richard Koo on balance sheet recessions, if you understood the importance of expansionary monetary policy, and if you had grasped the meaning of Sam and Janet.
Oh, and if we had done what the usual suspects on the right wanted -- if we had slashed spending to ward off the invisible bond vigilantes, and had tightened money to ward off the phantom inflation menace -- we'd be emulating Europe, and hence emulating Europe's failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); RECESSION (76%); EURO ZONE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012



969 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; global

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: The Emerging Gilded Age

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: It is a season of doubt and fear in much of the West, as the relative decline of Europe and the United States seems more and more apparent. But, Chrystia Freeland writes, the current era of global prosperity owes its life to Western policies and technology. How much of China and India's success is rooted in the West? 

 BODY:
As IHT Rendezvous kicks off a week of special coverage of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Chrystia Freeland, an IHT Page Two columnist and Reuters's global editor at large, writes about the new Gilded Age. 
"In the 19th century, the Industrial Revolution and the opening of the American frontier created the Gilded Age and the robber barons who ruled it. Today, as the world economy is being reshaped by the technology revolution and globalization, the resulting economic transformation is creating a new gilded age and a new plutocracy," says Chrystia.
This plutocracy is in the West, the so-called "one percent." Chrystia sees a different phenomenon in China, India and other emergent markets. "The people at the very top of all of the emerging economies are benefiting most, but the transition is also pulling tens of millions of people into the middle class and lifting hundreds of millions out of absolute poverty." 
And whom do we have to thank for all this epochal change?
"We are seeing much more rapid growth in developing countries, especially China and India, because the policies and technologies in the West have allowed a lot of medium-skilled jobs to be done" in those countries, said Daron Acemoglu, professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a native of Turkey. "They are able to punch above their weight because technology allows us to better arbitrage differences in the world economy."
Do you agree? How much do China, India and others owe their success in today's economy to Western policies and Western technology? How much of their rise is the result of homegrown values and ideas. These are civilizations that are thousands of years old and have had, it could be argued, many gilded ages, though none perhaps as democratic as the one unfolding now. And what are the pitfalls that befell the West that the economically emerging nations must and can sidestep? 

        
The New Gilded Age - Who Will Benefit?
        
Chinese Poets, Public Enemies
        
The Literary Circus Comes to Jaipur

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); POETRY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); TRENDS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (51%) BRIC; China; Davos; India; World Economic Forum; Freeland, Chrystia; Economic Conditions and Trends; Davos (Switzerland); Featured; Page Two

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%) World Economic Forum

PERSON: Freeland, Chrystia

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%) INDIA (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%) China; Davos (Switzerland); India

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



970 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Turning Subway Tracks Into Ad Hoc Wishing Wells

BYLINE: CHADWICK MOORE


HIGHLIGHT: While waiting for the G train, subway riders at two stations change standing and unsightly bodies of water into repositories for dreams and hopes. 

 BODY:
Michael Shannon did it for love.
Mr. Shannon, a 40-year-old tea merchant from Queens, stood on a mostly empty platform in the Nassau Avenue subway station in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, one recent Friday night, a black fox fur stole draped over his shoulders and a black felt fedora atop his great mane of hair.
He tossed pennies, 11 of them in succession, into a litter-strewn pool of water snaking through the track bed.
"Love, true love. Meeting a beautiful man. Having a beautiful life," Mr. Shannon said of his wishes. "It's worth 11 times."
Every day, millions of gallons of groundwater are pumped through New York City's subway network. The water enters the system through underground aquifers, bound for the city's storm sewage system. 
At some stations, the water table is relatively high. Rivulets form along the track beds. In at least two stations in Brooklyn, riders like Mr. Shannon use these urban springs as places to cast their desires, hopes and dreams.
"I've always wondered about that," said a woman carrying a yoga mat the other morning while waiting for a train at the Broadway station in Williamsburg, two stops south of the Nassau station on the G line. "It's like some sort of New York wishing well. And it's only here. I've never seen it in the city or anywhere else."
At the Broadway station, hundreds of coins lie beneath the water on the track bed. One commuter likened the station to "the log ride at Disney World" because of its cavelike appearance, which includes stalagmites growing from fixtures and hundreds of stalactites, some a foot long, hanging from the ceiling.
Subways, interrupting as they do the natural flow of water underground, are built to move water just as they are to move people. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority built depressions between the rails of its underground track beds to guide water leaching from the ground toward the nearest drain, said Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the agency. The drains direct the water to pumping stations that send it into the storm sewers.
The water's journey can be a long one. In Williamsburg and its environs, said Andrew Kozlowski, a hydrologist for the state, the water visible in the subway fell as rain six months to two years ago and has since been migrating through aquifers toward the East River.
Asked what the transit agency thought about the coin-tossing, Mr. Ortiz offered only a reference to a section of the transit Rules of Conduct that bars throwing items onto track beds. But where people, water and time to contemplate all intersect (the interval between G trains can seem eternal), coins will be tossed.
Fred Bryant, a professor of social psychology at Loyola University in Chicago who studies superstitions, said such rituals gave people an illusion of control over their desires.
"What we know to be true from past research is that when economic times are tough, when people feel a threat in any way, either from military threat or economic, financial threat, superstitions increase," Professor Bryant said. "In the trying to exert control, we are tricked into believing we have it."
Brittawnee Enos, 27, of Greenpoint, tossed a penny in the water on a recent weekday as she waited for a G train at Broadway.
"I've just been struggling for my goals lately, so I wished to be a little more focused in accomplishing them," she said. "I'm a dancer, and I haven't even been going to class for some time because, you know, distractions and injuries, that sort of thing. I just want to get back into it."
Emily Hexe, 22, tossed a coin into the pool at the Nassau station on a recent Saturday night, without a specific hope in mind.
"It's almost just in the motion of doing it," she said. "Having a wild hope for something, anything - just remembering the child that's inside myself."
On one afternoon, the Broadway station platform was abuzz with students from a middle school. Some passed the time by tossing coins onto the track bed.
Daniel Maslowski, a seventh grader, said he wished to win the lottery.
A classmate, Rafal Wadolowski, traveling with a younger cousin, said he wished that his cousin "would get to the top 10 next year in grades."
Rafal's cousin wished for the same thing, though she expanded a bit. "I wished that I would do good in school," she said, "for all the people to do good in school."

        
L Train Riders Grade Their Subway Service With a C
        
A Voice for the Riders, Lost Amid Transit Talks
        
9/11 Memorial Leaves Its Mark on the Subway, All Rights Reserved
        
Your Views on Trash-Can-Less Subways: Lame, Laudable, Other
        
Giving Subway Riders the No-Bin Treatment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) Greenpoint; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Subways; Williamsburg; Superstitions; Transit Systems; Brooklyn (NYC); Greenpoint (NYC); Williamsburg (NYC); Brooklyn; Offbeat; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Brooklyn (NYC); Greenpoint (NYC); Williamsburg (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



971 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: What the Left Gets Right

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Leading conservative thinkers talk about what liberals are good for. 

 BODY:
Today's column is a counterpart to last week's, in which some thoughtful liberals responded to the question, "What does the right get right?"
This time around, I asked a number of conservative analysts, writers and think-tank scholars the corresponding question, "What does the left get right?"
The praise voiced by liberals in the previous column for some key attributes of conservatism was surprisingly full-throated. The conservatives I spoke to over the past few days, on the other hand, carefully limited the scope of their tributes, even as they acknowledged the virtue of certain liberal values.
A few conservative concessions to liberalism's strengths were made without qualification; others were begrudging. Nonetheless, in the conservative assessment, common themes emerge:
Liberals recognize the real problems facing the poor, the hardships resulting from economic globalization and the socially destructive force of increasing inequality.
Liberals do not dismiss or treat as ideologically motivated scientific findings, especially the sharpening scientific consensus that human beings contribute significantly to climate change.
Liberals stand with those most in need, and believe in the inclusion of such previously marginalized groups as blacks, Hispanics, women and gays.
As I sifted through the responses, it became clear that a widely shared view among contemporary conservatives is that liberals are all heart and no head, that their policies are misguided - thrown off track by an excessively emotional compassion that fails to recognize the likelihood of unintended consequences.
Conservatives, in this view, should take charge of policy making, leaving the left to contribute from the periphery by advocating for the needs of the poor and marginalized.
Peter Wehner, former deputy assistant to the president and director of the White House Office of Strategic Initiatives under George W. Bush, is now a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center. In reply to a query from The Times, he wrote:
I'm a conservative because I believe conservatism is a right and wise political philosophy, one that does the most to encourage human flourishing, while liberalism - at least modern-day, reactionary liberalism - is a wrong and unwise political philosophy that can impede human flourishing.
That said, what I do credit liberalism (and some liberals) for are certain sentiments and impulses that are admirable and important. They include solidarity with the poor; a clear-eyed view of the effects that globalization and modernization can have on some workers; a willingness to view economic matters through a moral prism; and a belief in the common good rather than merely the individual good.
While the actual policy proposals of the left "are in almost every instance misguided," Wehner declared, "I do think that liberals are able to force certain issues into the national debate and, as a result, conservatives are forced to grapple with issues they might otherwise ignore."
Wehner does not give his side a free pass, especially on the issue of science and global warming:
I credit liberals with drawing attention to anthropogenic [human-caused] global warming (AGW). In arguing that Earth's temperature is warming, and human behavior has contributed to that warming, liberals are firmly on the side of science. Those on the right who insist that AGW is a 'hoax' are, I think, wrong, in a way that is harmful to conservatism.
Gerard Alexander, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and an associate professor of politics at the University of Virginia, similarly cited the role of liberals in identifying "problems that genuinely need to be addressed."
Liberals suffer, Alexander argued, from:
an exaggerated sense of what is fixable. But without their prompting, conservatives might have been content to do very little or nothing about a series of shortcomings and failings that are amenable to at least being ameliorated, if not fixed. Prominent examples include segregation, some aspects of poverty and inequality and a number of environmental problems.
Andrew Ferguson, senior editor of the Weekly Standard, was more effusive in his praise. "American liberals are alert to important matters that American conservatives commonly shortchange," Ferguson wrote. "Liberals agree with Samuel Johnson that a decent provision for the poor is the true test of a civilization."
Ferguson did not stop there:
 Liberals are sensitive to the unsettling potential of income disparities. They are attentive to the overreaching of the federal government through its national security apparatus. They are less likely to pretend that scientific questions - is the planet getting warmer, for example, and if so, why? - are really ideological questions. They understand that the legacies of two centuries of slavery and another of Jim Crow are still active and still debilitating. And they are more realistic about the limits of American military power than many conservatives.
Unlike many of his colleagues on the right, Ferguson did not append repeated qualifications to his comments except to note that "whether liberals respond wisely to the issues that they are alert to is another question which, in our spirit of transideological friendship, I won't address."
Perhaps in part because of his background in Britain, Patrick N. Allitt, Cahoon Family Professor of American History at Emory University and author of "The Conservatives: Ideas and Personalities Throughout American History," has a view of the virtues of liberalism that many others on the American right do not share. He stressed three areas where he joins liberals in parting company with the right:
First, they are justified in favoring a national health care system. Just as we regard it as reasonable in a wealthy society to offer everyone twelve years of education at government expense, in the belief that the society as a whole will benefit, so we should take steps to make sure everyone is reasonably healthy.
Second, liberals are right to favor gun control - in my view the more the better.... Conservatives ought to feel a sense of outrage that citizens can so easily kill one another.
Third, liberals understand that industrial societies are vulnerable to the business cycle and that, sometimes, large numbers of people become unemployed through no fault of their own. Although the operation of the free market will probably eventually create new employment opportunities, government alone has the resources to care for their welfare in the meantime. I think it's a thoroughly conservative principle to believe that industrial societies should develop comprehensive welfare states.
One of the virtues of liberals, in the view of Craig Shirley, author of "Rendezvous With Destiny: Ronald Reagan and the Campaign That Changed America," is that they correctly assess the failure of the Republican Party to live up to conservative principles.
"Liberals are right in thinking that the current G.O.P. is for all intents and purposes controlled by marauding consultants whose only interest is power and the access and money that comes with that power," Shirley wrote. "What liberals get right is much of the intellectualism inside the G.O.P has been drained out over the past ten years."
Peggy Noonan, a Wall Street Journal columnist and former speechwriter for Ronald Reagan, and William Kristol, the editor of the Weekly Standard, voiced affection for the liberalism of the past, but had little positive to say about contemporary liberalism.
"We can all agree it's good to be on the side of those who need encouragement, yes? And I have very warm memories of thinking of the Democratic Party as representing that encouragement when I was a kid, and at its best the party still reflects some of that glow," Noonan said.
Furthermore, she argued, "Liberals have been more welcoming - 'Come in, join our club, join our movement.' Conservatives have by nature and tradition been less summoning, less welcoming, as if they don't know politics is a game of addition." In the end, Noonan said, "Sympathy and warmth are two things liberalism got right in the 20th century. May they get them right in the 21st."
Kristol believes that it is up to conservatives to carry forward the liberal banner:
Liberals used to get a lot more right than they do today, in my humble opinion. But today's liberals can still be helpful in reminding conservatives that not everything that flies under the flag of capitalism should be praised or even defended, that Big Business can do as much damage as Big Labor and Big Finance almost as much as Big Government, and that American politics has to capture the spirit of Tom Paine as well as that of Edmund Burke. Above all, liberals can remind conservatives of the past achievements of liberalism - which it's today up to conservatives, primarily, to defend.
Thinking over this two-week experiment in "transideological friendship," as Andrew Ferguson put it, it was impossible not to notice that conservatives were more strategic in their replies, conceding compassion to the left but not political legitimacy. Liberals, in contrast, were less calculating and perhaps more intellectually honest, ceding substantial ground to their adversaries.
In the current environment, strategic calculation is arguably more likely to pay off. Newt Gingrich's success on Saturday in the South Carolina primary suggests that pulling hard to the right can be a winning strategy - at least temporarily.
In Congress, intransigent Republican opposition to compromise last year successfully forced substantial concessions from Democrats and the Obama administration, justifying Speaker John Boehner's Aug. 1, 2011 boast at the conclusion of negotiations on the debt ceiling, "I got 98 percent of what I wanted. I'm pretty happy."
Both political parties are confronting the economics of scarcity and the inevitable austerity measures to come. Cities and states struggle to meet mounting pension obligations. States with balanced budget requirements are being forced to choose between non-trivial benefit cuts or tax hikes reaching beyond the wealthy into the middle class. The federal debt is on track to hit 109 percent of Gross Domestic Product by 2025 and 190 percent of G.D.P. by 2035, breaking historical records. These are not problems that will be resolved by tinkering around the edges of fiscal policy.
The new rules of policy-making will force either constituencies on the left or constituencies on the right to absorb major losses. Under these circumstances, the disposition of conservatives to see choices in zero-sum terms may prove the more clear-eyed approach.

        
For God So Loved the 1 Percent ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (95%); LIBERALISM (94%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ETHICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%) Andrew Ferguson; Conservatism; Craig Shirley; liberalism; Patrick N. Allitt; Peggy Noonan; Peter Wehner; William Kristol; Burke, Edmund; Edsall, Thomas B; Ferguson, Andrew; Johnson, Samuel; Kristol, William; Noonan, Peggy; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Conservatism (US Politics); Economic Conditions and Trends; Liberalism (US Politics); United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; Weekly Standard

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Weekly Standard

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%) Burke, Edmund; Edsall, Thomas B; Ferguson, Andrew; Johnson, Samuel; Kristol, William; Noonan, Peggy; Reagan, Ronald Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



972 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Former Catcher for Red Sox Wins Case Against Merrill Lynch Adviser

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: An arbitration panel awarded Doug Mirabelli and his wife more than $1.2 million in damages and fees. 

 BODY:
Nearly five years after he earned his second World Series ring, Doug Mirabelli has another big win.
This month, an arbitration panel ruled in favor of Mr. Mirabelli, the former Boston Red Sox catcher, in his dispute with one of Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch's top financial advisers. The panel also awarded Mr. Mirabelli, 41, and his wife, Kristin, more than $1.2 million in damages and fees.
The decision was the second defeat for the adviser, Phil Scott, in the last 12 months. A second set of clients, John, Natalie and Harriet Baker, won $880,000 in damages against Mr. Scott in June.
Arbitrators ruled in favor of Mr. Scott in a third case in August. Another case, filed in April, is pending, according to records from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The two defeats are a blow to Mr. Scott, a 27-year veteran of Merrill and one of the most acclaimed members of its vaunted "Thundering Herd" of 15,000 brokers. Mr. Scott was ranked the 33rd top broker in the country and the top adviser in Washington State last year by Barron's, managing about $1.1 billion in client assets.
"He's had a long and distinguished career as a financial adviser," said Bill Halldin, a spokesman for Merrill.
The case pressed by Mr. Mirabelli, who was the personal catcher for the pitcher Tim Wakefield and is now a real estate agent in Michigan, is unusual in some ways. Mr. Mirabelli and his wife invested $880,219 in March of 2008 with Mr. Scott, who put the money into the Merrill Lynch Phil Scott Team Income Portfolios, a collection of 33 dividend-paying growth stocks. They took out loans that made the account worth about $1.8 million. The loans were made on the condition that the account not dip below $1 million.
By November 2008, the Mirabellis' account had fallen below that level, forcing them to sell the portfolio to cover the loans amid markets battered by the financial crisis.
In the arbitration case, lawyers for the Mirabellis argued that Mr. Scott had put his clients' money into unsuitable investments, specifically an all-growth-stock portfolio. They also argued that he had failed to properly brief the Mirabellis on the loans and their requirements.
The three-member panel ruled in favor of the Mirabellis, awarding them their original investment and, in an unusual move, also awarding them all of their legal fees and arbitration costs.
"For Merrill, two awards is fairly significant," said Barry Lax, a lawyer for the Mirabellis and the Bakers. "That the Mirabellis got all their money back shows that they had a really strong case."
Mr. Halldin, of Merrill, said: "We disagree with the panel's decision given the facts presented in this case. This account was handled properly during a very difficult time when there was extreme market volatility."
Merrill has moved to vacate the award given to the Bakers, essentially appealing the case. The firm has argued that the arbitration panel did not take into account recommendations by Mr. Scott that the Bakers not sell their holdings near the bottom of the post-crisis markets.
Merrill has not yet decided whether to do the same for the Mirabelli case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (93%); BASEBALL (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); DIVIDENDS (63%) Mirabelli, Doug; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation; Financial Brokers; Financial Planners; Bank of America Corporation; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Merrill Lynch & Co; Scott, Phil; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%) Bank of America Corporation; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Merrill Lynch & Co

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Mirabelli, Doug

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



973 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Tech Valuations Defy the Restraints of Reality

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Business models be damned. Bargeloads of money move back and forth, following the herd's assessment of any given start-up's recent fortunes. This is Silicon Valley, where decisions are not always made based on revenue or potential business models but instead seem to be driven by a herd mentality and a yearning to be a part of a potential next big thing. 

 BODY:
On a recent Thursday night I stood motionless and perplexed on the dance floor of a San Francisco club. As I looked around, 300 or so people danced and darted back and forth to a free open bar while laser lights shot overhead. Cellphones glowed, like a video of luminescent jellyfish, as people snapped pictures and slung moments of the evening onto dozens of social networks.
What made the evening so perplexing was that the party I was attending celebrated Path, a mobile social network that just two months earlier was essentially written off in Silicon Valley. If the company held a party back then, people would have assumed it was a going-out-of-business sale. Now, after rebooting to positive reviews from the blogosphere, Path is again the talk of Silicon Valley. Some are even proclaiming that the company could be "the next Facebook."
Watching the Valley's perception of Path go from positive to negative and back has been like watching a hyperactive child with a yo-yo. The valuation has oscillated in near synchronicity.
This, I have learned, is the mentality of much of Silicon Valley, where decisions are not always made based on revenue or potential business models, but instead seem to be driven by a herd mentality and a yearning to be a part of a potential next big thing.
This is most evident in the valuations that are given to companies here. Two start-ups, each with 10 million users and no revenue, can be valued anywhere from $50 million to $1 billion.
Facebook is a prime example of this. The company does generate considerable revenue and is currently valued at $84 billion and is expected to reach $100 billion by the time of its initial public offering later this year. That's a higher market valuation than Disney or Amazon.
Paul Kedrosky, an investor and entrepreneur, explained in an interview that one reason valuations are so wildly inflated is that venture capitalists want to be associated with a potentially successful start-up just so it looks good in their portfolio. This, he said, has driven absurd buying on the secondary private market, where stocks are bought and sold before a company goes public.
"There is massive buying on the secondary market by venture guys just for the showmanship of it," he said. "These buyers are much less price sensitive and just want a company in their portfolio so they can stick the logo on their Web site."
A report released last week by SecondMarket.com, such an online marketplace, said it had $558 million in transactions in 2011, up 55 percent from the year earlier. Almost two-thirds of those transactions were for consumer Web sites and social media start-ups.
Other investors give money to several companies hoping to strike it rich with at least one. I call that the Peter Thiel Effect. Mr. Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal, gave $500,000 to Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, when the company was starting out. That investment is now estimated to be worth $2 billion if the entire company is valued at its upper range of $100 billion. .
In other instances, you have spite investing. This is when venture capitalists will give millions of dollars to a start-up simply because they were not given the opportunity to invest in the competitor with the original idea.
Some investors no longer even need to hear about a company to hand out money. Jake Lodwick, an entrepreneur and co-founder of Vimeo, recently raised $2 million simply on the promise that he might have a good idea for a company in the near future.
It's as if someone found out where Hasbro prints Monopoly money and gave every venture capitalist a key to the company's storage facility.
"I have never seen such a generation of people shorting tech stocks," Mr. Kedrosky said, noting that he too has chosen to bet that Groupon, Zynga and LinkedIn will fall significantly in value. "Usually the short community is more nervous about it, but there is a monolithic view that this generation of technology I.P.O.'s is completely broken."
The Disruptions column on Jan. 23, about Silicon Valley's perceptions of the value of social networking companies, misstated the amount and estimated current value of an early investment in Facebook by Peter Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal. It was $500,000, not $100,000, and its current value is estimated at $2 billion, not $1 billion, based on an upper range value of $100 billion for Facebook.

        
Despite Economic Slump, Europe Gets More Tech Start-Ups
        
Falling Valuations: Poison for Venture Capital
        
Fluidigm Gives Up on Going Public
        
Does Silicon Valley Face an Innovation Crisis?
        
The Artist Who Thought Facebook Was 'Ridiculous'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HERD BEHAVIOR (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (63%); INTERVIEWS (62%); WEB SITES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) IPO; Silicon Valley; valuations; Venture Capital; Computers and the Internet; Initial Public Offerings; Start-ups; Facebook Inc; Path.com; Silicon Valley (Calif); valuation

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); SECONDMARKET INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook Inc; Path.com

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012



974 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: After a Legal Setback, Commodity Traders' Complaint Is to Be Heard by a Lower Court

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: At issue is a rule intended to curb speculative commodities trading, which some consumer advocates have blamed for inflating prices at the gas pump and the grocery store. 

 BODY:
Wall Street's legal challenge to a regulatory crackdown met a procedural obstacle last week, when a federal appeals court dismissed the case.
The lawsuit, directed at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's new restrictions on speculative trading, will now move to a lower-level court, delaying a decision on the legitimacy of the regulatory overhaul.
At issue is a rule intended to curb speculative commodities trading, which some consumer advocates have blamed for inflating prices at the gas pump and the grocery store.
But Wall Street says the rule will crimp legitimate trading while doing little to subdue volatile energy costs.
In December, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association filed a lawsuit challenging the so-called position limits rule, which would cap the number of contracts a trader can hold on 28 commodities, including oil and wheat. The influential Wall Street trade groups filed the lawsuits in two federal courts - the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and a lower-level district court in Washington.
But the appeals court late Friday said it lacked authority to hear the case.
"There is no express Congressional authorization of direct appellate review applicable to the petition for review in this case," three appellate court judges said in a two-page order.
The court also rejected a bid by the trade groups to halt the enforcement of the position limits rule while the case winds through the courts. This month, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission also rebuffed a request to stay the rule.
While the appellate court ruling amounts to a symbolic setback for the trade groups, it will not necessarily affect the success of their legal challenge. The appellate court, often seen as friendly turf for corporate America and Wall Street when they skirmish with regulators, may hear the case after the lower court has ruled.
"The court's ruling is entirely procedural, and was not a decision about the merits of our challenge or of our request for a stay," Ira Hammerman, the securities association's general counsel, said in a statement.
But Bart Chilton, a commissioner, said of the case, "The agency took a lot of time and care coming up with a sensible rule that I don't believe can be successfully challenged."
The agency's position limits rule has emerged as one of the most contentious new policies stemming from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, passed in response to the financial crisis. The agency was split, 3-2, when it approved the rule in October.
In the suit, the two groups accused the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of failing to adequately assess the economic effects of the rule. They also argued that the agency "grossly misinterpreted" its authority under Dodd-Frank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); APPEALS COURTS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (92%); LITIGATION (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); PETITIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); JUDGES (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%) Commodities; Decisions and Verdicts; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Futures and Options Trading; Suits and Litigation; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; International Swaps and Derivatives Assn; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (93%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; International Swaps and Derivatives Assn; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



975 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: Did Gingrich's Win Break the Paradigm?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Competing paradigms have arisen in the Republican contest for how to interpret the evidence from polls, voting results and other indicators. And they come to profoundly different conclusions. 

 BODY:
During the Republican nominating contest, competing paradigms have arisen for how to interpret the evidence from polls, voting results and other tangible indicators of success or failure. The paradigms present profoundly different conclusions about the most likely outcome.
One might be called "More of the Same." It asserts that the traditional rules of engagement in a nomination race still apply, and that the empirical evidence from past contests is reasonably powerful.
That evidence looks something like this: Although the nomination is technically decided by delegate counts, and somewhat less literally by the preferences of rank-and-file voters, ultimately the nominee is determined by a sort of open negotiation among the party elite, which includes elected officials, major donors and the partisan news media, among others.
Voter preferences can make some difference, but more as a lagging than a leading indicator. Being well-credentialed and building a traditional campaign matters, and candidates who do not do so may soar in polls but inevitably fall back to earth. Moreover, parties tend to come to fairly rational decisions about their nominee, placing heavy emphasis on electability. (This view is eloquently explained in the book "The Party Decides," by the political scientists Marty Cohen and others.)
The competing paradigm might be called "This Time Is Different." It asserts that a fundamental change has occurred in America's political culture, or that a temporary shift is especially salient in this year's Republican race. 
Under this interpretation, elite support and the ground game do not matter as much as usual. Instead, success is more idiosyncratic: personalities matter a lot, and nominations are determined based primarily on momentum and news media coverage.
There is the potential under these rules for the process to be chaotic. Not only is there no guarantee that voters will "fall in line," but they may actively rebel against presumptions that they will do so, leading to rapid changes in momentum, and increasing the potential that a party will nominate an "unelectable" or nontraditional candidate. Under this view, the best indication of voter sentiment at any given time is probably the polling - although it may be acknowledged or expected that the results will change rapidly.
Up until a few weeks before the Iowa caucuses, it had seemed the "This Time Is Different" paradigm had a lot going for it. Blatantly nontraditional candidates (or pseudo-candidates) like Herman Cain and Donald J. Trump had once led in national polling, something for which there is no good precedent.
Moreover, polls had been exceptionally volatile: Mr. Cain, Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry had each surged then collapsed in a way that was not at all typical. There seemed to be a strong resistance among rank-and-file Republicans to nominating someone like Mitt Romney or Tim Pawlenty or any candidate who was playing by the rules.
Once Republicans got around to voting in Iowa and New Hampshire, however, "More of the Same" had seemed to make a comeback. Yes, there had been late surges in polls, but they benefited candidates who seemed to have earned them: Rick Santorum in Iowa and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. in New Hampshire, who had concentrated heavily on those states and who were good cultural fits for them.
Meanwhile, the candidate who emerged in by far the strongest position in the Republican race was Mr. Romney, who was the overwhelming choice of party elites. He had won New Hampshire going away, and he had appeared to win Iowa. And he had taken a clear lead in national polls of Republicans, of a magnitude that had historically been insurmountable.
I have tried to weigh these competing paradigms in my coverage of the Republican race. But I had found the evidence for "More of the Same" compelling after Iowa and New Hampshire. Suddenly, but not unexpectedly, according to the theory, everything seemed to have fallen into place. The Republican nomination race of 2012 more closely resembled the Democratic contest of 2004, in which there was some ambiguity about the outcome before the voting began, but one candidate - John Kerry - emerged as a clear front-runner after Iowa and New Hampshire and never looked back.
Then came South Carolina.
The political culture there is not well understood. South Carolina has not occupied the crucial role it now plays in the nomination process for long, and conventional wisdom has tended to reach some dubious conclusions based upon on limited sample sizes. South Carolina, moreover, is a quirky state, seemingly having resisted the tendency of its neighbors Georgia, Florida, North Carolina and Virginia to behave less like a Southern state and more like a coastal one.
But South Carolina's seeming rejection of Mr. Romney goes beyond cultural or demographic idiosyncrasies. Mr. Romney was resoundingly defeated by Mr. Gingrich, losing badly among his worst demographic groups and barely beating Mr. Gingrich among his best ones. Had you extrapolated the exit poll cross-tabulations from South Carolina to the other 49 states, Mr. Romney might have lost 47 of them. Moreover, the decline of Mr. Romney was almost as significant in national polls as it was in South Carolina.
Perhaps Mr. Romney's defeat had less to do with the place and more to do with the timing. It is not at all uncommon for voters to rebel against an "inevitable" nominee. In fact, it might be expected under the "More of the Same" paradigm.
Since a version of the current nominating rules were adopted in 1972, the only non-incumbent candidate to have swept all 50 states was Al Gore in 2000, and Mr. Gore was a de facto incumbent, having been the vice president to a popular president and having only one significant intraparty challenger in Bill Bradley.
Meanwhile, candidates as strong as George W. Bush in 2000 took losses somewhere along the way, despite polling at about 50 percent in national surveys from the start of the nomination race to its finish. Voters in different states seem to work together to test their nominee, and to make sure that he is not just handed the nomination, even if they ultimately like him a great deal. Bill Clinton, for instance, lost states like Colorado and Connecticut late in the nomination process to Jerry Brown in 1992, even though his selection was all but assured.
The question, then, is whether there is anything precedent-breaking about Mr. Romney's defeat, one that might provide evidence that "This Time Is Different."
A case can be made that there was something new about Mr. Romney's defeat. The case relies less upon the outcome and more upon the sudden reversal in the polls that was its prerequisite.
After his win in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney built about a 19-point lead in the national polls. No candidate who has led by a margin that large has failed to win the nomination. Yes, Iowa and New Hampshire might behave unpredictably, and sometimes they will not produce a clear front-runner. But when they do, as seemed to be the case for Mr. Romney, their judgment has usually been impeccable. And even when they do not - like when Mr. Bush lost to John McCain in the New Hampshire primary in 2000, or Bob Dole lost there to Pat Buchanan in 1996 - the eventual winner might nevertheless be clear based on national polls and other empirical indicators.
Mr. Romney has not trailed Mr. Gingrich in a national poll since mid-December, but the odds are that he soon will. His lead was already down to 3 points in one recent survey, and that was before the momentum from South Carolina could be factored in.
The cases where the national polling lead shifted after New Hampshire are few and far between. It has never happened in a Republican race, although it did occur for Democrats in 1972, 1984, 1988 and 2008. With the partial exception of 1988, when Michael Dukakis became a fairly clear favorite after Super Tuesday, each of those contests was a fight to the finish.
But in each case the front-runner's lead had been marginal - not like the robust lead that Mr. Romney had seemed to hold. What has been especially strange about the recent reversal in polls is that it seemed to come out of nowhere. The Monday night debate in Myrtle Beach, S.C., was not Mr. Romney's strongest, and he was judged by most observers to have lost it to Mr. Gingrich. Even when a candidate loses a debate, however, he usually does not see an overnight 20-point shift against him in polls.
Perhaps, then, there is profound resistance among Republican voters to nominating Mr. Romney after all. He has significant weaknesses as a candidate, having reversed his position on several major issues at a time when conservative voters distrust the Republican establishment and value authenticity. And he is a Mormon from Massachusetts - not a traditional pedigree for a Republican candidate.
If the resistance is strong enough, perhaps Republicans will nominate Mr. Gingrich. Or perhaps there will be an effort to draft a candidate who is not currently running for president, like former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida or Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin or Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana.
Political parties sometimes do go through challenging phases. In the past, they have not happened to coincide with periods in which the other party had an incumbent president with a 45 percent approval rating amid a poor economy. But parties have tended to nominate more ideologically extreme candidates in their first cycle out of the White House rather than being willing to settle for an electable moderate.
Still, the nomination of Mr. Gingrich would very much violate the "More of the Same" paradigm, given that he has proudly and loudly proclaimed that he will not adopt the auspices of a traditional campaign, and that he would be one of the most unpopular candidates ever to be nominated by a major party.
But perhaps "This Time Is Different." We will learn a lot more in the coming days based on the results in Florida and movement in national polls.
Although there can be a tendency to overreact to developments, there can also be a tendency to stubbornly default to conventional wisdom and previous assumptions about the way the process is supposed to work.
In the case of presidential primaries, previous beliefs ought not be accorded all that much weight: Americans have not been picking presidential nominees in quite this way for all that long, and yet a presidential nomination process is complex. In more abstract terms, both conceptual and statistical models of the presidential nomination process may be "overfit" and draw too many conclusions from idiosyncratic examples.
My view is that Mr. Gingrich's win in South Carolina alone is not enough to be paradigm-breaking. But if he follows it with a win in Florida, all bets are off. Not only would that represent further evidence of Mr. Gingrich's strength, it would suggest that we had been weighing the evidence incorrectly all along.

        
Jon Huntsman's Path to Victory
        
The Real G.O.P. Dark Horse: None of the Above
        
New Florida Polls Show Big Swing to Gingrich
        
Gingrich Tied With Romney in South Carolina Forecast
        
Romney-Obama: No Popularity Contest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) mitt romney; newt gingrich; Presidential Election of 2012; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Florida; Iowa; New Hampshire; South Carolina; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK PERRY (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Florida; Iowa; New Hampshire; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



976 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: A Week of Challenges and Potential for Romney

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney enters Florida on Monday wounded by his political collapse in South Carolina and facing a central challenge for his candidacy: How to regain the initiative after being forced for weeks into a defensive crouch. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney enters Florida on Monday wounded by his political collapse in South Carolina and facing a central challenge for his candidacy: How to regain the initiative after being forced for weeks into a defensive crouch.
In the days before Florida's primary on Jan. 31, Mr. Romney will need to confront the potential breakdown of two pillars of his campaign: that he is the most electable (in exit polls, South Carolina voters saidNewt Gingrich was) and that he is the favorite of those who care about the economy, a title that polls show also went to Mr. Gingrich in the voting on Saturday.
But the week ahead provides a less-than-ideal road map for Mr. Romney. 
On Monday and Thursday, Mr. Romney will square off with Mr. Gingrich and his other rivals in nationally televised debates. Despite solid performances early in the campaign, the two-hour events have become Mr. Romney's most problematic forum as he tries, and fails, to compete with his rivals, and the audiences who seem to love them.
In theory, the debates might give Mr. Romney an opportunity to go on the offensive against Mr. Gingrich andRick Santorum, who has shown a desire to lash out at both men. But it is Mr. Gingrich who has seized the initiative and the attention during the last two debates. Voters who saw them went for Mr. Gingrich overwhelmingly on Saturday, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
Mr. Romney will also be on the defensive on Tuesday as he releases his 2010 tax returns - a partial concession that may not satisfy all of his rivals or his Democratic critics.
Mr. Romney said Sunday that his tax returns had become "a distraction" and that his decision to release one full year's return would provide "plenty of information for people" who are curious about the sources of his income. Reporters and others are sure to mine the tax return for nuggets of news.
The release of his tax documents will come the same day thatPresident Obama gives his third State of the Union address in Washington, a scheduling coup that may lessen the potential impact of the news.
In the meantime, Mr. Romney and his top surrogates are hoping to shift some of the conversation back on Mr. Gingrich by pressing him to release documents related to an ethics investigation during his time in Congress. Gov.Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Romney supporter, said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" that Mr. Gingrich was "run out of the speakership" because of ethics violations and "has been an embarrassment to the party."
Mr. Gingrich called the demands for more information about the ethics charges "bizarre" and said the entire report was available online. He said he planned a series of speeches throughout Florida in the coming week - one on the future of space exploration, one on health care, one on housing, one on economic growth and one on policy toward Cuba and Latin America.
"I hope once a day to do something positive and very clear," Mr. Gingrich said during an appearance on C-Span on Sunday morning.
Mr. Romney's advantage this week may be on the air, instead of on the ground. His campaign has far more money that Mr. Gingrich's, giving him more opportunity to regain the momentum using television commercials. The "super PAC" supporting him has already spent millions of dollars to advertise in Florida, a decision that might help Mr. Romney get back on track.
But the week will end with another debate on Thursday and an opportunity for Mr. Gingrich, with a strong performance, to counter any offensive by Mr. Romney. Rumors over the weekend that Mr. Romney might not participate in the debates were quickly batted down by his aides. But the two forums will complicate his efforts to recover.
Still, Mr. Romney will have four days after the final debate to refocus on his primary arguments - that he remains the best equipped to defeat Mr. Obama, and that his business and state government experience is needed in Washington. If he can do that, he could end the week in a better position than he started it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Florida; South Carolina; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



977 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WEXLER, JACQUELINE

 BODY:
WEXLER--Jacqueline. The Hunter College community is profoundly saddened by the loss of our former President and inspiring mentor. A visionary leader, during her nine-year tenure she oversaw the transfer of the Bellevue School of Nursing to Hunter and helped launch the Brookdale Center on Aging, the Schools of Health Science, the Women's Studies program, and many other initiatives that have had a lasting impact at the College. A superb negotiator and diplomat, Wexler skillfully guided Hunter through New York City's financial crisis in the 70s. Her indomitable spirit lives on at Hunter. We are proud to have a Wexler still grace our halls, Jacqueline's grandson, David, Hunter College student. Our deepest condolences to Paul, Wendy, Wayne and the entire family. Jennifer J. Raab, President, Hunter College Klara Silverstein, Chair, Hunter College Foundation 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



978 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 946 words

PERSON: Edgar F. Kaiser Jr. 

HEADLINE: Edgar Kaiser Jr. Dies at 69; Owned Broncos

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Starting in 1914, Henry J. Kaiser built one of the world's largest business empires, encompassing ships, cement, steel, aluminum and even kitchen sinks. In the 1970s his grandson Edgar F. Kaiser Jr. began methodically dismantling it -- even as he built his own.
When Edgar died at 69 on Jan. 11 in Toronto, he was widely recalled as the former owner of the Denver Broncos who had engineered the trade that brought the quarterback John Elway, later to be named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, to the team in 1983. 
But there were other sides to his life that are less well known. He headed Canada's largest coal producer and the country's seventh-biggest bank. He was a recorded musician. He held a speed record for flying around the world in a small plane. And he once had a dream of producing a vending machine to make instant French fries from potato powder. That venture sputtered and failed.
Undeniably, Mr. Kaiser's shining triumph was persuading the Baltimore Colts to trade Elway to the Broncos, a franchise he bought in 1981 for $33 million. Mr. Kaiser quietly and relentlessly stalked the Colts owners -- not forgetting to point out to Elway that both of them were Stanford alumni. Elway had been the National Football League's No. 1 draft choice in 1983, and the Broncos gave up their own first-round pick and two other players to get him.
Mr. Kaiser sold the Broncos in 1984, doubling his original investment.
Still, his most historic role was an unwanted one: selling off many of the assets that his grandfather had combined to create one of the nation's most powerful economic engines, the conglomerate Kaiser Industries.
He did try to preserve that heritage. He even moved into an apartment at Kaiser's famed but troubled steel plant in Fontana, Calif., in a vain effort to reverse the company's fortunes personally.
But the empire was ultimately taken apart, its pieces sold off. The Fontana plant was dismantled and sent to China.
This was not the legacy Mr. Kaiser had wanted to leave. His ambition had always been to start and direct things, not tear them apart, even if his obligation was to maximize shareholders' return by unloading operations that had become worth more than their stock prices.
He had found that opportunity in Canada in 1970 when he joined Kaiser Resources, an energy-producing unit of Kaiser Industries.
''He is a builder,'' Edgar Sr. once said of his son. ''I think he's kind of got it in his heart that he's going to build Kaiser Resources bigger than all three of those other Kaiser companies,'' referring to Kaiser's giant steel, aluminum and cement companies.
At Kaiser Resources, Mr. Kaiser rose to chairman and chief executive. Under his watch it produced more coal than any other Canadian company, and he expanded it by buying the Canadian assets of Kentucky-based Ashland Oil. In 1980 he sold Kaiser Resources at a big profit.
The hope was that the proceeds might save the family empire, but they were not enough and, anyway, he had made it clear that he did not want to run the family shop even if it were preserved.
''The fun of building the Kaiser companies was the fun that my grandfather and the men that worked with him had,'' he told The Los Angeles Times in 1985. ''And my life's ambition was not to try to somehow achieve the top of administering what they had had fun building.''
So Edgar Kaiser Jr. stayed in Canada, where he had become a citizen. He bought the Bank of British Columbia, a regional bank that challenged Canada's big five banks in some markets until plunging resource prices put it under. For years afterward he popped up in deals in real estate, waste management and other sectors. The French-fry vending machine venture ended in bankruptcy in 1994.
Mr. Kaiser devoted much of his time to the Kaiser Foundation, which he started in Vancouver, British Columbia, to promote compassionate treatment of drug abusers. The foundation announced his death, but did not give a cause.
Maclean's magazine once described Mr. Kaiser as ''a loner who has never been clubby and has never worried about society's niceties or what people think of him.'' So when details of his private life leaked out, they were eagerly printed. How, for instance, when his house in Vancouver caught fire, he rushed to rescue his Lamborghini and Porsche. Or how he demolished a four-year-old mansion so he could replace it with a better one.
Edgar Fosburgh Kaiser Jr. was born on July 5, 1942, in Portland, Ore., graduated from Stanford in 1965 and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1967. He worked for the United States Agency for International Development as an economist in Vietnam. He was a White House fellow in the Johnson administration and an aide to Interior Secretary Walter J. Hickel in the Nixon administration.
It was his father who had asked him to come back to Kaiser -- a request he accepted with sadness, he told The Los Angeles Times, because he knew it would mean dismantling his grandfather's great achievement. His father died in 1981.
In 1969, as an advance man for a Nixon trip to Asia, he met a Pan Am flight attendant, Lilja Arkolainen, whom he divorced his first wife, the former Caroline Orr, to marry in 1974. That marriage, too, ended in divorce. His survivors include his wife, Susan; his son, Edgar III; and his daughter, Suki Kaiser.
Mr. Kaiser raced cars, motorcycles and sailboats; navigated his yacht up the Amazon; and in 1998 released a soft-rock CD called ''Threads of My Life,'' on which he sang his own compositions. In 1988 he set the around-the-world record for a medium-weight airplane, and after landing he drove his 8-year-old son to school. Once inside, he grabbed a globe to give the class a geography lesson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edgar F. Kaiser Jr. in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK DEMPSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CEMENT MFG (78%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); HISTORY (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (92%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); COLORADO, USA (72%) CANADA (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



979 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Between Rails, a Trickle Bearing Dreams

BYLINE: By CHADWICK MOORE

 BODY:
Michael Shannon did it for love.
Mr. Shannon, a 40-year-old tea merchant from Queens, stood on a mostly empty platform in the Nassau Avenue subway station in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, one recent Friday night, a black fox fur stole draped over his shoulders and a black felt fedora atop his great mane of hair.
He tossed pennies, 11 of them in succession, into a litter-strewn pool of water snaking through the track bed. 
''Love, true love. Meeting a beautiful man. Having a beautiful life,'' Mr. Shannon said of his wishes. ''It's worth 11 times.''
Every day, millions of gallons of groundwater are pumped through New York City's subway network. The water enters the system through underground aquifers, bound for the city's storm sewage system.
At some stations, the water table is relatively high. Rivulets form along the track beds. In at least two stations in Brooklyn, riders like Mr. Shannon use these urban springs as places to cast their desires, hopes and dreams.
''I've always wondered about that,'' said a woman carrying a yoga mat the other morning while waiting for a train at the Broadway station in Williamsburg, two stops south of the Nassau station on the G line. ''It's like some sort of New York wishing well. And it's only here. I've never seen it in the city or anywhere else.''
At the Broadway station, hundreds of coins lie beneath the water on the track bed. One commuter likened the station to ''the log ride at Disney World'' because of its cavelike appearance, which includes stalagmites growing from fixtures and hundreds of stalactites, some a foot long, hanging from the ceiling.
Subways, interrupting as they do the natural flow of water underground, are built to move water just as they are to move people. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority built depressions between the rails of its underground track beds to guide water leaching from the ground toward the nearest drain, said Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the agency. The drains direct the water to pumping stations that send it into the storm sewers.
The water's journey can be a long one. In Williamsburg and its environs, said Andrew Kozlowski, a hydrologist for the state, the water visible in the subway fell as rain six months to two years ago and has since been migrating through aquifers toward the East River.
Asked what the transit agency thought about the coin-tossing, Mr. Ortiz offered only a reference to a section of the transit Rules of Conduct that bars throwing items onto track beds. But where people, water and time to contemplate all intersect (the interval between G trains can seem eternal), coins will be tossed.
Fred Bryant, a professor of social psychology at Loyola University in Chicago who studies superstitions, said such rituals gave people an illusion of control over their desires.
''What we know to be true from past research is that when economic times are tough, when people feel a threat in any way, either from military threat or economic, financial threat, superstitions increase,'' Professor Bryant said. ''In the trying to exert control, we are tricked into believing we have it.''
Brittawnee Enos, 27, of Greenpoint, tossed a penny in the water on a recent weekday as she waited for a G train at Broadway.
''I've just been struggling for my goals lately, so I wished to be a little more focused in accomplishing them,'' she said. ''I'm a dancer, and I haven't even been going to class for some time because, you know, distractions and injuries, that sort of thing. I just want to get back into it.''
Emily Hexe, 22, tossed a coin into the pool at the Nassau station on a recent Saturday night, without a specific hope in mind.
''It's almost just in the motion of doing it,'' she said. ''Having a wild hope for something, anything - just remembering the child that's inside myself.''
On one afternoon, the Broadway station platform was abuzz with students from a middle school. Some passed the time by tossing coins onto the track bed.
Daniel Maslowski, a seventh grader, said he wished to win the lottery.
A classmate, Rafal Wadolowski, traveling with a younger cousin, said he wished that his cousin ''would get to the top 10 next year in grades.''
Rafal's cousin wished for the same thing, though she expanded a bit. ''I wished that I would do good in school,'' she said, ''for all the people to do good in school.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Broadway stop on the G line in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Millions of gallons of groundwater flow through the subways daily. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



980 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: New York's Bad Bet

BYLINE: By PAUL DAVIES. 
Paul Davies, a journalist and a fellow at the Institute for American Values, edits an anti-gambling blog.

 BODY:
Philadelphia
THE governor of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, is sending his state down the same wrongheaded path as other states that are trying to gamble their way out of economic trouble by legalizing commercial casinos.
The casinos might create jobs and generate revenue for state coffers, but those gains would come at a cost that casino supporters ignore or play down. Various studies, including research by the economist Earl L. Grinols at Baylor University, have shown that casinos produce little to no economic spinoff and in fact divert spending away from surrounding businesses like restaurants, movie theaters and live entertainment. In the worst cases, some problem gamblers spend money that is needed for groceries, rent or child support.
More broadly, casinos are nothing more than a regressive tax that extracts wealth from the very citizens who can least afford it. The details of Governor Cuomo's plan -- which requires changing the State Constitution -- remain largely under wraps but will likely follow the blueprints of other states that have allowed casinos at select locations. 
While those casinos are billed as ''destination resorts,'' they are really convenience casinos -- typically the size of a big-box retailer -- that rely mainly on repeat gamblers who live in the area. Many are located in rural and working-class towns and cities that cater mainly to low rollers, not James Bond-type jet-setters.
A casino in downtown Cleveland is opening this year in a former department store. Steve Wynn wants to build a ''low rise'' casino in Foxborough, Mass., near a shopping center and the New England Patriots' football stadium. The Sands opened a casino in Pennsylvania in 2009 on the site of a Bethlehem Steel plant.
Florida, Illinois, Kentucky and Maine are among the states considering similar moves to raise revenue. It is all part of a broader gambling expansion that includes efforts to legalize Internet gambling at the federal level and in several states. New Jersey wants to legalize sports betting.
Thirty years ago, Las Vegas and Atlantic City were the only legal casino destinations in the country. But over the last few decades there has been a steady increase in lottery offerings, riverboat casinos and gambling on Indian reservations. Today, 41 states have some form of casino gambling, and all but 7 have a lottery.
Governor Cuomo is correct that New York -- which has a state lottery, casinos on Indian reservations and video lottery terminals at the Aqueduct Racetrack -- is already in the gambling business. Many New Yorkers also travel to Atlantic City, Pennsylvania and Connecticut to gamble. But making gambling even more convenient to residents is not the answer to the state's budget or unemployment woes. Lawmakers are sworn to protect residents, not make it easier for them to lose money.
The economist Paul A. Samuelson described gambling as the ''sterile transfer of money or goods between individuals, creating no new money or goods.'' Warren E. Buffett called gambling a ''tax on ignorance.'' Governor Cuomo's father, Mario, himself a former governor, understood the negative impact. ''There is a respectable body of economic thought that holds that casino gambling is actually economically regressive to a state and a community,'' he wrote in a 1994 book, ''The New York Idea.''
Indeed, studies show that where casinos are established there is often an increase in crime, bankruptcy, divorce and suicide. A study last year by the University of Maryland, Baltimore County found that one in every 30 state residents had a gambling problem. Those most at risk for developing gambling addictions are single men between the ages of 18 and 29, either African-American or Latino, with less education and income than the overall population.
For New Yorkers, opening casinos closer to home would create new gamblers and prompt many residents to gamble more often, especially low rollers who are more likely to get hooked on slot machines. That has been the case in Pennsylvania, which legalized slots in 2004.
At the Parx Casino in Bensalem, Pa., many gamblers come in an average of three to four times a week -- or roughly 150 to 200 times a year, David Jonas, the former president and the chief operating officer of the casino, said at a gambling conference in 2010.
Over all, the number of calls to Pennsylvania's problem gambling help line jumped by 26 percent in the first quarter of last year, according to the Pennsylvania Council on Compulsive Gambling.
New York can expect the same payoff from its bad bet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CASINOS (89%); LOTTERIES (84%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESORTS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%); SPORTS (63%)

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); STEPHEN A WYNN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



981 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Remake The Book, Again

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
A technology company announces plans to reinvent higher education by encouraging the creation of a new kind of textbook. Students will learn better, faster, cheaper. They will be spurred to new triumphs that will finally reverse the persistent decline in American education and the American way of life.
That is more or less the presentation Apple made on Thursday, but it is a song that has been sung before. Nearly three years ago, in May 2009, Amazon said much the same thing when it came up with the Kindle DX, a souped-up e-reader. 
Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, introduced the DX at Pace University, calling the device particularly suited to textbooks. Barbara Snyder, president of Case Western Reserve University, was quoted in the official news release as saying the device ''holds enormous potential to influence the way students learn.''
Case Western, Pace, Princeton, Reed College, Arizona State and other colleges were involved in trial programs to make the Kindle DX available to students. The textbook publishers Cengage Learning, Pearson and Wiley, which were described as representing more than 60 percent of the United States higher education textbook market, were to begin offering textbooks through the Kindle Store within a few months.
It seemed like yet another instance of the way the tech industry explodes antiquated business models. But the plan largely fizzled. As Reed reported in early 2010 in a post-mortem on its trial, ''students and faculty in Reed's Kindle study were unanimous in reporting that the Kindle DX -- in its current incarnation -- was unable to meet their academic needs.''
How did inevitable triumph turn into a non-event?
The Reed pilot gave 43 students Kindle DXs and measured their progress in three upper-level undergraduate courses. Students basically liked the device and found it easy to carry and use. The faculty was happy that students using the e-reader in class would be less likely to goof off than they might with a laptop. But the device proved somewhat more cumbersome than paper texts. For instance, skimming was harder to do electronically, the students said. Quickly finding passages in the text to cite in class was also difficult.
Another issue was price. The Kindle DX sold for $489. While textbooks are a heavy burden on student economics, any early adapters would have to pay for the DX as well as textbooks until the digital transformation was largely complete.
Much of the criticism of the DX in the classroom might disappear with a better device -- like, say, an iPad. But the Reed report noted that the eventual adoption of e-readers in the classroom would not necessarily follow the computer deployment model, where the college or university buys the devices, installs them, provides technical support and even requires them for specific degree programs. Instead, the report thought the devices would follow the consumer cellphone model, where the students, not the schools, make the decisions.
Cellphones, however, communicate over a standardized network. If I have a Verizon phone and you have T-Mobile, we can still make plans for dinner. But Apple and Amazon, to take the two most obvious examples in this market, are not particularly interested in making their platforms available except under the strictest terms. Apple explicitly said Thursday in its FAQs on the announcement that any textbooks sold through it could not be sold anywhere else:
Q. I'm an author (or publisher). Can I distribute this work on my own Web site?
A. You may distribute books created in iBooks Author free of charge on your own Web site. If you wish to sell your book, you must do so through the iBookstore.
Without either a universally accepted file format for textbooks, or the ability of e-readers to accommodate many different standards, the Reed report concluded that ''faculty will find themselves faced with the prospect of selecting course readings based on their compatibility with a particular device rather than on the suitability of the material for the course. It is unlikely that faculty (or librarians) will tolerate such a restriction.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (75%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: CENGAGE LEARNING INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



982 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Former Catcher for Red Sox Wins Case Against Merrill Lynch Adviser

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Nearly five years after he earned his second World Series ring, Doug Mirabelli has another big win.
This month, an arbitration panel ruled in favor of Mr. Mirabelli, the former Boston Red Sox catcher, in his dispute with one of Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch's top financial advisers. The panel also awarded Mr. Mirabelli, 41, and his wife, Kristin, more than $1.2 million in damages and fees. 
The decision was the second defeat for the adviser, Phil Scott, in the last 12 months. A second set of clients, John, Natalie and Harriet Baker, won $880,000 in damages against Mr. Scott in June.
Arbitrators ruled in favor of Mr. Scott in a third case in August. Another case, filed in April, is pending, according to records from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The two defeats are a blow to Mr. Scott, a 27-year veteran of Merrill and one of the most acclaimed members of its vaunted ''Thundering Herd'' of 15,000 brokers. Mr. Scott was ranked the 33rd top broker in the country and the top adviser in Washington State last year by Barron's, managing about $1.1 billion in client assets.
''He's had a long and distinguished career as a financial adviser,'' said Bill Halldin, a spokesman for Merrill.
The case pressed by Mr. Mirabelli, who was the personal catcher for the pitcher Tim Wakefield and is now a real estate agent in Michigan, is unusual in some ways. Mr. Mirabelli and his wife invested $880,219 in March of 2008 with Mr. Scott, who put the money into the Merrill Lynch Phil Scott Team Income Portfolios, a collection of 33 dividend-paying growth stocks. They took out loans that made the account worth about $1.8 million. The loans were made on the condition that the account not dip below $1 million.
By November 2008, the Mirabellis' account had fallen below that level, forcing them to sell the portfolio to cover the loans amid markets battered by the financial crisis.
In the arbitration case, lawyers for the Mirabellis argued that Mr. Scott had put his clients' money into unsuitable investments, specifically an all-growth-stock portfolio. They also argued that he had failed to properly brief the Mirabellis on the loans and their requirements.
The three-member panel ruled in favor of the Mirabellis, awarding them their original investment and, in an unusual move, also awarding them all of their legal fees and arbitration costs.
''For Merrill, two awards is fairly significant,'' said Barry Lax, a lawyer for the Mirabellis and the Bakers. ''That the Mirabellis got all their money back shows that they had a really strong case.''
Mr. Halldin, of Merrill, said: ''We disagree with the panel's decision given the facts presented in this case. This account was handled properly during a very difficult time when there was extreme market volatility.''
Merrill has moved to vacate the award given to the Bakers, essentially appealing the case. The firm has argued that the arbitration panel did not take into account recommendations by Mr. Scott that the Bakers not sell their holdings near the bottom of the post-crisis markets.
Merrill has not yet decided whether to do the same for the Mirabelli case.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A three-member arbitration panel awarded Doug Mirabelli, seen in 2001, more than $1.2 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); DIVIDENDS (63%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



983 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: For M.T.A. and Union, Obstacles Delay a Contract

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
One week after the expiration of a labor contract between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Transport Workers Union Local 100, there is no shortage of evidence that the two sides are far apart on a new deal.
Talks in Manhattan were halted on Thursday, after the union accused the authority of bad-faith negotiations by revealing its proposals in the news media; neither side seemed hopeful that a new deal was imminent.
But the atmosphere seems far less charged than in past negotiations; there is certainly no suggestion that the union could go on strike, as it did in 2005. The current economic climate is making it hard for most unions to reach agreements without accepting huge concessions, so both sides appear to be taking their time. 
''This is a real strategic decision by the union,'' said Joshua B. Freeman, a professor of labor history at Queens College. ''I think they thought it would be difficult to win a favorable, decent contract at the time of expiration.''
In 2005, contract negotiations dissolved into a three-day strike that briefly crippled the city and in the long term devastated the union's finances. In 2009, both sides went to arbitration that stretched on for months.
But this time, the union let its Jan. 15 deadline for a new contract pass and kept talking. Local 100's president, John Samuelsen, said that the union had more faith that the authority's new chief, Joseph J. Lhota, would work with them.
As soon as Mr. Lhota started his new job and even before he had been confirmed by the State Senate, he and Mr. Samuelsen held meetings, had lunch together and jointly sent a letter to the city's five district attorneys regarding the enforcement of laws against the assault of transit workers.
Even though Mr. Samuelsen halted negotiations on Thursday afternoon because of an article in The Daily News on the contract talks, he said they would keep negotiating.
''The union is not planning to strike,'' Mr. Samuelsen said. ''Lhota has gone out of his way to distinguish himself from his predecessor, Jay Walder. The union recognizes that, and the union is looking to get back to the bargaining table.''
The biggest negotiations seem to involve how the authority can balance its budget while agreeing to any raises. On Jan. 9, shortly after Mr. Lhota was confirmed by the Senate, the agency sent the union a 19-point list of proposed cuts: it included slashing vacation time for workers who had been on the job less than 10 years and offering overtime only after employees had completed a 40-hour work week, not an 8-hour workday.
Union officials have said they do not want to bear the brunt of the agency's cost-cutting measures and suggested a three-year contract with cost-of-living increases that keep pace with inflation. Over the past week, union officials have come back with a range of suggestions to meet its goal.
''The M.T.A. has taken a position that any raises in the life of a contract, whether it's three years or five years, would have to be paid solely by productivity concessions, which I reject,'' Mr. Samuelsen said. ''We need to have more money in this contract than the state has thus far allotted.''
A spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Jeremy Soffin, said only that agency did ''not negotiate in the press.''
How much the agency can ultimately offer may be decided in Albany; Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who appointed Mr. Lhota to his position, recently pushed for two state unions to accept major concessions to avoid layoffs.
''They essentially signed contracts that make their lives worse,'' Professor Freeman said. ''I don't think we're going to see the same thing with the T.W.U. because the M.T.A. can't threaten to lay off thousands of members. They're a much more directly required force.''
The two sides have reached agreements on some issues, like finding jobs for workers who complete the union's apprenticeship programs and improving access to restrooms for female transit workers. Mr. Samuelsen said Mr. Lhota supported improving women's bathrooms before the contract is signed.
''It didn't take a lot for him to recognize the need for an upgrade in the treatment of its female transit workers,'' Mr. Samuelsen said. ''Even if a contract is not reached imminently, I believe there is a commitment by Joe Lhota and the M.T.A. to address these decades-old concerns.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Monday about contract talks between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Transport Workers Union Local 100 misspelled the surname of the union president and misstated the middle initial of the chairman of the M.T.A. The union president is John Samuelsen, not Samuelson, and the M.T.A. chairman is Joseph J. Lhota, not Joseph H.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); BAD FAITH (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); OVERTIME (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HISTORY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012



984 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: More Lockouts As Companies Battle Unions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
America's unionized workers, buffeted by layoffs and stagnating wages, face another phenomenon that is increasingly throwing them on the defensive: lockouts.
From the Cooper Tire factory in Findlay, Ohio, to a country club in Southern California and sugar beet processing plants in North Dakota, employers are turning to lockouts to press their unionized workers to grant concessions after contract negotiations deadlock. Even the New York City Opera locked out its orchestra and singers for more than a week before settling the dispute last Wednesday.
Many Americans know about the highly publicized lockouts in professional sports -- like last year's 130-day lockout by the National Football League and the 161-day lockout by the National Basketball Association -- but lockouts, once a rarity, have been used in less visible industries as well.
''This is a sign of increased employer militancy,'' said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University. ''Lockouts were once so rare they were almost unheard of. Now, not only are employers increasingly on the offensive and trying to call the shots in bargaining, but they're backing that up with action -- in the form of lockouts.'' 
The number of strikes has declined to just one-sixth the annual level of two decades ago. That is largely because labor unions' ranks have declined and because many workers worry that if they strike they will lose pay and might also lose their jobs to permanent replacement workers.
Lockouts, on the other hand, have grown to represent a record percentage of the nation's work stoppages, according to Bloomberg BNA, a Bloomberg subsidiary that provides information to lawyers and labor relations experts. Last year, at least 17 employers imposed lockouts, telling their workers not to show up until they were willing to accept management's contract offer.
Perhaps nowhere is the battle more pitched than at American Crystal Sugar, the nation's largest sugar beet processor.
Last summer, contract negotiations bogged down, with the company insisting that its workers agree to higher payments for health coverage, more outsourcing and many other concessions. Shortly after the 1,300 unionized workers -- spread among five plants in North Dakota, Minnesota and Iowa -- voted overwhelmingly to reject those demands, the company locked them out and hired replacement workers.
That was on Aug. 1, more than five months ago, and since then the workers and their families have been scrounging to make ends meet. Some face foreclosure and utility disconnection notices.
American Crystal has hired more than 900 replacement workers to keep its plants running. Federal law allows employers to hire such workers during a lockout, although they cannot permanently replace regular employees. Employers can pay the replacements lower wages, although as is the case with American Crystal, the companies sometimes need to offer higher wages and help pay for housing to attract replacements.
With many private-sector labor unions growing smaller and weaker, and with public-sector unions under attack in numerous states, some employers think the time is ideal to use lockouts, a forceful approach they were once reluctant to use.
Many employers, though, say they have little choice.
Robert Batterman, a labor lawyer who represents employers, said whether it was the N.F.L. or Sotheby's, which locked out 43 art handlers in Manhattan last July, ''the pendulum has swung too far toward the employees, and the employers are looking in these tight economic times to get givebacks.''
''Employers,'' he continued, ''are using lockouts because unions are reluctant to do what the employers consider reasonable in terms of compromising. Employers are looking to reset their collective bargaining relations.''
After being out of work since Aug. 1, Paul Woinarowicz, a warehouse foreman employed at American Crystal Sugar for 34 years, sees another rationale for lockouts.
''It's just another way of trying to break the union,'' said Mr. Woinarowicz, a member of the bakery and confectionery workers union. ''People here in the Red River Valley are really mad at American Crystal. It was just like a knife stuck in your heart.''
With American Crystal earning record profits before the lockout, the workers strongly opposed its push for concessions. Mr. Woinarowicz noted that the company's most recent quarterly report showed a sharp decline in production and profits -- a development the workers said showed the lockout was taking a toll. American Crystal said the drop was due to a smaller sugar beet crop and higher operating costs.
American Crystal accuses union negotiators of being inflexible and denies that it is seeking to break the union. For many employers, lockouts have proved highly successful. Last July 17, Armstrong World Industries locked out 260 workers at its ceiling tile plant in Marietta, Pa., after they rejected the company's offer as stingy on pensions and health coverage.
After being locked out for five months, the workers accepted a contract only slightly different from the one they had originally voted down. Union officials said the workers knew Armstrong had the upper hand.
There have been several recent lockouts at hospitals, often after nurses engaged in a one-day walkout. To hire replacement nurses from a staffing company, hospitals often have to commit to hiring them for at least a week, so a one-day nurses' strike is often followed by a four-day lockout. But at some health care facilities, like West River nursing home in Milford, Conn., where management locked out 100 workers on Dec. 13, companies see lockouts as a way to wrest concessions and set an example for workers at their other facilities.
DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the National Football League Players Association, said the football, hockey and basketball leagues ordered lockouts in recent years for a clear reason: to gain leverage in negotiations.
''The lockout is designed to put you at a distinct disadvantage,'' he said, saying it places huge pressures on players who typically have short professional careers. The National Hockey League's lockout of 2004-5 canceled an entire season.
Mr. Smith said, ''A lot of players have careers of two or three years, and you might get a player who asks, 'At what point is this fight worth one-third of my career?' ''
For Jeannie Madsen, a lab technician at American Crystal, the lockout has meant strains for her and her fiance, also a worker there. With her former husband also locked out and suspending child support payments, she said she could not afford new school clothes and shoes for her children and had to stop paying her daughter's orthodontist bills. She said Wells Fargo would soon foreclose on her home.
''What's most upsetting is that it's affecting the lives of many innocent children,'' she said.
The sides are holding occasional negotiations but remain deadlocked.
Ms. Madsen said the company was continually putting up barriers to a settlement, essentially pressing the workers to surrender. Company officials did not return phone messages, but Brian Ingulsrud, the company's vice president for administration, wrote in an editorial for a Fargo newspaper that ''American Crystal Sugar remains committed to good-faith negotiations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers picketed in January after a lockout in August by American Crystal Sugar, the nation's largest sugar beet processor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
At left, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio talking to locked out workers in Ohio. Above, DeMaurice Smith of the N.F.L. Players Association during the league's lockout over the summer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY WADSWORTH/THE BLADE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); LOCKOUTS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); STRIKES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); BEET SUGAR MFG (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); LAWYERS (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); LAYOFFS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



985 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Let's Raze Javits Center (but First Finish Renovations)

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Part of architecture's appeal, at least to architects, is posterity: the notion that what they design will last. So it came as something of a shock to the architect Bruce S. Fowle this month when he learned that a building he was renovating is already on death row.
In his State of the State address on Jan. 4 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced plans to demolish the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which Mr. Fowle has been working to repair and redesign for the past six years.
''The waste of creative energy, money and material that would result in its being torn down is painful to think about,'' Mr. Fowle said during a walk through the center last week. ''When you're worrying about every detail -- trying to do the best you can to make something that represents the city -- it's like having the rug pulled out from under you.'' 
Mr. Cuomo proposes replacing the Javits Center with private redevelopment that would include housing, hotels and museums, and selling or leasing the state-owned land to developers.
Conventions would be staged instead at a larger center to be built at the Aqueduct racetrack in Jamaica, Queens, with $4 billion from Genting, a Malaysian gambling company.
The Javits Center is now in the midst of an extensive renovation to make it a brighter, greener convention space with a brand-new glass facade. But if the demolition, still years away, were to happen as planned, Governor Cuomo would be among those who would not be shedding tears.
''The day it opened it was outdated and already behind schedule,'' he said in an interview with editors and writers for The New York Times last week, ''and other states had built larger facilities.''
The Javits Center had been considered ripe for renovation almost since it opened in 1986 because it was too small for large trade shows and conventions, and many considered the dark-glass behemoth as an eyesore blocking views of the Hudson River.
''It's just such an awful building that the only reason to keep it would be as a monument to stupidity,'' said Mark Wigley, the dean of Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation.
In 2005 government officials announced an ambitious plan to expand and rethink the Javits Center and hired a star architecture team to make it happen.
It included the British architect Richard Rogers of Pompidou Center fame; Mr. Fowle, whose firm, FXFowle, helped transform Times Square with the Conde Nast building; and the Epstein firm of Chicago, which brought convention center expertise.
They planned essentially to start over from scratch at a cost of more than $1.5 billion, extending the convention hall to West 40th Street from 39th Street and increasing exhibition space to more than one million square feet from less than 800,000.
The architects also proposed integrating the convention center, west of 11th Avenue, with the surrounding area and exploiting its proximity to the river. The design, unveiled in 2006, featured a towering glass wall broken up by a series of stairs and elevator towers that aligned with the street grid.
But as the project went through various governors -- George E. Pataki, Eliot Spitzer, David A. Paterson -- and as the recession hit, the price tag was determined to be closer to $3 billion, and the plan was abandoned. (Mr. Rogers left the project.)
The mandate became considerably more modest: reinvigorating the existing structure rather than reimagining an entirely new one. A revised plan, adopted in 2009, called for a $390 million renovation, which consisted of basic work necessary for the Javits Center to remain open for business.
About $190 million has been spent so far. Of the remaining money $150 million will be spent finishing the job, which is expected to be completed by 2014. (The remaining $50 million will be held back as a contingency for unforeseen expenses.)
Now, with the project about halfway complete, the architects and construction crew must press on, knowing that their work may soon be relegated to the scrap heap.
Nevertheless Mr. Fowle and his colleagues say they continue to take pride in the work. They have replaced the front facade with clear glass, reduced the number of entrances for more organized access; brightened the ceiling and updated the lighting. A seven-acre green roof being built is expected to improve energy efficiency by 25 percent.
''When we finish our work it's going to be a fantastic facility,'' said Michael Damore, an executive managing director at Epstein. ''Nothing can be done in Queens for a long time.''
The state says these efforts have not been wasted, that they will be an important stopgap measure pending completion of a convention space in Queens.
''This is essential work to fix basic issues such as well-documented roof leaks that have been covered by hanging diapers,'' said Austin Shafran, a spokesman for Empire State Development, the state agency that oversees the center. ''Finishing this work will allow Javits to hold on to the business it has and be an acceptable facility while it still stands.''
Visiting the center the other day Mr. Fowle pointed to aspects of the project that are now ''on hold'' or ''not going to happen,'' like a more pedestrian-friendly landscaped plaza out front.
''We would like to finish what we started,'' he said.
But he also pointed out improvements, like improved visual order. ''It's not the black hole that it was,'' he said. ''The space will feel brighter, more cheerful.''
Although he said he feels deflated, Mr. Fowle said he would not let the work become sloppy. ''My standards are too high for that,'' he said. ''We've got too many good things happening here to walk away.''
And, maybe, he said, the redesign would make the case that the building deserves to live. ''Once people see it all in place, they're going to change their attitude,'' he said.
Mr. Fowle said the center had an undeserved bad reputation, that its original design, by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, worked well until it became corrupted by pop-up food-service kiosks and other makeshift construction. ''It's one of the great spaces in the world, and to have it all deteriorated with this kind of intervention has really been unfortunate,'' he said. ''Any great architectural space needs a curator.''
The center's Crystal Palace, a 150-foot-high lobby at the south end, stems from a tradition of glass pavilions that dates back to the 19th century, Mr. Fowle said as he walked through it. ''There are very few spaces in the world like this,'' he added. ''This one is all restored now and will potentially last forever. Unless the wrecking ball comes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A $390 million renovation is under way at the Javits Center on the west side of Manhattan. (C1)
Renovations of the Javits Center have included replacing sides of the glass facade.
 New glass has been installed in the southern Crystal Palace. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); GAMING (66%); WRITERS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



986 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: In a City Fighting Blight, 'Ghost Signs' as Portals to a Bygone Era

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich.
Here, along a seamless stretch of small-city blight, a deserted storefront had held its own. With 9 of its 10 front windows broken, it fit in among the two boarded-up bank buildings, last used as houses of worship, and the abandoned Jimmy's Custom Cleaners, whose claim to being open remained true, since you could stroll right into the emptiness.
Finally, a year or two ago, demolition workers knocked down this Highland Avenue building in a municipal act filed somewhere between reclamation and surrender. But in doing so, they uncovered a rare portal to the faraway past, when boys wore knickers and Highland Park was the vibrant home of the Ford Motor Company's first moving assembly line. 
The demolition revealed two colorful, well-preserved advertisements that had adorned the brick side of the adjacent building for nearly a century. Their two-story assumptions of endless prosperity are particularly conspicuous in the Highland Park of today, a city so economically distressed that it recently removed most of its streetlights.
One of the ads spells out the long-gone clothing brand of Honor Bright in bold red letters floating in sky blue, along with the blurb: ''Boys Blouses, Shirts and Playsuits for Real Boys From Morn 'Till Night.'' It depicts two youngsters, both in ties. One, holding schoolbooks, wears knickers and a newsboy cap; the other, riding a bicycle, wears a faintly maniacal grin.
Nearby is another ad, for ''A Thoro-Bred Work Shirt'' called Black Beauty. Against its golden backdrop stands an older boy in his late teens, exuding the confidence to take his place in the assembly lines of Highland Park or, perhaps, the front lines of the Great War.
What is it about old advertisements, sometimes called ''ghost signs,'' that so intrigues us? After all, they are nothing more than expired expressions of commercialism, conveying little care for art or posterity. Yet our scanning gaze will almost always get lost in their echoing calls for attention. Why?
Perhaps we see them as faded invitations to another time, asking us to imagine the everyday rhythms of life when their fresh-paint message first shouted from a brick facade. We study the typeface rarely used today, the phrasing of language that rings odd to the modern ear and, most of all, the names of companies and products once so vital and now no more.
''It's a reminder of our own timeline and how quickly things become obsolete,'' said Frank Jump, a photographer and the author of ''Fading Ads of New York City,'' (The History Press, 2011). ''One minute people had thriving businesses building buggies, and the next minute Henry Ford is pushing out automobiles on an assembly line and nobody wants horse and buggies anymore.''
When the ads for Honor Bright and Black Beauty first appeared, between 1915 and 1925, Highland Park was in glorious ascent. The Ford assembly lines were humming, and the city had become a desirable community whose population had grown tenfold, to 45,000, in a decade.
Surely there were Boy Scouts in Highland Park who knew the Scout prayer that asked the Heavenly Father to help ''keep my honor bright.'' Perhaps they had seen the Honor Bright ads in Boys' Life magazine, or Youth's Companion. (''Ask Mother to have the storekeeper show her some of these dandy Honor Bright Shirts and Blouses.'')
Of course, the boys could be forgiven for not knowing that the Reliance Manufacturing Company, the owner of the two clothing brands, was criticized by competitors for using cheap, exploitative prison labor. And how could these children have guessed that one day there would be another great war, one in which they might wear uniforms and even parachutes made by Reliance?
At some point, the brick ads disappeared from sight and memory behind new construction. Then came the next minute, as Mr. Jump might say: stiffer competition, new highways leading to new suburbs, foreign imports, the departure of Ford and Chrysler, steep drops in population and jobs.
When the ads reappeared, it was to an entirely different city, one of abandonment, decline and the hope for a return to days when children carried schoolbooks and rode bicycles, carefree and smiling.
Highland Park, a three-square-mile city encased within Detroit, is working to stabilize its neighborhoods by removing blight. But two city officials could not say why or when the building on Highland Avenue was knocked down. Neither had even noticed the murals, which is understandable, given everything else that needs attention in Highland Park.
But James Griffioen, a Detroit writer and photographer, did notice the murals late last year, which prompted him to post photographs and a little backstory on his blog, Sweet Juniper.
The ads were ''nearly as bright'' as when they first appeared some 90 years ago, Mr. Griffioen wrote, ''in a vibrant neighborhood full of working men and women not far from Henry Ford's Highland Park Model T assembly plant, in what is now one of the roughest neighborhoods to be found in this city so deeply ravaged by the disinvestment in American manufacturing.''
The building on which these ancient ads appear is now a satellite home for the House of Jacob Bible Study Class of Chicago. Marguerite Wright, who manages the group's Web site, remembers the first time she saw the paintings of those happy boys. ''I was amazed,'' she said.
But she cannot remember exactly when the building next door was knocked down. Was it a year ago? Two? Three? It's so easy to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A faded ad from the early days of Highland Park, Mich., once a city in ascent. The mural was revealed when an adjacent building was demolished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); WRITERS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



987 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include pending home sales for December (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, durable goods for December, new-home sales for December and leading economic indicators for December (Thursday); and gross domestic product for the fourth quarter and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for January (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Halliburton and Texas Instruments (Monday); AK Steel, DuPont, Harley-Davidson, Johnson & Johnson, Kimberly-Clark, McDonald's, Verizon Communications, Advanced Micro Devices, Apple and Yahoo (Tuesday); Abbott Laboratories, Boeing, ConocoPhillips, Corning, Delta Air Lines, General Dynamics, United Technologies, US Airways, WellPoint, Xerox and Netflix (Wednesday); 3M, AT&T, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Caterpillar, Colgate-Palmolive, JetBlue Airways, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, United Continental, Amgen, Eastman Chemical and Starbucks (Thursday); and Chevron, D.R. Horton, Ford Motor, Honeywell International, Newell Rubbermaid and Procter & Gamble (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES A House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee will conduct a hearing about how the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will function under its new director, Richard Cordray, and the Federal Open Market Committee will meet for a two-day discussion about the economy and interest rates (Tuesday). A House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's investigation into the risk of fire in the battery of the Chevrolet Volt (Wednesday).
OVERSEAS European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels (Monday). The Bank of Japan will issue a decision about interest rates, and the International Monetary Fund will release updated forecasts for the world economy and financial stability (Tuesday). The World Economic Forum will start in Davos, Switzerland (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); AIRLINES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%)

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (71%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (69%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); BOEING CO (57%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (57%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); WELLPOINT INC (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); D R HORTON INC (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (56%); AMGEN INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (56%); NETFLIX INC (56%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (71%); ABT (NYSE) (71%); ABT (LSE) (71%); ABL (FRA) (71%); COP (NYSE) (71%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (69%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); AKS (NYSE) (57%); GD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); WLP (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); CL (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); DHI (NYSE) (56%); LMT (NYSE) (56%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); NWL (NYSE) (56%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%); HON (NYSE) (56%); HON (LSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (71%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (71%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (56%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (56%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (66%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (66%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



988 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Court Widens Role, Stirring Fears

BYLINE: By DECLAN WALSH

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Once they were heroes, cloaked justices at the vanguard of a powerful revolt against military rule in Pakistan, buoyed by pugnacious lawyers and an adoring public. But now Pakistan's Supreme Court is waging a campaign of judicial activism that has pitted it against an elected civilian government, in a legal fight that many Pakistanis fear could damage their fragile democracy and open the door to a fresh military intervention.
From an imposing, marble-clad court on a hill over Islamabad, and led by an iron-willed chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, the judges have since 2009 issued numerous rulings that have propelled them into areas traditionally dominated by government here. The court has dictated the price of sugar and fuel, championed the rights of transsexuals, and, quite literally, directed the traffic in the coastal megalopolis of Karachi.
But in recent weeks the court has taken interventionism to a new level, inserting itself as the third player in a bruising confrontation between military and civilian leaders at a time when Pakistan -- and the United States -- urgently needs stability in Islamabad to face a dizzying array of threats. 
Judges say their expanded mandate comes from the people, dating back to the struggle against the military rule of Gen. Pervez Musharraf that began in 2007, eventually helping to pry him from power. Memories linger of those heady days, when bloodied lawyers clashed with riot police officers, and judges were garlanded and paraded as virtual saints.
In recent months, however, the Supreme Court has ventured deep into political peril in two different cases. Last week, as part of a high-stakes corruption case, it summoned Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to testify in court under threat of contempt charges that, if carried to conviction, could leave him jailed and ejected from office.
The court has also begun an inquiry into a scandal known here as Memogate, a shadowy affair with touches of soap-opera drama that has engulfed the political system since November. It has claimed the job of Pakistan's ambassador to the United States and now threatens other senior figures in the civilian government, under accusations that officials sought American help to head off a potential military coup.
Propelled by accounts of secret letters, text messages and military plots, the scandal has in recent days focused on a music video featuring bikini-clad female wrestlers that is likely to be entered as evidence of immorality on the part of the central protagonist, Mansoor Ijaz, an American businessman of Pakistani origin.
Hearings resume Tuesday when Mr. Ijaz is due to give evidence. The fact that the courts have become the arena for such lurid political theater has reignited criticism, some from once-staunch allies, that the Supreme Court is worryingly overstepping its mark.
''In the long run this is a very dangerous trend,'' said Muneer A. Malik, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association who campaigned for Justice Chaudhry in 2007. ''The judges are not elected representatives of the people and they are arrogating power to themselves as if they are the only sanctimonious institution in the country. All dictators fall prey to this psyche -- that only we are clean, and capable of doing the right thing.''
The court's supporters counter that it is reinforcing democracy in the face of President Asif Ali Zardari's corrupt and inept government. On Saturday, Justice Chaudhry pushed back against the critics.
The court's goal was to ''buttress democratic and parliamentary norms,'' he told a gathering of lawyers in Karachi. Deep-rooted corruption was curtailing justice in Pakistan, he added.
''Destiny of our institution is in our own hands,'' he said.
Mr. Chaudhry was appointed to the Supreme Court under General Musharraf in 2000. Two years later he wrote a judgment that absolved the military ruler for his 1999 coup. But Mr. Chaudhry shocked his patron and his country seven years later with decrees that challenged General Musharraf's pre-eminence. Senior security officials were ordered to track down individuals being illegally held by the military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, in some cases working with the F.B.I. and C.I.A. The privatization of state companies came under sharp scrutiny.
Then, on March 9, 2007, General Musharraf tried to fire Justice Chaudhry and placed him under house arrest. Protesting lawyers rushed into the streets in support of the chief justice. New cable television channels broadcast images of the tumult across the country. Power drained from General Musharraf, who resigned 18 months later.
The euphoria was soon tempered, however, by growing tensions with the new government. Mr. Zardari hesitated to reinstate Mr. Chaudhry, believing that he was too close to his political rivals and the military.
The standoff led to fresh street protests in 2009, led by the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. That March, amid dramatic scenes that included a threatened march on the capital, Mr. Zardari relented and Justice Chaudhry returned to the bench.
Within months, the Supreme Court had cleared the way for the possible prosecution of Mr. Zardari in a Swiss corruption case dating to the 1990s. The government cited Mr. Zardari's presidential immunity, and argued, along with some international analyst groups, that the court was specifically targeting the president.
But among the wider public, the court was winning broad support. It engaged in a series of muscular interventions to champion the cause of ordinary Pakistanis, some of which broke new ground. Judges expanded the civil rights of hijras, transgendered people who traditionally suffered discrimination, called senior bureaucrats and police officials to account, halted business ventures that contravened planning laws, including a McDonald's restaurant in Islamabad and a German supermarket in Karachi, and issued a decree against the destruction of trees along a major road in Lahore.
The court's populist bent has infuriated the government but won cheers from urban, middle-class Pakistanis -- the same people who had supported the lawyers' drive against General Musharraf. Largely young, frustrated by traditional politics and angered by official graft, they constitute a political class that has in recent months flocked to Imran Khan, the cricket star turned politician who is enjoying a sudden surge in popularity, and is a strong defender of the judiciary.
But the court's activism has also taken many erratic turns. Justice Chaudhry has fought trenchant battles to win control of judicial appointments, a process traditionally in the government's purview. While the judiciary has vigorously pursued Mr. Zardari, it absolved Mr. Sharif of his alleged crimes. And critics accuse Mr. Chaudhry of failing to reform the chaotic lower courts, which remain plagued by long backlogs. ''Three years after the restitution of the chief justice, the delivery of justice remains as poor as it has ever been,'' said Ali Dayan Hasan, of Human Rights Watch.
The gravest charges, though, swirl around the memo scandal. Mr. Ijaz claims to hold an unsigned memorandum showing that Mr. Zardari's government sought covert United States government help to avert a military coup in the poisonous aftermath of the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May.
But the memo's provenance is unclear and Mr. Ijaz's credibility has come under assault in the news media. Last week a music video that went viral on the Internet showed Mr. Ijaz acting as the ringside commentator in a wrestling contest between two bikini-clad women and that, in one version, featured full nudity -- a shocking sight in conservative Pakistan.
The furor, which made front-page news, injected a fresh sense of absurdity into proceedings that already were under question, and that many here insist would never have started without military intervention: the Supreme Court ordered the inquiry on Dec. 30 at the direct request of the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and the ISI director general, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, who harbor little love for Mr. Zardari. Also, the court ignored other claims by Mr. Ijaz that the army secretly sheltered Bin Laden, and sought outside support to mount a coup -- acts that, if proven, could be equally treasonous.
Suspicions about the court's impartiality were renewed last Friday, when Mr. Chaudhry ordered the government to disclose whether it intended to fire General Kayani or General Pasha -- even though such decisions are normally the government's prerogative.
The titanic three-way struggle among generals, judges and politicians comes at a time when Pakistan has become increasingly chaotic. Taliban insurgents continue to roam the northwest, the economy is in dire straits and urgently needed reforms in education, health and other social sectors have been largely ignored.
From the standpoint of the United States, the deadlock has diverted the spotlight from military airstrikes that killed 26 Pakistani soldiers in November and brought the two countries' troubled relationship to a new low. But it has also drawn attention away from a pressing priority of the United States in Pakistan: engaging cooperation here to help negotiate a peace settlement with the Afghan Taliban as a major troop withdrawal slated for 2014 draws near.
''In the midst of this institutional wrangling, nobody has a clear plan as to how politics or foreign policy are going to move forward, said Dr. Paula Newberg of Georgetown University, who has written a book about Pakistani constitutional politics. ''Pakistan could easily have a much brighter future. But it gets itself worn down by these incessant disputes about where power lies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police in Islamabad outside the Supreme Court building, where Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani testified last Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAISAL MAHMOOD/REUTERS)
 Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry is the Supreme Court's iron-willed chief justice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AAMIR QURESHI/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SCANDALS (86%); COUPS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); RIOTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); POLITICS (69%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CORRUPTION (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (61%); MUSIC (61%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); WRESTLING (50%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



989 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: How Esquire Survived Publishing's Dark Days

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Esquire magazine, a monument to male vitality, seemed about to keel over in 2009. Famous for laying down a much-followed literary track with an article in 1966 by Gay Talese titled ''Frank Sinatra Has a Cold,'' the magazine found itself gasping for breath and fighting for survival.
Amid the plague that hit the magazine industry back then, Esquire was worse off than most. Beaten up by a crop of lad magazines like Maxim, then hammered by the flight of advertisers and readers to the Web, Esquire suffered a 24.3 percent loss in advertising pages compared with 2008, which was almost as bad, by the way. A Web site for investors, 24/7 Wall Street, predicted in 2009 that Esquire would be one of ''Twelve Major Brands that Will Disappear'' the following year. 
Worse still, guys like me who have a general interest in the general interest -- politics, music, sports, and yes, good-looking women -- were looking elsewhere for guidance on how to be a modern man. I didn't fit the demo perfectly -- my fashion look has been compared to a laundry basket that grew legs -- but I still should have been an Esquire reader. Like so many others, however, I began assembling my own content, grabbing sports from Deadspin, political profiles from New York magazine, and music advice from sites like Pitchfork.
For long-form reading, I had a nightstand full of narrative heaves from The New Yorker, and celebrity news had become so ubiquitous that I found myself uninterested in Esquire cover articles about Angelina Jolie or Ben Affleck, no matter how good the writing was.
Though it continued to be a handsome, well-crafted magazine, amid the sparkle of all the saucy new media, Esquire began to look like your father's Oldsmobile. And we all know what happened to that brand.
David Granger, the editor in chief of the magazine, said that during those grim days he fired 20 percent of his staff and slashed editorial pages.
''It was ugly around here,'' he said, sitting in his 21st floor office in Midtown Manhattan looking out toward the buildings stacked in rows like dominoes. ''I don't think it was ever as dire as it was portrayed, but we had a deep recession in the magazine business, and the recovery has been a fragile one.''
Mr. Granger is known in the industry as a relentlessly decent, talented guy. Balding, with a mug that would not be out of place at a V.F.W. hall, he may wear custom-made shirts, but he will spend more time telling you the story behind the amazing woman who made them than how much they cost. He gets excited about stuff -- stories, writing, cocktail recipes, shoes -- in a way that is hard to resist.
But nice guy or no, he was up against it back then, hard, and changes had to be made. This would be the spot where the modern media executive jettisons tradition and dumps seasoned writers and editors overboard in favor of shiny faces with reduced price tags. He did none of that.
Esquire's four narrative horsemen -- Scott Raab, Tom Junod, Charles Pierce, and John H. Richardson, who have been turning out big, ambitious pieces for years -- remain in place, as do the people who edited them, Peter Griffin and Mark Warren. Classy that, to stay with those that brought you even though your magazine is hemorrhaging money. But here's the weird part, and no one is more surprised than I am.
Esquire is not dying -- it is killing it. In 2011, a year when the magazine industry was flat to down a bit, Esquire was up 13.5 percent in ad pages from the previous year. This at a time when GQ was down 6.3 percent in advertising pages and Details was down more than 10 percent, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. David Carey, the chief of Hearst Magazines, said that the private company did not discuss profits, but added: ''Relative to our other 20 businesses, Esquire was No. 1 in year-over-year performance. David has done an amazing job.''
Unpacking Esquire's revival is complicated, but worth thinking through. As the magazine came under pressure from other publications and the Web, Mr. Granger departed from standard design templates and modernized the front of the magazine to reflect the growing interest in marginalia and small laughs, with goofy asides and in-jokes.
And though Esquire may sell ''Man at his best,'' it's not some kind of unattainable bible of perfection. Somewhere on the continuum between dude and dandy, the magazine has found a sweet spot; Esquire looks and feels like something a bunch of guys put together for a bunch of other guys, not a glossy widget produced by a big corporation.
There is a bawdy sensibility, partly lifted from lad magazines before they lost their heat, but there's not a lot that's dumb or rank. Esquire is something a regular guy can open up without feeling like a frat boy or a fop.
Mr. Granger said he always felt that well-turned print products got unfairly slagged in the rush to new media. Bullish on the medium and stubborn by nature, he decided that Esquire was not going to get run over. ''There's nothing wrong with the magazine form that constant diligence won't fix,'' he said. (It's true, Mr. Granger said, that newsstand sales, usually a good measure of heat with consumers, were down at the end of the year).
For its 75th anniversary issue in 2008, right about the time magazines were heading off a cliff, he and his designers put together an ''E-Ink'' cover that flashed, right there on the newsstand. In 2009, they published an issue with a QR tag on the cover that allowed readers to scan the codes into their webcams and bring its subject, Robert Downey Jr., to life on their screens. That may sound a little cheesy and so last year, but those early efforts at innovation left Esquire well positioned for the introduction of the iPad, an opportunity that had many other magazines scrambling.
Working in partnership with ScrollMotion, Mr. Granger and his crew came up with an immediate hit for the iPad in late 2010, one that Mashable suggested was ''ahead of its peers'' because it wasn't ''just another magazine under glass.''
In the January edition of the iPad app, George Clooney opens a door and asks, ''What are you doing here?'' A standing segment called ''Funny Joke from a Beautiful Woman'' featured Ari Graynor, an actress from the TV show ''Fringe,'' warming up the video camera with a few come-hither looks while romping in panties and a muscle shirt. She tells a joke about squirrels -- I can't really remember the particulars -- and then cracks wise as the video segments ends saying, ''Nothing like telling a joke in your underwear.'' And nothing quite like watching the bit come to life in video, either.
And though all the tech efforts might seem like digital Botox on an aging brand, the audience and advertisers have bought in. According to comScore, Esquire.com had over two million unique visitors in December 2011, up from over 300,000 as recently as September 2009. Advertisers like to see a legacy brand show muscle in a new realm.
''The Esquire you see in 2012 is a very different property than it was in 2006,'' said Lee Jelenic, the United States advertising manager for cars at Ford, a company that knows a bit about recovery and reinvention. ''It is a very competitive category, and Esquire has evolved very quickly as the landscape has changed.''
All the digital geegaws aren't going to win a lot of National Magazine Awards, which Mr. Granger is old-school enough to take as an important metric of success. Then again, when I visited him, there was already a herd of so-called Ellies -- the statues given to winners -- up front, including three from 2009, when Esquire was supposedly in its death throes.
''My staff responded to what was going on -- those were really terrible times -- with an absolute flowering of creativity,'' he said. ''Bad as it was, 2009 may have been our best year editorially in a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Granger, Esquire's editor in chief, helped revitalize a magazine many had left for dead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



990 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Rising Strife Threatens Iraqi Stability

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Reporting was contributed by Yasir Ghazi, Duraid Adnan and Omar al-Jawoshy from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Mosul.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Violence and political instability have escalated across Iraq since the withdrawal of American forces, as political and sectarian factions have fought for power and influence in a struggle that, within weeks, has threatened to undo the stability that allowed the pullout in the first place.
The most recent turbulence came over the weekend when a Shiite governor threatened to blockade an important commercial arterial road from Baghdad to the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in the north if Kurdish officials did not hand over Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi to government authorities. The Shiite-led national government has accused Mr. Hashimi, a Sunni, of running a sectarian death squad. 
On Sunday, the advocacy group Human Rights Watch said the Americans had left behind a ''budding police state,'' with the country's Shiite leadership increasingly ruling by force and fear. Insurgent attacks have surged across the country, and as security forces loyal to the Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite, have pressed a campaign against Sunni politicians, arresting several in the past week.
The turmoil has come at a time when Iraqis had hoped their leaders would be emboldened by their new independence to tackle the nation's multitude of problems -- finally confronting the social, economic and religious divisions that were papered over by the presence of American troops.
But while there remains hope that Iraqis can still unite, the country is far from the ''sovereign, stable and self-reliant'' place President Obama described it as last month.
''Before the United States withdrew, our politicians were saying that we are a government of national unity, and that we are a democracy, and that is all they talked about,'' said Dr. Basam Edis, 45, a physician from the northern city of Mosul. ''Now people are wondering if militias will take control of the cities again. It is all happening because our politicians are now fighting for a bigger piece of the pie.''
He added, ''Our politicians have become vampires who do not care about us.''
The worst break came when Mr. Maliki ordered Mr. Hashimi's arrest last month. In response, Sunni politicians boycotted Parliament and cabinet meetings, bringing an already unproductive political process to a halt. Sunni-majority provinces began talking about greater autonomy or even breaking away from the central government.
Amid the paralysis, Mr. Maliki publicly threatened to release secret information that he said would implicate politicians in terrorist plots. Then, last week, Mr. Maliki stripped the boycotting Sunni ministers of their posts. Sunni politicians responded by calling him a dictator.
The political dysfunction has become so acute that it is considered a positive sign that Shiite and Sunni leaders are at least arguing about who will attend meetings to discuss where a next round of meetings will be held. Those meetings would then aim to resolve the political crisis.
''All these years, the United States stayed here trying to polish the political process so they would have an excuse to leave Iraq victorious,'' said William Warda, an analyst in Baghdad. ''But the fact is, they left a very shaky political structure, one that has a very weak foundation. It is like a building standing on a match. What has happened since the withdrawal has proved this even more.''
The criticisms from Human Rights Watch were released in their annual report on human rights in various countries. The group said that the Iraqi government had significantly restricted freedom of expression in the nation over the past year and that security forces had intimidated, beaten and detained activists, demonstrators and journalists.
''After the formal withdrawal last month, the political clampdown has intensified, and Maliki has threatened his political opponents with jail,'' the group's Middle East director, Sarah Leah Whitson, said in an interview.
At the same time, Al Qaeda has increased its attacks while shifting its focus toward Iran's influence in Iraq. On three different days in the past month, the daily death toll rose past 60, and on more than a dozen days the toll was more than 10. Without the help of American Special Operations forces, the Iraqi military and police forces have appeared unable to curb attacks on religious pilgrims, civilians and security officers.
''The United States withdrew rapidly after being repeatedly attacked by our mujahedeen in order to save their military from a quagmire,'' Al Qaeda in Iraq said in a recent posting on its Web site. ''The American military withdrawal is a defeat in every sense of the word, but the war is not over because Iran is trying to establish a Shiite buffer zone in Iraq and extend its Islamic revolution to Medina and Mecca,'' it said, referring to Muslim holy sites in Saudi Arabia
Al Qaeda said the Iranian government, which trained and financed militias in Iraq involved in sectarian violence and attacks on American troops, had helped destroy Iraq by ''killing the best families, the elite, the educated.''
As problems have persisted inside Iraq, its leaders have struggled to deal with neighbors, including Turkey, one of the largest foreign investors.
According to members of Mr. Maliki's bloc, the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, called Iraqi politicians about 10 days ago and told them that they should peacefully deal with one another as they try to resolve their differences.
Around the same time, Mr. Erdogan called Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to express his concern about the tensions between Shiites and Sunnis in Iraq, warning that the crisis could lead to a sectarian war.
The calls angered Mr. Maliki because he felt that Mr. Erdogan, a Sunni, was criticizing how he was dealing with the country's affairs. In a television interview, Mr. Maliki said that Mr. Erdogan was acting as though he controlled Iraq, and said that Mr. Erdogan should stop meddling.
The issue has lingered. Last week, the head of Iran's Quds Force was reported to have said that Iraq and southern Lebanon were under Iranian control. In response, top Kurdish, Sunni and Shiite politicians in Iraq called on Mr. Maliki to reprimand the Iranians as he had the Turks.
''I expected a lot of wisdom and a sense of calm between the Iraqi officials, especially after the United States troops withdrew,'' said Abdul Baqi Abboud, 59, a teacher from Basra. ''But the contrary has happened, and they have acted recklessly and without a sense of responsibility. They have proved that they are teenagers, and we will now expect more problems.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police forces removed the body of man killed in a clash with the police at a checkpoint in Ramadi, Iraq, in Anbar Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AZHAR SHALLAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); BOYCOTTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RELIGION (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (56%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



991 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Ventures Into Florida, A State Harder to Pigeonhole

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL and JEFF ZELENY; Susan Saulny contributed reporting from Ormond Beach, Fla.

 BODY:
TAMPA, Fla. -- After three bruising contests that each produced different winners, the Republican nominating contest has moved to a state that is much more like the rest of America in its diversity, its multiplicity of media markets and its voter base, which is less likely to be swayed by the family values issues that played a dominant role in prior contests in Iowa and South Carolina.
Florida is in many ways composed of distinctly different parts, posing particular challenges to the candidates as they try to appeal to the immigrant-rich Miami region, the more conservative north or the retirees sprinkled around the state who carry with them the political loyalties bred elsewhere.
But one thing that unifies the Republican primary voters who will cast ballots on Jan. 31, analysts said, is that they are less ideological and want Florida to be the tie-breaker state, choosing the candidate who is best able to defeat President Obama. 
Jobs and the still-depressed housing market are top concerns of voters, polls show. The state, which has a 9.9 percent unemployment rate, and where one in every 360 housing units is in foreclosure, lags behind the rest of the country in rebounding from the recession.
''We'll see who can do the better job in November, not just who's the most conservative,'' said Fernando Perez, 36, a medical equipment salesman, who listened to Mitt Romney speak at a rally in Ormond Beach, Fla., on Sunday evening. ''The economy is definitely No. 1 for me.''
The Florida race is the first contest that approaches the scale of a general election fight, where retail campaigning is significantly overshadowed by advertising.
In many ways, the primary battle here will be a showdown between the substantial advantages Mr. Romney has built through his fund-raising and on-the-ground organization -- including a successful early-voting operation that locked in many of his supporters before his loss in South Carolina -- and the momentum and grass-roots energy that Newt Gingrich picked up over the last week.
Mr. Romney holds significant advantages in money and organization: he has already spent at least $4 million on advertising here, according to an independent analysis. ''It's a very, very different race going to Florida now,'' said Stuart Stevens, a strategist for Mr. Romney.
Aides believe Mr. Romney has at least 125,000 votes already in the bank through absentee ballots and early voting, which people can do more than a week before the election. Most of those absentee ballots votes were cast when the former Massachusetts governor had an aura of inevitability after winning the New Hampshire primary, and before Mr. Gingrich's runaway victory in South Carolina on Saturday.
But Mr. Romney's big edge in money and organization may play a smaller role here than expected. Floridians have been exposed to saturation coverage of the nominating fight since last year, muffling the impact of attack ads, and there are two more debates, one on Monday night and another on Thursday.
Mr. Gingrich performed well in South Carolina partly because many voters believed that his debate performances suggested that he could prove a formidable opponent to Mr. Obama, something that could play out here as Republicans seek a viable candidate for November.
''The first couple of polls out after tomorrow night's debate that look at how Obama stacks up against Romney and Gingrich will have a big impact'' on whom voters rally behind, said Susan MacManus, a political scientist at the University of South Florida, where the debate takes place.
An intriguing wild card may be the former Florida governor Jeb Bush, whom many establishment Republicans once hoped would enter the race. After Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney sought his endorsement, he decided to stay neutral, he told Bloomberg News over the weekend.
But Mr. Bush called on Mr. Romney to release his tax returns, and on Sunday Mr. Romney -- under pressure from other Republican leaders -- said he would do so, on Tuesday. Mr. Bush also urged the candidates to tone down their harsh rhetoric on issues like illegal immigration, to appeal to independent voters in the general election, a tactic they have mostly ignored until now in the quest to rally the conservative base.
Florida's Republican governor, Rick Scott, who was elected in 2010 by a razor-thin margin with Tea Party support, has also said he is inclined not to endorse a candidate, although he was approached by three of the four.
The Florida primary is closed, so only Republicans can participate, unlike the first three contests, which allowed independents or Democrats to cross over and vote. Florida Republicans are hardly monolithic, with Cuban-Americans in the south to rock-ribbed social conservatives in the panhandle, mixed with a large influx of new voters and retirees. Party officials estimate that two million people will cast ballots on Jan. 31.
Fifty delegates are up for grabs in Florida, all of which will be awarded to the winner of the primary, making the battle critical for Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich in their effort to win 1,144 delegates needed to clinch the nomination.
Going into Florida, Mr. Gingrich also enjoys momentum coming out of South Carolina. And Tea Party sentiment, which helped fuel Mr. Gingrich's rise in South Carolina, is alive and well in Florida and was important in the races for governor and Senate in 2010.
The Gingrich campaign is not as skeletal here as it was a few weeks ago. Mr. Gingrich took a detour from campaigning in South Carolina to open an office in Orlando, and he has announced a chairman and a deputy for each county.
Besides perennial issues that matter to Florida Republicans like the economy, immigration and the size of the federal government, Mr. Gingrich's rivals are likely to go after him here over his temperament.
Justin Sayfie, a co-chairman of the Romney campaign in Florida, conceded that Mr. Gingrich would arrive in the state on Monday with a wave of momentum. But the organization Mr. Romney has been building for months, he said, cannot be overlooked.
''There are nine long days until the Florida primary date,'' Mr. Sayfie said. ''As we saw in South Carolina, that's enough time for momentum to shift considerably. By Tuesday night, South Carolina's results will seem a distant memory and the candidates will be sized up in the final week on how they are faring with Florida's diverse and titanic G.O.P. electorate.''
Rick Santorum, who will have a harder time in the state with its smaller evangelical Christian bloc, campaigned in Florida on Sunday, but since the state has a winner-take-all contest, his campaign may not devote as many resources here as it did to the other states.
The fourth candidate still in the race, Ron Paul, does not plan to actively campaign in the state, instead looking ahead to several Western states with caucuses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum made the rounds in Florida, speaking at a Sunday service at the Worldwide Christian Center in Pompano Beach, above. Left, at a Santorum event in Cape Coral, a man who apparently has not yet decided on a Republican candidate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FAMILY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RECESSION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); FORECLOSURE (66%); FUNDRAISING (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (89%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



992 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Turns Its Focus to Florida

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
A drastically reshaped Republican presidential campaign begins anew in Florida on Sunday as the party's establishment confronts the likelihood of an extended and bitter leadership fight and the increasing possibility that Newt Gingrich could be its nominee.
Mr. Gingrich's stunning victory over Mitt Romney in South Carolina on Saturday all but ensured 10 days of intense campaigning in Florida, which holds its primary on Jan. 31. Adding to the urgency: voters in Florida have already started mailing in absentee ballots.
A blitz of the television advertisements in Florida has begun, and the candidates are set to arrive there today. They face yet another nationally televised debate on Monday night in Tampa, Fla.
For some veterans in the party, Mr. Gingrich's victory increased the very possibility that some of them fear -- that the combative and volatile Mr. Gingrich with whom they had worked in Washington would become the new face of the party. 
Speaking on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday morning, Mr. Gingrich acknowledged those concerns and said he wore them as a badge of honor as he pushed forward toward the nomination. ''The establishment is right to be worried about a Gingrich nomination,'' he said. ''We are going to make the establishment very uncomfortable. We are going to demand real change in Washington.''
Some of Mr. Gingrich's former colleagues have warned -- often anonymously -- that he cannot be trusted to lead the party, or the country. ''Newt's absolutely brilliant,'' an admirer who negotiated with him in Congress told The Daily News of New York on Saturday night. ''He has 100 ideas; 97 are real good, the other three will blow up the world.''
Mr. Gingrich said he was not surprised by that kind of reaction, but he dismissed it as the same kind of nervousness that some in the party's establishment exhibited when Ronald Reagan was first running for national office. ''I'm happy to be in the tradition of Ronald Reagan as the outsider who scares the Republican establishment,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''And frankly, after the mess they made of things, maybe they should be shaken up pretty badly.''
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney also did not wait to engage each other as the Florida campaign got under way. Both men appeared on Sunday morning talk shows, seeking an advantage by hammering the other's experience and character.
Appearing on ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Romney said that Mr. Gingrich ''has some explaining to do,'' among other things, about a global warming public service announcement he taped with former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Mr. Romney said that despite the results in the South Carolina primary, Republican voters will not ultimately choose as a nominee ''who spent 40 years in Washington as a congressman and a lobbyist.''
The former Massachusetts governor also questioned Mr. Gingrich's ''sobriety'' and ''steadiness.''
''He's not as reliable a conservative leader as some people might imagine,'' Mr. Romney said of Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker.
But Mr. Romney conceded that Mr. Gingrich had a ''good week'' politically in South Carolina, while he had not. And Mr. Romney bowed to mounting pressure from Mr. Gingrich and others to release his tax returns, saying he will do so on Tuesday.
''We made a mistake in holding off as long as we did,'' Mr. Romney said, adding that the issue had become a distraction. ''We'll be putting our returns on the Internet. People can look through them.''
Mr. Gingrich said on Sunday morning that Mr. Romney's decision is ''a good thing. I commend Governor Romney for doing it.''
Having last week attacked Mr. Romney for refusing to release his taxes, Mr. Gingrich said on C-Span's ''Morning Journal'' program that it was time to move on.
''As far as I'm concerned, that issue is behind us,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
Gov. Christopher Christie of New Jersey, perhaps Mr. Romney's most prominent supporter, had some very sharp words against Mr. Gingrich, saying on NBC's ''Meet the Press, ''I think Newt Gingrich has embarrassed the party over time.''
''He was run out of the Speakership by his own party,'' the governor said. ''He was fined $300,000 for ethics violations. This is a guy who's had a very difficult political career at times and that has been an embarrassment to the party. You remember these times, you were here.''
Mr. Romney appeared on Fox News and dismissed concerns that with the release of his tax returns, he might lose support when voters learn how much money he had donated to the Mormon Church. He said he had made a promise ''to God'' to tithe 10 percent of his income to his church.
He said voters would be ''pleased with someone who made a commitment to God and followed through on the promise.''
Mr. Gingrich's large margin of victory in South Carolina erased whatever momentum Mr. Romney might have earned from an equally large win in New Hampshire 10 days earlier. The first three contests, including the Iowa caucuses, have provided little clarity for the fractured party, handing a victory to three different candidates, with the belated recognition last week that Rick Santorum won in Iowa.
Mr. Santorum, who came in third in South Carolina but pledged to go on to Florida, continued to lash out at his rivals on Sunday, calling Mr. Romney a ''moderate'' and accusing Mr. Gingrich of being an erratic leader.
''That's not a choice between a conservative and a moderate. It's a choice between a moderate and an erratic conservative, someone who on a lot of the major issues has been just wrong,'' Mr. Santorum said on the ABC News program ''This Week.''
Mr. Santorum reserved especially aggressive language for Mr. Gingrich, calling him a ''very high-risk candidate'' who will undermine the policies of Republicans on Capitol Hill and elsewhere.
But Mr. Santorum also said that Mr. Romney no longer had an aura of inevitability.
''I've beaten Mitt Romney. Newt Gingrich has beaten Mitt Romney,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''The idea that conservatives have to coalesce in order to beat Mitt Romney, well, that's just not true anymore. Conservatives actually can have a choice.''
Mr. Santorum dismissed the idea that the results in South Carolina made it harder for his campaign to move forward. He said the fact that different candidates had won each of the first three states gave his candidacy a real lift.
''If you don't like the state of the play of the race right now, just wait until the next race,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''And we're going to see a completely different story. And that's the dynamism of this race.''
But many Republican leaders held their fire immediately after Mr. Gingrich's South Carolina victory.
Karl Rove, the former top political adviser to President George W. Bush, said on Fox News on Saturday night that Mr. Gingrich needed ''to broaden this message of 'He's the Massachusetts moderate and I'm the conservative.' ''
On ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Rove added that Mr. Gingrich's attacks on the news media -- while popular among Republican primary voters -- would cause him problems with independents during a general election matchup with President Obama.
''It does create a little bit of problem with independent voters in the general election,'' Mr. Rove said, noting that those voters are concerned with jobs, the economy and health care.
Meanwhile, Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, indicated on Saturday night that he would remain neutral in the primary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); BALLOTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



993 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Fed Begins an Effort to Remove All Doubt on What It's Doing

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve, which does not like to surprise financial markets, has worked unusually hard to prepare the public for the changes to its communications policies that it plans to introduce on Wednesday.
While the changes could make it easier for the Fed to move ahead with another round of asset purchases later this year, by helping to explain why the economy needs additional stimulus, officials have indicated that any such plans remain on the back burner, and may stay there so long as the economy continues to recover.
Indeed, the Fed is able to focus on communication in part because it is no longer devoting all of its energies to crisis management. These are improvements that the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has waited five years to make, reflecting his vision for how the Fed should operate in periods of calm, too. 
The centerpiece of the new policies is a plan to publish the predictions of senior Fed officials about the level at which they intend to set short-term interest rates over the next three years -- including when they expect to end their three-year-old commitment to keep rates near zero. The Fed also will describe the expectations of those officials for the management of the central bank's vast investment portfolio.
The first forecast will be published after a two-day meeting, starting on Tuesday, of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy for the central bank. The committee also is considering the publication of a statement describing the Fed's goals for the pace of inflation and level of unemployment, which it has never formalized.
''Our moves toward greater openness in recent years have made our policies more effective and helped the public understand the Fed's actions better,'' John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a recent speech.
Any bolder steps, he said, ''will depend on how economic conditions develop.''
This is not the first time the Fed has tried to get past crisis management. And after several false starts in which it overestimated the strength of the recovery, officials have been careful to insist that they still stand ready to do more if necessary.
The economy, after all, is merely muddling along. While economists calculate that fourth-quarter growth was relatively strong, most forecasters expect a much slower pace of growth in the new year. The Fed's own forecast, which will be updated Wednesday, anticipates growth of up to 2.9 percent. Most other guesses are lower.
Unemployment also remains a deep and prevalent affliction. Almost 24 million Americans could not find full-time work in December; the unemployment rate has ticked downward in part because many people have stopped looking for work.
Senior Fed officials have also sought to focus attention in recent months on the depressed condition of the housing market, arguing that other parts of the government can and should do more to help homeowners and revive sales. Some Fed officials have advocated that the Fed buy large quantities of mortgage-backed securities, which could further reduce interest rates on mortgage loans.
But several Fed officials have said in recent speeches that they are hesitant to support new efforts to improve growth, because they think monetary policy has exhausted most of its power, and because they are worried about inflation.
''Steady even if unspectacular growth accompanied by inflation in the neighborhood of 2 percent justifies some reluctance to change, in either direction, the F.O.M.C.'s accommodative policy,'' Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said in a speech this month.
Mr. Lockhart added a standard caveat for Fed officials, that the persistence of high unemployment required the Fed to keep thinking about doing more.
''Now is not a time to lock into a rigid position,'' he said.
But Fed officials have made clear that high unemployment is an insufficient cause for additional action, at least as long as inflation remains near 2 percent.
Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said in a recent speech that the economy would not create enough jobs to return unemployment to normal levels for ''perhaps even four or five years.''
''Sooner, of course, would be better for everyone,'' she said. ''But I want to be on a path toward full employment that doesn't create an inflation problem down the road.''
The communications changes that the Fed plans to announce Wednesday mark the furthest advance in a 20-year-old campaign to increase the transparency of its decision-making as a means to increase the impact of its policies. As recently as the early 1990s, the Fed still did not regularly announce the decisions reached at its policy meetings. Now it plans to start publishing predictions about the outcomes of future meetings to guide investor expectations.
The Fed disclosed its plans this month when it released a description of the committee's most recent meeting, in December. On Friday it followed up by releasing the templates that will be used to publish the predictions.
The predictions themselves could have a mild effect on markets. The Fed said this summer that it would maintain short-term rates near zero through middle of 2013, at least. Mr. Bernanke has since underscored the words ''at least,'' and analysts expect the forecast will show that most members of the committee intend to hold rates near zero into 2014.
Pushing back that timetable will tend to reduce interest rates, but the impact is likely to be minor, as asset prices already reflect an expectation that rates will not rise before 2014.
''In policy terms, this is a historic change,'' Paul Ashworth, chief North American economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note to clients. ''In practical terms, however, the change isn't going to have any major impact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is focusing on improving Fed communications with the economy out of crisis mode. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



994 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: A Week of Challenges And Potential for Romney

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Mitt Romney enters Florida on Monday wounded by his political collapse in South Carolina and facing a central challenge for his candidacy: How to regain the initiative after being forced for weeks into a defensive crouch.
In the days before Florida's primary on Jan. 31, Mr. Romney will need to confront the potential breakdown of two pillars of his campaign: that he is the most electable (in exit polls, South Carolina voters saidNewt Gingrich was) and that he is the favorite of those who care about the economy, a title that polls show also went to Mr. Gingrich in the voting on Saturday.
But the week ahead provides a less-than-ideal road map for Mr. Romney. 
On Monday and Thursday, Mr. Romney will square off with Mr. Gingrich and his other rivals in nationally televised debates. Despite solid performances early in the campaign, the two-hour events have become Mr. Romney's most problematic forum as he tries, and fails, to compete with his rivals, and the audiences who seem to love them.
In theory, the debates might give Mr. Romney an opportunity to go on the offensive against Mr. Gingrich andRick Santorum, who has shown a desire to lash out at both men. But it is Mr. Gingrich who has seized the initiative and the attention during the last two debates. Voters who saw them went for Mr. Gingrich overwhelmingly on Saturday, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
Mr. Romney will also be on the defensive on Tuesday as he releases his 2010 tax returns - a partial concession that may not satisfy all of his rivals or his Democratic critics.
Mr. Romney said Sunday that his tax returns had become ''a distraction'' and that his decision to release one full year's return would provide ''plenty of information for people'' who are curious about the sources of his income. Reporters and others are sure to mine the tax return for nuggets of news.
The release of his tax documents will come the same day thatPresident Obama gives his third State of the Union address in Washington, a scheduling coup that may lessen the potential impact of the news.
In the meantime, Mr. Romney and his top surrogates are hoping to shift some of the conversation back on Mr. Gingrich by pressing him to release documents related to an ethics investigation during his time in Congress. Gov.Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Romney supporter, said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' that Mr. Gingrich was ''run out of the speakership'' because of ethics violations and ''has been an embarrassment to the party.''
Mr. Gingrich called the demands for more information about the ethics charges ''bizarre'' and said the entire report was available online. He said he planned a series of speeches throughout Florida in the coming week - one on the future of space exploration, one on health care, one on housing, one on economic growth and one on policy toward Cuba and Latin America.
''I hope once a day to do something positive and very clear,'' Mr. Gingrich said during an appearance on C-Span on Sunday morning.
Mr. Romney's advantage this week may be on the air, instead of on the ground. His campaign has far more money that Mr. Gingrich's, giving him more opportunity to regain the momentum using television commercials. The ''super PAC'' supporting him has already spent millions of dollars to advertise in Florida, a decision that might help Mr. Romney get back on track.
But the week will end with another debate on Thursday and an opportunity for Mr. Gingrich, with a strong performance, to counter any offensive by Mr. Romney. Rumors over the weekend that Mr. Romney might not participate in the debates were quickly batted down by his aides. But the two forums will complicate his efforts to recover.
Still, Mr. Romney will have four days after the final debate to refocus on his primary arguments - that he remains the best equipped to defeat Mr. Obama, and that his business and state government experience is needed in Washington. If he can do that, he could end the week in a better position than he started it.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ETHICS (86%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



995 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Romney Relents On Tax Returns As Race Rolls On

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Jeff Zeleny reported from Tampa, and Jim Rutenberg from Charleston, S.C. Susan Saulny contributed reporting from Ormond Beach, Fla.

 BODY:
TAMPA, Fla. -- Facing a restive Republican Party and a resurgent Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney shifted course on Sunday and agreed to release his tax returns this week, as the two candidates and their allies buckled in for a combative and unpredictable new phase of the presidential nominating campaign.
Not 24 hours after Mr. Gingrich's victory in the South Carolina primary, the two camps were trading charges over the Congressional ethics inquiry on Mr. Gingrich in the 1990s, over Mr. Romney's tax returns and over whether Mr. Gingrich's consulting work for the government-sponsored mortgage lender Freddie Mac amounted to lobbying.
Their immediate battleground is Florida, which will hold its primary in eight days. But their intensifying duel was also shaping up as a proxy battle in the fight between the Republican Party's establishment wing -- in favor of Mr. Romney -- and a grass-roots insurgency that, for now at least, seems to be coalescing around Mr. Gingrich as a no-holds-barred opponent to President Obama in the fall. 
''He's done something that most people don't really understand,'' said Mallory Factor, a Republican activist based in South Carolina who organizes a weekly meeting of conservative donors in New York City. ''He has channeled the frustration of the Republican base and independents.''
Mr. Gingrich moved quickly to take advantage of his victory with a new fund-raising push that he told supporters in a Twitter message had already brought in more than $1 million by late afternoon Sunday.
But perhaps the biggest question hanging over Mr. Gingrich's ability to prevail in Florida is whether Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire casino owner who bankrolled the ''super PAC'' Winning Our Future that ran negative ads against Mr. Romney in South Carolina, will write another multimillion-dollar check to finance similar attacks in Florida, where airtime is expensive.
Mr. Romney's decision to release his tax returns on Tuesday -- after weeks in which he had equivocated about whether and when he would release them -- reflected the loss of what had seemed to be his commanding front-runner's position. After saying just days ago that he would release them in April, Mr. Romney said on ''Fox News Sunday'' that on Tuesday he would make public his return from 2010 and an estimate of the numbers in his 2011 return.
Moving to strip Mr. Gingrich of his anti-establishment credentials, Mr. Romney and his campaign on Sunday began a more assertive effort to define Mr. Gingrich as a Washington insider whose tenure as House speaker was marked by chaos and ethical lapses.
They pressed for more information about the ethics investigation into Mr. Gingrich and portrayed him as part of a special interest culture. Speaking of Mr. Gingrich at an outdoor rally in Ormond Beach, Fla., Mr. Romney said, ''He's been working as a lobbyist, selling influence around Washington.'' He also called him a ''failed leader.''
Mr. Gingrich dismissed the claim that he had been a lobbyist. But he belittled Mr. Romney as inauthentic and vulnerable because of shifts away from more liberal positions he once held.
''Governor Romney's core problem was that as the governor of Massachusetts, he was moderate, which by the standards of Republican primary voters is a liberal. And he can't relax and be candid,'' Mr. Gingrich said on ''Face the Nation.'' ''He's been dancing on eggs trying to figure out how to find a version of Romney that will work.''
As the campaigns made their way to Florida on Sunday, they were looking at a reset landscape where Mr. Gingrich has momentum but Mr. Romney has important financial and organizational advantages.
Mr. Romney and the super PAC supporting him, Restore Our Future, have run millions of dollars in advertisements in Florida for weeks, while Mr. Gingrich and Winning Our Future have run none.
Rick Tyler, a senior adviser to Winning Our Future, said the group was seeking to spend $10 million in Florida; when asked if it had raised enough to meet that goal, Mr. Tyler said, ''Not yet.''
It was unclear whether Mr. Adelson would send millions of dollars more to the group.
After Mr. Gingrich came in fourth in Iowa, where he was pummeled by ads by the super PAC supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Adelson's $5 million donation to Winning Our Future was central to the revival of his candidacy in South Carolina, aides to him and Mr. Romney agreed.
But it was not certain what steps Mr. Gingrich was taking toward building his organization to meet the prowess of Mr. Romney's.
Mr. Romney's campaign aides were preparing to press Mr. Gingrich particularly hard on his consultant work for Freddie Mac, which came in the middle of the housing crisis that ravaged Florida's real estate market.
Speaking at the rally in Ormond Beach late Sunday, Mr. Romney referred to Mr. Gingrich's work for the mortgage giant, saying, ''Freddie Mac figures in very prominently to the fact that people in Florida have seen home values go down. It's time to turn that around.''
Mr. Romney's campaign also indicated that it would continue pressing Mr. Gingrich to share what it maintains are hundreds if not thousands of pages of details relating to the ethics committee investigation, when Mr. Gingrich was accused of inappropriately claiming tax-exempt status for a class he taught at Kennesaw State University in Georgia; the panel alleged that the course he ran had partisan, political aims of pushing his economic platform.
Speaking on CNN on Sunday, Mr. Gingrich said the $300,000 he paid after the investigation was actually a reimbursement of the costs. He said all 1,300 pages of the ethics report were online.
The attacks from the Romney camp seemed intended to stoke concern among party leaders about Mr. Gingrich's rise.
''He has not had a record of successful leadership,'' Mr. Romney said of Mr. Gingrich at the Florida rally.
That theme was pressed by other campaign surrogates, including Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah, who said in an interview, ''With all due respect, the speaker is just not disciplined.''
Henry Barbour, a member of the Republican National Committee from Mississippi, who had been supporting Gov. Rick Perry of Texas but disagreed with Mr. Perry's endorsement of Mr. Gingrich when he left the race, echoed Mr. Chaffetz's sentiment. ''Gingrich is great for cable news,'' he said, ''but not the Oval Office.''
For all the attacks against Mr. Gingrich, some of Mr. Romney's supporters were expressing nervousness about the way his campaign seemed to struggle over the last week, particularly over his tax records.
And for all of Mr. Gingrich's apparent structural disadvantages in Florida, he will land squarely on Monday in his most comfortable home turf, a television debate stage, this time in Tampa.
Most party leaders agree that the debates are where Mr. Gingrich revived his candidacy, though Liz Cheney, the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney and a strategist who is unaligned in the race, said more broadly, ''He demonstrated the kind of fighting spirit that people out there who are really worried about a second term for Barack Obama want to see.''
Given the volatility of the electorate, Ms. Cheney warned against ruling out former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who finished third in South Carolina. ''It would be a mistake to assume it is a two-man race,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney with his family at an election-night rally on Saturday in Columbia, S.C. His second-place primary finish has prompted a revision in his strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN SNYDER/THOMPSON REUTERS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CASINOS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (71%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SHELDON G ADELSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); TAMPA, FL, USA (74%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



996 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Dissent in the Jobs Council

 BODY:
At Disney World last week, President Obama announced new executive orders to speed up visas for foreign tourists to the United States. The measure, a priority for the travel industry, was one of several sensible recommendations made in the last year by Mr. Obama's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, a 27-member panel of corporate executives, academics, investors and labor leaders. The White House has carried out 17 others so far.
Increasingly, however, the council's recommendations have resembled not so much expert advice as a corporate wish list. In a report last October, the council's sound proposals for job-creating public works projects were overshadowed by its unfounded claim that antifraud provisions put in place in 2002 in response to Enron are an impediment to growth and hiring, and should be ended. 
Its latest report, issued last week, went so far in the direction of the Republican political agenda that it was endorsed by House Speaker John Boehner for its emphasis on lower tax rates and less regulation. The report drew the ire of the panel's two union members, Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Joseph Hansen, chairman of the Change to Win coalition. After the false premises and false fixes that have dominated the job creation debate, the dispute is healthy.
Mr. Trumka wrote a dissent in which he agreed that the United States has fallen behind other countries in investment in infrastructure, manufacturing, education, job skills and alternative energy. What he rightly objected to was the idea that less regulation, lower corporate tax rates and other demands on the business agenda are the key to restoring competitiveness and creating jobs. ''Without timely action by government on a large scale,'' he wrote, ''solutions will continue to elude us as a nation.''
For example, the report's recommendations for improving education focused in large part on ensuring that schools meet the needs of corporations. It is important to ensure that Americans have the right skills -- and opportunities to acquire new skills. The urgent and fundamental need, however, is to support, improve and sustain a strong public education system. That means more, not less, federal aid for states and localities to hire and retain teachers and for students to attend college, and for additional services to help poor and disadvantaged children to succeed academically, including meals and health care.
It is also crucially important to recognize that unemployment today is not primarily driven by a skills gap -- as the council's report would lead you to believe -- but by lack of jobs. If all of the job openings in America were filled tomorrow, nearly 10 million of the nation's 13.1 million unemployed workers would still be out of work. That shortage requires more federal aid to bolster demand, not a focus on a less pressing skills gap.
All of this would require more tax revenue, but the report discusses corporate tax reform that would not raise more money and would make it easier for American multinational corporations to avoid United States tax on foreign profits. The report claims the changes are needed to improve competitiveness and create jobs. Mr. Trumka pointed out that such changes could do the opposite, leaving the nation financially unable to meet its challenges, while disadvantaging companies without a foreign presence.
At a time when austerity is in vogue, it is also morally indefensible to not ask for more from corporations. This is just the kind of substantive debate that is needed to help ensure that corporate and partisan interests do not define the problems and dictate the solutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHANGE TO WIN (55%); AFL-CIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



997 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: After a Legal Setback, Commodity Traders' Complaint Is to Be Heard by a Lower Court

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Wall Street's legal challenge to a regulatory crackdown met a procedural obstacle last week, when a federal appeals court dismissed the case.
The lawsuit, directed at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's new restrictions on speculative trading, will now move to a lower-level court, delaying a decision on the legitimacy of the regulatory overhaul. 
At issue is a rule intended to curb speculative commodities trading, which some consumer advocates have blamed for inflating prices at the gas pump and the grocery store.
But Wall Street says the rule will crimp legitimate trading while doing little to subdue volatile energy costs.
In December, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association filed a lawsuit challenging the so-called position limits rule, which would cap the number of contracts a trader can hold on 28 commodities, including oil and wheat. The influential Wall Street trade groups filed the lawsuits in two federal courts - the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and a lower-level district court in Washington.
But the appeals court late Friday said it lacked authority to hear the case.
''There is no express Congressional authorization of direct appellate review applicable to the petition for review in this case,'' three appellate court judges said in a two-page order.
The court also rejected a bid by the trade groups to halt the enforcement of the position limits rule while the case winds through the courts. This month, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission also rebuffed a request to stay the rule.
While the appellate court ruling amounts to a symbolic setback for the trade groups, it will not necessarily affect the success of their legal challenge. The appellate court, often seen as friendly turf for corporate America and Wall Street when they skirmish with regulators, may hear the case after the lower court has ruled.
''The court's ruling is entirely procedural, and was not a decision about the merits of our challenge or of our request for a stay,'' Ira Hammerman, the securities association's general counsel, said in a statement.
But Bart Chilton, a commissioner, said of the case, ''The agency took a lot of time and care coming up with a sensible rule that I don't believe can be successfully challenged.''
The agency's position limits rule has emerged as one of the most contentious new policies stemming from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, passed in response to the financial crisis. The agency was split, 3-2, when it approved the rule in October.
In the suit, the two groups accused the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of failing to adequately assess the economic effects of the rule. They also argued that the agency ''grossly misinterpreted'' its authority under Dodd-Frank.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FUTURES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); APPEALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); JUDGES (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



998 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
STABILITY IN IRAQ THREATENED
AMID POWER STRUGGLE
Violence and political instability have escalated across Iraq since the withdrawal of American forces, as political and sectarian factions have fought for power and influence in a struggle that, within weeks, has threatened to undo the stability that allowed the pullout in the first place. Page A4
DRONE STRIKE IN SOMALIA 
A senior foreign commander fighting with Shabab Islamic militants was killed in an American drone strike a few miles south of the capital, according to Shabab officials. Page A4
FESTIVAL MARRED BY ABSENCE
At an old Mughal palace in Jaipur, India, temporarily converted to accommodate what organizers called the greatest literary show on earth, the headliners included Oprah Winfrey, Deepak Chopra and Tom Stoppard. But the absence of another star, Salman Rushdie, continued to overshadow the event. Page A6
MYANMAR FREES PRISONERS
Fewer than half of the 651 prisoners whom the Myanmar government announced it was releasing 10 days ago were political prisoners, according to two human rights groups that have compiled lists of those released. Petty criminals, whose sentences are being commuted, were among the rest. Page A7
CROATIA VOTES TO JOIN UNION
Croats voted by a two-to-one margin to join the European Union, signaling that the bloc retains its allure despite the debt crisis engulfing the euro currency that many of its members use. Page A9
VOTING ON GENOCIDE BILL
The French Senate is scheduled to vote on a law that would penalize those who deny the genocide of Armenians, taking another step along a path that has already damaged France's relations with Turkey. Page A9
National
A DEMOLITION UNCOVERS
VIEWS FROM AN EARLIER TIME
A year or two ago, demolition workers knocked down a building in Highland Park, Mich. In doing so, they uncovered two colorful, well-preserved advertisements that allude to a prosperity that is incongruous in today's Highland Park, a city so economically distressed that it recently removed most of its streetlights. This Land, Dan Barry. Page A10
A RISE IN SNOWY OWLS
From coast to coast across the northern United States, a striking number of snowy owls have been swooping onto shorelines and flying over fields this winter, delighting bird-watchers and stirring speculation about the cause of the spike. Page A11
CHALLENGES FOR ROMNEY
Mitt Romney will enter Florida wounded by his political collapse in South Carolina and facing a central challenge for his candidacy: How to regain the initiative after being forced for weeks into a defensive crouch. The Caucus. Page A13
New York
POSSIBLE SENATE CANDIDATE
WITH STRONG CREDENTIALS
Marc Cenedella has impressed Republican leaders with his Ivy League credentials as he works to drum up support for a Senate run. But there may be another side to Mr. Cenedella, the 41-year-old founder of TheLadders.com, a popular job-search Web site. Page A15
Obituaries
Edgar J. KAISER, JR. 69
In the 1970s he began methodically dismantling the business empire started by his father in 1914 while building his own. He was widely recalled as the former owner of the Denver Broncos who had engineered the trade that brought John Elway to the team in 1983.
Page B8
Business
GREEK TALKS HIT SNAG
OVER INTEREST RATES
Talks between Greece and its private sector creditors over restructuring its debt hit a snag over the weekend over how large an interest rate the new bonds would pay. Page B1
FILMING THE N.F.L.
N.F.L. Films documents the National Football League, makes money for the organization, and uses its signature style to turn each week's games into epic battles of historic proportions. They film the games for an array of future purposes such as documenting the history of the sport. Page B1
FED WORKS TO EASE DOUBT
The Federal Reserve, which does not like to surprise financial markets, has worked unusually hard to prepare the public for the changes to its communications policies that it plans to introduce. Page B3
Sports
LI NA MISSES HER CHANCE
TO UNSEAT RIVAL IN OPEN
Li Na failed to capitalize on the ankle injury that left Kim Clijsters wincing in pain in the seventh game of the opening set of the Australian Open when she held a 6-2 lead and four match points in the second-set tiebreaker. Page D10
RAVENS COME UP SHORT
The oft-criticized Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco did all he could to lead Baltimore over the Patriots in the A.F.C. Championship game, only to see his team fall, 23-20. Page D2
Arts
A SOUND AND AN AMBITION
TOO VAST TO CONTAIN
The 10th anniversary concert of the Afro Latin Jazz Orchestra at Symphony Space couldn't encompass all the ambitions of this remarkable New York institution, Jon Pareles writes. Its 18-piece lineup preserves the sound of the great old Latin dance bands, while welcoming new compositions that fling wild dissonances and abstruse rhythms into the mix. Page C1
CHANGE FOR JEWISH MUSEUM
Judah L. Magnes Museum -- whose collection of Judaica is the third largest in the country -- has reopened as the Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life, and is now part of the library at the University of California, Berkeley. Page C1
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A19

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A capsule summary on Monday for an obituary about a former owner of the Denver Broncos widely remembered for engineering the trade for quarterback John Elway carried an erroneous headline. As the obituary correctly noted, it was Edgar F. Kaiser Jr. -- not his father, Henry -- who died.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GENOCIDE (87%); COASTAL AREAS (86%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); MISDEMEANORS (67%); EURO (66%); BIRDS (66%); BIRDING (64%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (62%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); DEEPAK CHOPRA (54%); OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012



999 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Is Our Economy Healing?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
How goes the state of the union? Well, the state of the economy remains terrible. Three years after President Obama's inauguration and two and a half years since the official end of the recession, unemployment remains painfully high.
But there are reasons to think that we're finally on the (slow) road to better times. And we wouldn't be on that road if Mr. Obama had given in to Republican demands that he slash spending, or the Federal Reserve had given in to Republican demands that it tighten money. 
Why am I letting a bit of optimism break through the clouds? Recent economic data have been a bit better, but we've already had several false dawns on that front. More important, there's evidence that the two great problems at the root of our slump -- the housing bust and excessive private debt -- are finally easing.
On housing: as everyone now knows (but oh, the abuse heaped on anyone pointing it out while it was happening!), we had a monstrous housing bubble between 2000 and 2006. Home prices soared, and there was clearly a lot of overbuilding. When the bubble burst, construction -- which had been the economy's main driver during the alleged ''Bush boom'' -- plunged.
But the bubble began deflating almost six years ago; house prices are back to 2003 levels. And after a protracted slump in housing starts, America now looks seriously underprovided with houses, at least by historical standards.
So why aren't people going out and buying? Because the depressed state of the economy leaves many people who would normally be buying homes either unable to afford them or too worried about job prospects to take the risk.
But the economy is depressed, in large part, because of the housing bust, which immediately suggests the possibility of a virtuous circle: an improving economy leads to a surge in home purchases, which leads to more construction, which strengthens the economy further, and so on. And if you squint hard at recent data, it looks as if something like that may be starting: home sales are up, unemployment claims are down, and builders' confidence is rising.
Furthermore, the chances for a virtuous circle have been rising, because we've made significant progress on the debt front.
That's not what you hear in public debate, of course, where all the focus is on rising government debt. But anyone who has looked seriously at how we got into this slump knows that private debt, especially household debt, was the real culprit: it was the explosion of household debt during the Bush years that set the stage for the crisis. And the good news is that this private debt has declined in dollar terms, and declined substantially as a percentage of G.D.P., since the end of 2008.
There are, of course, still big risks -- above all, the risk that trouble in Europe could derail our own incipient recovery. And thereby hangs a tale -- a tale told by a recent report from the McKinsey Global Institute.
The report tracks progress on ''deleveraging,'' the process of bringing down excessive debt levels. It documents substantial progress in the United States, which it contrasts with failure to make progress in Europe. And while the report doesn't say this explicitly, it's pretty clear why Europe is doing worse than we are: it's because European policy makers have been afraid of the wrong things.
In particular, the European Central Bank has been worrying about inflation -- even raising interest rates during 2011, only to reverse course later in the year -- rather than worrying about how to sustain economic recovery. And fiscal austerity, which is supposed to limit the increase in government debt, has depressed the economy, making it impossible to achieve urgently needed reductions in private debt. The end result is that for all their moralizing about the evils of borrowing, the Europeans aren't making any progress against excessive debt -- whereas we are.
Back to the U.S. situation: my guarded optimism should not be taken as a statement that all is well. We have already suffered enormous, unnecessary damage because of an inadequate response to the slump. We have failed to provide significant mortgage relief, which could have moved us much more quickly to lower debt. And even if my hoped-for virtuous circle is getting under way, it will be years before we get to anything resembling full employment.
But things could have been worse; they would have been worse if we had followed the policies demanded by Mr. Obama's opponents. For as I said at the beginning, Republicans have been demanding that the Fed stop trying to bring down interest rates and that federal spending be slashed immediately -- which amounts to demanding that we emulate Europe's failure.
And if this year's election brings the wrong ideology to power, America's nascent recovery might well be snuffed out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012



1000 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: The Alzheimer's Reading Room

BYLINE: JANE GROSS


HIGHLIGHT: Bob DeMarco blogs about the day-to-day experiences of caring for his mother with Alzheimer's in the Alzheimer's Reading Room. 

 BODY:
In mid-January, Bob DeMarco, 61, left his 96-year-old mother's side for the first time in eight years to go to a conference about Alzheimer's disease just a few hours from the home they share in Delray Beach, Fla. He made elaborate plans for his time away, arranging for his mother, Dotty, who has advanced Alzheimer's, to stay with nearby friends; getting his first cellphone lest there be an emergency; and bit by bit, day after day, "reminding" her of his coming departure. 
In his popular blog the Alzheimer's Reading Room, Mr. DeMarco rhetorically asked his 7,600 subscribers and 50,000 unique monthly users: "Can Dotty make it for two days without me? Can I make it for two days without her?" The answer to both questions is clearly "yes,'' though my hunch is it was much harder for Mr. DeMarco, who called six times to check up on her; his mother showed flashes of anger at his return and then quickly settled back into the life that he has meticulously set up for them. 
That life is a construction by trial and error, as Mr. DeMarco figures out how to keep Dotty - who is well known to fans of the posts through YouTube videos, podcasts, slide shows and other personal tidbits Mr. DeMarco puts up on his site -- happy and healthy, then figures it out again as her condition inexorably worsens. 
"I never read any of the books," Mr. DeMarco said. "I just turned off the Bob DeMarco-businessman-decision-maker thing and enveloped myself in Alzheimer's World." He watched the "patterns" of what made Dotty calm and agreeable rather than agitated and negative. She was his "laboratory." "Something has to change, and that something was me,'' Mr. DeMarco said, and so he "rewired his brain" to match hers. 
Over these many years of 24/7 care, he has figured out that both Dotty's emotional state and her physical condition improve with lots of bright light, whether through their big kitchen window or outside; exercise as a member of a Silver Sneakers group at the local gym; daily monitoring of her vital signs to stay ahead of common ailments like urinary tract infections or pneumonia so they don't require hospitalization; monthly B-12 shots; and stimulation, stimulation, stimulation. 
Dotty's activities, under her son's ever-evolving regime, include noting the day and date from each morning's newspaper; discussing developments in the world even when those chats are more monologue than dialogue; crossword puzzles where she can still manage three-letter words; music and art; videos like "Shrek'' and '"Mamma Mia"; and excursions, whether to Walmart, where Dotty likes riding the motorized cart amid bright fluorescence and noisy crowds, or the New Year's Eve fireworks in downtown Delray Beach. Perhaps his most creative discovery, in Amazon's toy section, was a pair of plush parrots -- one that requires two AA batteries and a nine-volt, and a newer model that works on four AAs. Harvey came first, followed by Pete. Both talk nonstop, telling Dotty to drink her prune juice and singing along with her to "Shine On, Harvest Moon.''
This utter attention to his mother's needs was Mr. DeMarco's mission long before he ever thought about a blog, now benchmarked No. 1 in its category by Google, Mr. DeMarco said, and the subject of takeover bids by content companies eager, he said, to buy his "brand." He had helped his mother years before, together caring for his father through the last hard months of cancer, after the older couple had retired to Florida from South Philadelphia. Then Mr. DeMarco returned to wife and Wall Street job, as an institutional salesman of derivatives, futures, options and mortgages. 
A divorce and time as chief executive of a small software company in Reston, Va., followed, but Mr. DeMarco said he always knew he would drop it all to care for his mother when the time came. It did after one of her summer visits north. The year before she had been able to walk three miles; now she could barely shuffle a city block. Her cheery personality had become negative. "Everyone said she was just getting old," Mr. DeMarco said. He was sure the change was more momentous. "I dropped out of the world from one day to the next," he said of his sudden move to live with her in Florida. "But I'd made the decision many years in advance." 
(Mr. DeMarco has two siblings, considerably older: a 68-year-old sister in Northern New Jersey who has two children and two grandchildren, and a 71-year-old brother in the Philadelphia suburbs with one child. His sister spends a lot of time on the phone with both him and his mother and sends gifts like pretty pajamas, Mr. DeMarco said; his brother is involved "not much at all.'' He does not elaborate or complain.) 
The blog started more by accident than by design; odd jottings on things he had learned about Alzheimer's disease. Mr. DeMarco, who holds degrees in economics and risk management, is not a journalist. In Journalism 101, at Penn State, he got a C, he said. The blog has no editor or designer. It is plain-spoken and plain-looking, and has gradually gone from 300-odd posts in 2008 to 1,000 last year. Mr. DeMarco wrote two-thirds of the 3,200 posts; the others come from researchers, geriatric professionals and readers he has come to know. The posts cover topics like research, treatments and challenging behaviors like wandering or repetitive questioning, as well as matters of personal hygiene and other daily care, like showering and diet. Usually Dotty's day prompts the commentary, but not always. Now, Mr. DeMarco said, he spends five hours a day on the blog, and corresponds by e-mail with thousands of readers. 
Mr. DeMarco said he is so far unmoved by offers to buy him out. But he knows what he would do with the blog if he had the resources of a company with deep pockets: Find researchers, doctors, nurses and other professionals to post content on a regular schedule. Market products to the blog's readers -- say, the parrot toy -- with a markup. Hire an advertising agency to sell space on the pages. Improve the design and organization. 
As sole proprietor of his blog and sole caregiver for Dotty, Mr. DeMarco doesn't have what most of us would describe as a life. He says he has no friends, and doesn't go to the movies or out for a meal except with his mother. His situation also doesn't lend itself to romance. When one lady friend asked how long he intended to live this way, Mr. DeMarco said he responded, "at least one more day." He occasionally thinks about "someday when this is over'' but says he isn't yearning for anything more than or different from what he has. 
"I'm never alone, and I'm never lonely," he said. "And it goes way beyond my mother. It's people all over the world. Would I do it again? Yes. I have no moments of regret."

        
The Caregivers' Bookshelf: An Alzheimer's Classic
        
It's Mild Cognitive Impairment. Now What?
        
A Shoe for Wanderers
        
Coming Soon: A National Strategy on Alzheimer's
        
Was Pat Robertson Right?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (94%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PODCASTING (76%); MOBILE MEDIA (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (72%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) Alzheimer's; blogs; caregiving; Alzheimer's Disease; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Family Relationships

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

 
