

601 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1775 words

HEADLINE: As Tibet Erupted, China Wavered

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Zhang Jing, Huang Yuanxi and Chen Yang contributed research.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
In the chaotic hours after Lhasa erupted March 14, Tibetans rampaged through the city's old quarter, waving steel scabbards and burning or looting Chinese shops. Clothes, souvenirs and other tourist trinkets were dumped outside and set afire as thick gray smoke darkened the midday sky. Tibetan fury, uncorked, boiled over.
 Foreigners and Lhasa residents who witnessed the violence were stunned by what they saw, and by what they did not see: the police. Riot police officers fled after an initial skirmish and then were often nowhere to be found. Some Chinese shopkeepers begged for protection.
 ''The whole day I didn't see a single police officer or soldier,'' said an American woman who spent hours navigating the riot scene. ''The Tibetans were just running free.'' 
 Lhasa is now occupied by thousands of paramilitary police officers and troops of the People's Liberation Army. But witnesses say that for almost 24 hours, the paramilitary police seemed unexpectedly paralyzed or unprepared, despite days of rising tensions with Tibetan monks. 
 The absence of police officers emboldened the Tibetan crowds, which terrorized Chinese residents, toppled fire trucks and hurled stones into Chinese-owned shops. In turn, escalating violence touched off a sweeping crackdown and provided fodder for a propaganda-fueled nationalist backlash against Tibetans across the rest of China that is still under way.
 ''I really am surprised at the speed with which these things got out of control,'' said Murray Scot Tanner, a China analyst with a specialty in policing. ''This place, this time, should not have surprised them. This is one of the key cities in the country that they have tried to keep a lid on for two decades.''
 What happened? Analysts wonder if the authorities, possibly fearing the public relations ramifications of a confrontation before the Beijing Olympics in August, told the police to avoid engaging protesters without high-level approval.
 Timing also may have contributed to indecision; Tibet's hard-line Communist Party boss, Zhang Qingli, and other top officials were attending the National People's Congress in Beijing when the violence erupted. 
 The full explanation could take years to emerge from China's Communist Party hierarchy. But the Lhasa unrest, not entirely unlike the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests of 1989, may be remembered as much for poor police work -- faulty crowd control and political indecision followed by a large-scale response -- as for the underlying grievances of protesters.
 Lhasa now has created far more than a public relations problem for Beijing. It has unleashed widespread Tibetan resentment over Chinese rule. Antigovernment demonstrations have spread to Tibetan areas of western China. Military convoys and trucks of paramilitary police officers are streaming westward to quell the protests. 
 International leaders are alarmed at the violence and have called for restraint by China. But domestic opinion is inflamed with nationalist anger as state television is repeatedly showing images of Tibetans rioting in those early, unfettered hours.
 ''Our government should take a bloody suppression on these separatists!'' blared one posting among the legion of enraged postings on Chinese Internet chat rooms. ''We cannot hesitate or be too merciful, even at the cost of giving up the Olympics.''
 The police hesitation did not last long. The crackdown began within 24 hours, on March 15. Witnesses described hearing the thud of tear gas projectiles and the crackle of gunshots as paramilitary police officers took control of the riot area. By March 16, the paramilitary police were searching Tibetan neighborhoods and seizing suspects. One foreigner saw four Tibetan men beaten so savagely that the police sprinkled white powder on the ground to cover the blood.
 Lhasa's death toll remains in sharp dispute. The Chinese authorities say 22 people died, including a police officer killed by a mob and shopkeepers who burned to death in the violence.
 The authorities also claim security forces did not carry lethal weapons or fire a shot. But the Tibetan government in exile, in Dharamsala, India, said at least 99 Tibetans have died in Lhasa during the crackdown. Foreign journalists are now forbidden to enter Tibet. But interviews with more than 20 witnesses show Lhasa was boiling with Tibetan resentment even as authorities believed they had the situation under control. Protests broke out at three monasteries beginning March 10, the anniversary of the failed Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule in 1959, which forced the Dalai Lama to flee to India.
 The police arrested more than 60 monks and confined the rest in their monasteries. Tibetans say the police also beat monks during peaceful demonstrations. 
 James Miles, a Beijing-based reporter for The Economist magazine, had obtained approval from authorities for a reporting trip to Lhasa before the demonstrations. When the protests started, Mr. Miles wondered if he would be notified that his trip had been canceled. But no call came. He arrived March 12, and on March 13 officials took him to dinner, signaling their confidence by making no attempt to hide the recent demonstrations.
 ''I was assured that the situation in Lhasa was stable,'' Mr. Miles recalled.
 But the next day, March 14, would prove otherwise. At Ramoche Temple, monks left the monastery about midday to protest and were immediately met by police officers. Unlike the other monasteries, Ramoche is in the heart of Lhasa's old Tibetan quarter, so the confrontation attracted a large crowd.
 Unconfirmed reports about the earlier protests had been swirling among Tibetans for days, according to several people, including that monks and Buddhist nuns had been killed. Many Tibetans were angry when they saw the police clash with the Ramoche monks. Quickly, the crowd attacked the police.
 Witnesses say police reinforcements who arrived with shields and riot gear were overwhelmed. ''Almost immediately they were rushed by a massive group of Tibetans,'' one witness said. Police officers fled, and a mob of Tibetans poured out of the old quarter onto Beijing Road, a large commercial street. A riot had begun.
 Angry Tibetans attacked a branch of the Bank of China and burned it to a blackened husk. Photos and video images show Tibetans smashing Chinese shops with stones and setting them on fire. Witnesses described Tibetans attacking Chinese on bicycles and throwing rocks at taxis driven by Chinese. Later, crowds also burned shops owned by Muslims.
 ''This wasn't organized, but it was very clear that they wanted the Chinese out,'' said the American woman who witnessed the riots and asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals. She said Tibetan grievances exploded in anger. Crowds tied ceremonial silk scarves across the threshold of Tibetan shops to indicate they should not be damaged.
 Mr. Miles, the journalist, found himself the only Western reporter on the scene. He spent the next several hours carefully walking around the old Tibetan quarter as rioters burned buildings and overturned cars. ''I was looking around expecting an immediate, rapid response,'' he said. ''But nothing happened. I kept asking people, 'Where are the police?' ''
 Protests are common in China and clashes can occur between demonstrators and police officers. Beginning in the early 1980s China created a paramilitary force, known as the People's Armed Police, to deal with domestic unrest and other crises. Mr. Tanner, the specialist in Chinese policing, said the People's Armed Police had developed tactics over the years to defuse protests without resorting to violent crackdowns. But riots of this scale are rare, and if violence erupts, policy dictates a firm response, Mr. Tanner said. 
 ''There is no suggestion that they are supposed to sit back and let a riot burn itself out,'' he said.
 Tibetans also say the security forces were unusually passive at the beginning. One monk reached by telephone said other monks noticed that several officers were more interested in shooting video of the violence than stopping it. ''They were just watching,'' the monk said. ''They tried to make some videos and use their cameras to take some photos.''
 Ultimately, the man responsible for public order in Lhasa is Mr. Zhang, Tibet's party chief. Mr. Zhang is a protege of President Hu Jintao, whose own political career took flight after he crushed the last major rebellion in Tibet in 1989. 
 According to one biographer, Mr. Hu actually made himself unavailable during the 1989 riots when the paramilitary police needed guidance on whether to crack down. The police did so and Mr. Hu got credit for keeping order, but he also assured himself deniability if the crackdown had failed, the biographer wrote.
 Mr. Zhang also has an excuse; he was at the National People's Congress in Beijing. When the violence started, Mr. Zhang had just completed a two-hour online discussion about China's Supreme Court, according to a government Web site. It is unclear when Mr. Zhang was told of the violence, or if he made the final decision on how to respond.
 But that decision became clear on March 15, the day after the riots. During the riots, the police were armed with shields and batons, witnesses said. But overnight, the People's Armed Police had encircled the riot areas. Armed vehicles also were in position. By afternoon, witnesses saw small teams of paramilitary officers with high-powered weapons moving into the old quarter.
 Mr. Zhang would later declare ''a bitter struggle of blood and fire against the Dalai clique, a struggle of life and death.''
 The Chinese authorities have also confirmed that army troops had arrived in Lhasa by March 15, saying their role was limited to traffic control and securing military property. But many people question if some of those troops were involved in the crackdown. Several armored vehicles had their license plates removed or covered in white paper. 
 Mr. Miles noticed that many of the People's Armed Police officers actually appeared to be wearing irregular uniforms. One military analyst who studied photographs of the scene concluded that some armored vehicles belonged to an elite military unit. Witnesses reported hearing the sounds of gunshots throughout that Saturday afternoon. 
 The crackdown was only one part of the new strategy. The Chinese news media initially had not been allowed to cover the Lhasa violence. But by March 15,, that had changed. There, broadcast on state television, was video of Tibetans raging through Lhasa. No images were shown of the crackdown the next day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Lhasa during the recent riots, a tourist who requested anonymity took this photo of Chinese goods being burned. (pg.A1)
A woman recently surveyed the damage in Lhasa from the rioting in that Tibetan city. The photos on this page were taken by a tourist who requested anonymity.
 A fire truck on a street in Lhasa during the recent unrest. Firefighters put out fires while Chinese soldiers kept guard. (pg.A10) MAP: Lhasa, Tibet 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); RIOTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); WITNESSES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



602 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Where Wall Street's Caviar Set Still Thrives

BYLINE: By CATE DOTY

 BODY:
Fifteen thousand jobs lost in the financial sector since the fall. Recession. Panic on Wall Street. Crisis in the housing market. Bear Stearns sold at $2 a share. 
 So how does the world look to Trader Monthly, a glossy magazine for people who live and breathe the markets?
 ''Trades of the Year,'' announced the proud cover of the February/March issue, teasing a feature about Wall Street pinup boys who had wisely shorted the subprime sector or bet correctly on commodities. The same issue offered a drool-worthy chart about 2007 bonuses and a report on ''the finest'' in sedans, steakhouses, jets and gold watches. 
 ''The sizzling steak and the celebratory trader,'' the magazine observed in its table of contents. ''You can't have one without the other.''
 To most people, there seems to be little to celebrate in either the financial markets or magazine publishing. But Doubledown Media, which publishes Trader Monthly and other magazines for the wealthy, says that its business is largely immune to the problems, as are its readers and advertisers. 
 ''We're seeing very rapid growth, and a lot of it is driven by marketing partners who are extremely keen to reach a very targeted audience,'' said Randall Lane, Doubledown's president. ''A lot of media traditionally have these large shotguns, and we've got these high-powered rifles.''
 The company, founded in 2004 and based in Manhattan, is hiring in anticipation of big growth in advertising revenue, and publishing a new magazine next month -- The Players Club, which aims to help professional athletes manage their money. 
 Although Trader Monthly and a sister publication, Dealmaker, are sold on newsstands for $10 each, free subscriptions are available only to people who can prove that they work in the financial industry, and Mr. Lane says that thousands are turned away; subscriptions for others are $100 a year.
 Trader Monthly readers have an average income of $653,000, according to Doubledown, making them prime targets for advertisers like Hermes, Cessna and Johnnie Walker. 
 Mr. Lane and Doubledown's founder, Magnus Greaves, say that Doubledown is recession-proof because of its rarefied audience: men whose average net worth is between $3 and $5 million and who want to read about other men like themselves. 
 ''These are very smart people,'' said Mr. Greaves, who created Doubledown with money from selling Macfutures, an electronic trading company he co-founded in London. ''We have to give them something meaningful.''
 Other magazines in the Doubledown empire are Corporate Leader, Cigar Report and Private Air, which asks potential subscribers to provide details about their aircraft: Twin engine? Turbo? Are you a fractional owner?
 Doubledown had revenue of more than $10 million in 2007 and anticipates at least twice as much in 2008. The company's advertising pages increased by 68 percent from 2006 to 2007, to 1,089 from 648. Doubledown's bigger and more established competitor, The Robb Report, also had an increase in ad pages in 2007, to 1,763 from 1,752 in 2006, according to TNS Media Intelligence.
 ''As long as we're always reaching the top of the pyramid, then we'll always be fine,'' Mr. Lane said. ''However the economy is doing, we always know we'll be reaching those who are doing the best.''
 Doubledown's advertisers are doing fine themselves. ''They're all proven luxury categories,'' Mr. Lane said. ''They're making lots of money.''
 Advertising in the magazine industry has seen its ups and downs -- magazine ad pages stayed flat in the fourth quarter of 2007, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, and analysts last year projected weak growth in ad revenue. But many luxury brands are increasing their ad spending and page counts. 
 Cartier, the jeweler and watchmaker, increased its magazine ad spending by 80.6 percent from 2006 to 2007, and other brands that cater to the wealthy -- Viking Yachts, Moet & Chandon, Porsche -- have had similar increases, according to TNS.
 The luxury market has survived longer than the mass retail market, said Reed Phillips, a media investment banker. Doubledown and its competitors, he said, are being read by ''people who travel to airports on helicopters and use private planes.'' 
 Trader Monthly and similar publications do not need to worry ''until their readers give up their private planes,'' Mr. Phillips said.
 ''Some of the magazines that are being impacted now by the downturn are the magazines that are focused on a broad audience with large circulations,'' he said. ''Doubledown is like a laser shot at the market: it's highly focused on traders and deal makers. Therefore their advertisers are also very focused on high-income audiences.''
 ''Wealth and luxury mean different things to different people,'' said David Arnold, a senior vice president and group publisher at CurtCo Media, which publishes The Robb Report. ''If you have assets of 30, 50, 100 million dollars, even a 5 percent loss doesn't really impact their lifestyle.''
 Mr. Arnold said The Robb Report has restrictions on what brands it will advertise in the magazine, being careful to include such names as Hermes, which reported a 9.9 percent increase in sales for the fourth quarter last year. ''That's where we fish,'' he said.
 Doubledown's editorial staff of 25 operates out of a growing office in Midtown Manhattan, where editors share duties among magazines. As is the case at many magazines, many of the articles come from a well-culled stable of freelance writers. 
 In addition to the standard fare of business magazines -- personality profiles, features about market strategy -- the Doubledown magazines have the lighter attributes of a lad magazine, like photo spreads with fast cars and Brioni suits. Trader Monthly also publishes a yearly list of the top 100 traders in its April/May issue that is read and debated on trading floors across the country.
 ''I think people look up to certain traders,'' said Rich Blake, a senior editor at Trader Monthly. ''Where a lot of people in the press tend to vilify traders, I think we have this sense of community.'' 
 The magazines employ a cadre of specialists: Johnny Chan, a well-known poker player whose column in Trader Monthly discusses poker and trading, and Ralph DiGennaro, a former fashion news editor at GQ magazine who writes about watches for Doubledown. 
 Part of the Doubledown appeal is the feeling for readers of being among select few admitted behind the velvet rope. The company holds events centered on its readers' and advertisers' interests -- a monthly dinner and wine tasting, one featuring Jeffrey Chodorow of the Kobe Club, or a ''Napa Valley Fly-In'' for readers of Private Air. 
 Mr. Lane said the events were held to maintain Doubledown's image of exclusivity, to help its readers network and for Doubledown to learn more about their interests.
 ''It's not really Champagne flowing from fountains,'' Mr. Lane said. ''They don't celebrate decadence. They celebrate our community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Magnus Greaves, left, founder of Doubledown Media, and Randall Lane, president, capitalize on the wealth of the successful in their magazines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Revelers applauded at Doubledown Media's Wall Street Charity Boxing Championships in New York last November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIMMY NICOL) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



603 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: With Economy Tied to Wall St., New York Braces for Job Cuts

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Reporting was contributed by Annie Correal, Geraldine Fabrikant, Christine Haughney and Sharon Otterman.

 BODY:
New York is accustomed to job losses on Wall Street. They come with just about every economic slump, and their impact is felt throughout the city.
 But now, as the city braces for a big contraction in the financial sector as a result of the credit crisis and the collapse of Bear Stearns, the fallout could be worse than in the past.
 The New York economy is more dependent than ever on high Wall Street incomes, which have jumped by more than half since 2001, to an average of $387,000, according to the city comptroller's office.
 Last year, the finance industry was responsible for nearly a third of all wages earned in the city, the highest in modern times. And each Wall Street job supports three workers in other sectors. 
 A great many of the 14,000 employees of Bear Stearns are expected to lose their jobs because of the firm's cash shortage and its pending acquisition by JPMorgan Chase. As the credit crisis unfolds and other firms discover the depths of their losses related to bad loans, few expect the layoffs to stop there.
 ''Up to this point in New York City, the material result of the credit crunch hasn't been felt as quickly as people were expecting,'' said Marcia Van Wagner, deputy comptroller for the budget of New York City. ''It took a while for the other shoe to drop.''
 Indeed, even though economists say this slowdown started in the financial sector, New York has felt little of its pain. For example, real estate prices have largely held steady in the metropolitan area even as they have plummeted in other regions.
 Now there are signs of nervousness, and not just among bankers and traders. Some prospective buyers in the pricey condominium market have put their plans on hold. Companies like SeamlessWeb, which delivers food to financial firms, are reconsidering plans to hire more staff. A newsstand operator across from the New York Stock Exchange greeted his customers last week by saying, ''It will be O.K.''
 Analysts are predicting wider cuts across the industry, even among workers who had nothing to do with mortgages. A UBS analyst, Glenn Schorr, said the major banks had already cut 5 to 10 percent of their work forces, and he said he expected them to make cuts on a similar scale again in the next few months.
 ''It's fair to, unfortunately, expect another wave of cuts as they batten down the hatches,'' said Mr. Schorr, who covers several major banks.
 Some New York-area residents are becoming more cautious with their spending decisions.
 Last month, Shai Shustik, a broker with Manhattan Residential, was helping a 27-year-old client find a $700,000 one-bedroom apartment on the East Side of Manhattan. But then the client suddenly put her search on hold. Her father, a banker, said he had lost too much money in the stock market to buy such an apartment for her.
 Until two weeks ago, Mr. Shustik was also working with a Credit Suisse banker who wanted to spend up to $1.6 million for a one-bedroom apartment in the West Village or TriBeCa neighborhoods of Manhattan. The banker abruptly stopped his apartment search because he was too concerned about the stock market and his future bonus potential. 
 Last Tuesday, a woman picking at her salad in Grand Central Terminal said her husband, who works at a competitor of Bear Stearns, feared the trouble would spread. 
 ''He's worried,'' said the woman, Emilie Bosak, a stay-at-home mother. ''Most people in finance are worried.''
 That worry has been building since last summer, just after two hedge funds within Bear Stearns collapsed and the mortgage markets were beginning to freeze. Employment at securities firms in New York had rebounded since the 2001 recession and was nearing its all-time peak of 200,000 from before that downturn, according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a trade group.
 Since August, the financial industry has gradually shed at least 20,000 jobs, mostly among those selling loans, those bundling loans into complex securities and those placing trading bets on the likelihood that borrowers would pay.
 Now the pace of job losses is increasing. Significant cuts at Bear Stearns are almost certain. Citigroup is in the process of cutting 10 percent of the work force in its investment bank, or 6,000 people. Lehman Brothers announced 1,400 layoffs two weeks ago.
 Goldman Sachs said in January that it would reduce its global work force by 5 percent. On Friday, The New York Post reported that the cuts would rise to 20 percent, which would bring the total cut to 6,400 jobs. A spokeswoman for Goldman had no comment on the report.
 ''There will be more cutbacks because basically the business is not there,'' said Richard X. Bove, a managing director at Punk, Ziegel & Company, an investment firm.
 The last time Wall Street had a similar contraction was after the technology bubble burst seven years ago. At that time, financial firms cut 60,000 jobs in the New York City area, or 1 in every 10 finance positions, according to Moody'sEconomy.com.
 But those cuts were rapid, and this downturn strikes some people as more similar to the slow bleeding that occurred on Wall Street from 1987 to 1993, when 100,000 people in the New York area -- 15 percent of finance workers -- lost their jobs, according to Economy.com.
 So far, Economy.com is predicting about 25,000 job losses in the New York area, but that number may be revised as the full impact of Wall Street's credit troubles becomes clear, said Marisa Di Natale, a senior economist at Economy.com.
 The firm's chief economist, Mark Zandi, said of the current round of cuts: ''It won't be the same kind of job loss. Back in '01 or '91, it was a much larger share of the back-office jobs. But in terms of compensation, the impact could be just as significant. One hedge fund job lost today is worth 10 back-office jobs in the last downturn.''
 In New York and surrounding counties, for example, financial workers accounted for 29 percent of all money earned and only 11 percent of jobs in 2006. That is up significantly from 1990, when the finance industry accounted for 19 percent of wages and 12 percent of jobs, according to an analysis by Economy.com.
 That increase is related to an unprecedented rise in bonuses over the last four years and also to the elimination of some lower-paying jobs because of outsourcing and computer improvements.
 Some New Yorkers said their neighbors seemed to be in denial. 
 ''I was at a benefit last week, and a major well-known chief executive told me that 'Everything will be just fine. People will start buying houses again,' '' said David Patrick Columbia, who runs the New York Social Diary, a Web site that chronicles Manhattan social life. ''Another one blamed everything on the media. He went on about how the media is creating a recession.''
 To be sure, it is not clear how prolonged the downturn in the economy will be or where its effects will be felt the most. Historically, most recessions have hit the manufacturing sector, for example, much harder than financial institutions. This downturn is different, many economists say, because it was set off by troubles in the financial sector.
 That distinction is evident among executive recruiters in the securities industry, some of whom say they received a barrage of resumes last week after the sale of Bear Stearns was announced. 
 ''Bear was a shock to the market. No one could have fathomed a year ago that something like this would happen so fast,'' said Michael Karp, chief executive of Options Group, a recruiter in New York. ''So employees across theboard are nervous.''
 Adam Zoia, managing partner at Glocap, another New York recruiter, said employers using his firm listed the same number of job openings in the first two months of this year as in the period a year earlier. But, he said, they filled 20 to 30 percent fewer of those positions because of uncertainty about the economy.
 Last week, after the Bear Stearns announcement, business school and college students called their institutions from spring break to ask if their finance jobs would be canceled. It remains unclear what will happen with many internships and job offers.
 Anxiety is also being felt among the businesses that cater to Wall Street and its high-income workers.
 Jason Finger, president of the food delivery company SeamlessWeb, said he saw a clear drop in business this past week. Each order was just a bit smaller. 
 ''It's only on the margin,'' Mr. Finger said. ''The financial markets have been very unsettling for us.''
 Harry's Cafe, a cavernous restaurant in the financial district, saw a 15 to 20 percent drop in business over the last two weeks, mostly at lunchtime. The nearby Delmonico's steakhouse also was slow during lunch. The restaurants' managers say people living in the new condominiums downtown have added some stability at dinnertime.
 At Bistro Laurent Tourondel, or BLT, a sleek steakhouse on 57th Street and Park Avenue, Yann Le Morzellec, the assistant general manager, said: ''A lot of the clients have the black Amex card, which shows to us they are pretty stable. I think a lot of them might be immune to what's going on.''
 Eric Bedoucha, the chef at Financier Patisserie, a downtown bakery, tracks the financial market by the types of cakes his customers buy. 
 ''They buy a 'Good luck!' cake for when someone is fired and 'Welcome to our team!' when someone is hired,'' Mr. Bedoucha said. 
 He saw lots of job-loss cakes in November but has not seen many since then. Still, the bakery opened in 2002, after the last bubble had burst, so he does not know whether people will buy any type of cake if there are large-scale layoffs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job cuts in the financial sector -- eliminating highly paid traders and bankers -- would send waves through the economy
 each Wall Street worker supports three jobs in other sectors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); NEWSSTANDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



604 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan in Negotiations To Raise Bear Stearns Bid

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase was in talks on Sunday night for a deal that would quintuple its offer for Bear Stearns, the beleaguered investment bank, in an effort to pacify angry Bear shareholders, according to people involved in the negotiations. 
 The sweetened offer is intended to win over stockholders who vowed to fight the original fire-sale deal, struck only a week ago at the behest of the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department.
 Under the terms being discussed, JPMorgan would pay $10 a share in stock for Bear, up from its initial offer of $2 a share -- a figure that represented a mere one-fifteenth of Bear's going market price.
 The Fed, which must approve any new deal, was balking at the new offer price on Sunday night after several days of frantic, secret negotiations, these people said. As a result, it was still possible the renegotiated deal might be postponed or collapse entirely, said these people, who were granted anonymity because of their confidentiality agreements. 
 If the Fed were to reject the new proposal, it could set off a furor among shareholders of both firms that the government was preventing them from making a fair deal.
 In an unusual move, Bear's board was seeking to authorize the sale of 39.5 percent of the firm to JPMorgan in an effort to move closer to majority shareholder approval. Under state law in Delaware, where the companies are incorporated, a company can sell up to 40 percent without shareholder approval.
 The renegotiation, which would set a sale price of more than $1 billion, comes after a tumultuous week on Wall Street and in Washington because of the near collapse of Bear and the hastily devised deal to save it.
 While the initial agreement appeared to have defused the financial crisis of confidence that undid Bear, the initial terms of the deal -- and the government's controversial role in reaching them -- drew criticism from those who say the takeover amounts to a government bailout of Bear, a firm at the center of the mortgage meltdown. 
 A new deal could raise even more questions about the Fed's involvement in the negotiations. As part of the original deal, the Fed guaranteed to take on $30 billion of Bear's most toxic assets. The central bank also directed JPMorgan to pay no more than $2 a share for Bear to assure that it would not appear that the Bear shareholders were being rescued, according to people involved in the negotiations.
 In television interviews last week, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who has been closely involved in the negotiations, sought to portray the agreement not as a rescue effort but as a way to provide stability for the entire financial markets. 
 ''Let me say that the Bear Stearns situation has been very painful for the Bear Stearns shareholders,'' Mr. Paulson said on Monday on the NBC ''Today'' show, referring to the $2 a share price. ''So I don't think that they think that they've been bailed out here.''
 If the price is increased, however, some critics could have more ammunition to complain that taxpayers are helping to bail out a Wall Street firm that should be responsible for its own risky behavior. That is one reason the Fed was hesitant on Sunday night to approve the transaction at $10 a share, people briefed on the talks said.
 A spokeswoman for JPMorgan declined to comment on Sunday night. A representative of Bear Stearns could not be reached. 
 A spokesman for the Federal Reserve would not comment on the central bank's involvement in the negotiations and denied that it had directed the original sale price.
 Inside Bear, the vitriol over that bargain-basement price was palpable last week. Bear employees own more than a third of Bear's stock, and many longtime employees faced the prospect of losing all their savings. On Monday, some were seen crying in the hallways of the firm's Midtown Manhattan headquarters.
 One employee started a Web site to rally opposition to the deal. Some employees said they talked back to their new supervisors from JPMorgan, which commandeered desks and conference rooms after being given operational control of the firm last week.
 The new price would still be a small fraction of what Bear Stearns was worth before its recent meltdown. Its shares were trading at about $67 two weeks ago and as high as $170 a year ago.
 Even after JPMorgan announced that it would acquire Bear for $2 a share, investors bid up the stock to close at $5.96 on Friday in anticipation that a better deal would be reached.
 Some of Bear's largest shareholders have even considered voting down the deal to send the firm into bankruptcy protection, where they speculate they might get more than $2 a share from creditors.
 The British billionaire financier Joe Lewis, the firm's largest shareholder, who had invested $1.26 billion in Bear over the last year at an average price of about $104, said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that he would seek to block the deal by taking ''whatever action'' necessary and would ''encourage'' the firm and ''third parties to consider other strategic transactions.''
 He and James E. Cayne, Bear's chairman, were talking informally to friends and others about finding investors to mount a rival bid.
 If Bear's board sells JPMorgan 39.5 percent of the firm, as it was attempting to do on Sunday night, that would leave JPMorgan needing only slightly more than 10.5 percent of shareholder support to complete the transaction. And the individuals on Bear's board, who were supportive of the deal on Sunday night, own a total of about 5 percent of outstanding shares.
 Some shareholders could seek to file lawsuits to block the deal, claiming that the unusual board vote was an act of coercion.
 JPMorgan was also in negotiations with the Fed on Sunday to assume the first $1 billion in losses on Bear assets before the Fed's $30 billion cushion kicks in. However, the Fed may now be seeking to raise that number.
 A major aim of a new agreement would be to provide assurances to investors who trade with Bear that it will continue to be open for business. Even with JPMorgan's original agreement in place last week, some of Bear's largest customers would not trade with it, still nervous that the deal might unravel.
 JPMorgan and Bear were prompted to renegotiate after shareholders began threatening to block the deal and it emerged that several ''mistakes'' were included in the original, hastily written contract, according to people involved in the talks.
 One sentence was ''inadvertently included,'' according to a person briefed on the talks, which requires JPMorgan to guarantee Bear's trades even if shareholders voted down the deal. That provision could allow Bear's shareholders to seek a higher bid while still forcing JPMorgan to honor its guarantee, these people said.
 When the error was discovered, James Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, who was described by one participant as ''apoplectic,'' began calling his lawyers at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz to seek a way to have the sentence modified, these people said. Finger pointing over the mistakes in the contracts began as bankers blamed the lawyers and vice versa.
 As it began to look more possible late last week that the deal might be struck down, JPMorgan approached Bear in earnest on Friday about renegotiating the sale price to guarantee its completion and brought the Federal Reserve into the talks as well, people involved in the negotiations said.
 Mr. Dimon became increasingly desperate in recent days. He offered certain employees cash and stock incentives to stay on and made calls to his rival chief executives on Wall Street -- John J. Mack at Morgan Stanley and John A. Thain at Merrill Lynch, among them -- pleading with them not to recruit Bear employees during the transition.
 Mr. Dimon had became convinced that the deal was in jeopardy after spending much of last week taking angry calls from Bear's largest shareholders, including Mr. Lewis, these people said. Moreover, Mr. Dimon, who had indignantly told associates that he would ''send Bear back into bankruptcy'' if the deal was struck down, was persuaded by his advisers that he had less leverage than he thought, according to people briefed on the conversation. Such vindictive behavior, they told him, would turn into a legal and public relations nightmare.
 Last week, in an impassioned speech to Bear's employees seeking their support, Mr. Dimon said: ''No one on Wall Street could have anticipated this. I feel terrible sometimes when people think we took advantage. I don't think we could possibly know what you all are feeling, but I hope that you give JPMorgan a chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of Bear Stearns in Midtown Manhattan. JPMorgan Chase initially offered $2 a share for Bear, angering the beleaguered firm's stockholders who said the offer was too low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



605 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Thursday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.57 percent and the rate on the six-month issue was 1.18 percent. The rate on the four-week issue was 0.12 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Hamilton County, Tenn., $97 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Oklahoma City, $60.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Greenfield Middle School Building, Ind., $54.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 City of Industry, Calif. $74.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Newport News, Va., $58.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, $59.6 million of debt securities. JPMorgan Securities.
 Cherokee County, Ga., $50 Million of water and sewer revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, $337.1 million of joint revenue bonds. Bear Stearns.
 Citizens Gas, Indianapolis, $50 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Citizens Gas, Indianapolis, $100 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Doylestown Hospital, Pa., $136.5 million of debt securities. PNC Capital Markets.
 Energy Northwest, Wash., $697.2 million of revenue refunding bonds. Goldman Sachs. 
 Greater Orlando Aviation Authority, $243.4 million of refunding bonds. UBS Securities.
 Hackensack Healthcare Facilities, N.J., $241.3 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Illinois Finance Authority, $171.7 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Jacksonville Health Facilities, Fla., $121 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.
 Jacksonville Port Authority, Fla., $90 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Kent Hospital Finance Authority, Mich., $227 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 La Porte Independent School District, Tex., $65 million of schoolhouse series debt securities. First Southwest Company.
 Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority, $89.5 million of (airport) refunding revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Mesa Unified School District No. 44, Maricopa County, Ariz., $50 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 New Mexico Finance Authority, $160.6 million of revenue bonds. UBS Securities.
 South Dakota Housing Development Authority, $66 million of homeownership mortgage bonds debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 State Road and Tollway Authority, Ga., $600 million of debt securities. JPMorgan Securities.
 Utah Transit Authority, $700 million of tax revenue bonds. UBS Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); CIVIL AVIATION (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FIRST SOUTHWEST CO (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); GREATER ORLANDO AVIATION AUTHORITY INC (54%); ENERGY NORTHWEST (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



606 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Stop Those Checks

BYLINE: By BRUCE BARTLETT. 
Bruce Bartlett, the author of ''Impostor: How , George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy,'' was an official under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.

DATELINE: Great Falls, Va. 

 BODY:
 WITH unusual speed and cooperation last month, George W. Bush and Democrats in Congress agreed to a tax rebate set to be paid out beginning in May. Families will get checks for $300 to $1200 or more, and it is assumed that they will all rush out to spend this money immediately, giving retailers a boost that will raise economic growth.
 Despite the bipartisan support for the rebate, few economists have supported the idea. They note that we have tried rebates in the past -- most recently in 2001 -- and there is no evidence that they have meaningfully stimulated either consumption or growth. By and large, people saved the money they received or paid bills (which is the same thing); very few used their rebates to increase spending. 
 The true reason why the current rebate has been so popular in Washington is that giving away free money in an election year is good for politicians of both parties. Superficially, it looks as if Washington is responding to a real problem with decisive action. After all, if there is a recession the Democrats who control Congress will be held just as accountable as the Republicans who control the executive branch.
 But in the almost six weeks since the rebate legislation was signed into law, the economic situation has changed. The meltdown in financial markets is much more serious than it looked in February. At its root are bad mortgages and other debts that are like toxic waste spreading throughout the financial system.
 The solution, therefore, is not to drop $100 bills from helicopters -- which is essentially what the rebate would do. Rather, what we need is a mortgage Superfund that can clean up the toxic waste. If we can cleanse the financial system of at least some of the bad debts, it will do far more to restore the economy to health than anything that could be accomplished by the rebate -- even if the rebate were to work as it is supposed to.
 We all know that the government is eventually going to get stuck with a lot of the bad debts, just as it did in the early 1990s when a previous housing bubble burst and bankrupt savings and loans had to be rescued. That bailout cost taxpayers $160 billion. The next one will probably cost more because the problem is bigger and the economy is larger.
 At the same time, there are increasing demands for targeted relief for homeowners facing foreclosure. It looks to many people as if Washington cares more about fat-cat bankers than working families in hard times. At some point, Congress is going to respond with additional aid for people caught in the mortgage mess, and this relief will come on top of the $117 billion cost of the rebate.
 We need to stop and ask whether we can afford to spend $117 billion that the Treasury Department does not have on a program of dubious effectiveness. It simply makes no sense to send out checks to people who have no need for it as some kind of election-year bribe to vote for incumbents of both parties. That money would go a long way toward cleaning up the mortgages that are poisoning the financial sector. 
 Congress should immediately repeal the rebate and redirect the money that has been budgeted into a package of measures that would help the housing sector and those people who actually need assistance. The Treasury might use some of the money, for example, to enable Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored housing agencies, to buy up some of the bad mortgages, get them off bank balance sheets and help homeowners refinance them.
 My gut tells me that the vast majority of Americans would happily give up their rebate if they knew that the money would be used instead to help families in need and start the process of cleaning up the bad debts in the housing sector. Everyone knows that we will have to spend the money eventually and that the sooner the financial sector goes through detox the better it will be for everyone.
 This is a proposal that both Republicans and Democrats should embrace. It involves no increase in the deficit. We would simply redirect already appropriated money into other channels that are much more likely to help the economy.
 The checks haven't gone out yet so no one has to give anything back. Congress could pass a repeal bill in a day if it wanted to. At a minimum, hearings should be held on this proposal in light of the country's deteriorating financial situation.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); RECESSION (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); SUPERFUND (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); BANK FAILURES (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (67%); HOME PRICES (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



607 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Newspapers' New Owners Turn Grim

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Critics of newspapers say that part of the problem is that the industry has lost its ability to surprise. Tell that to the guys who have just bought in. 
 ''The news business is something worse than horrible. If that's the future, we don't have much of a future,'' Sam Zell, who bought the Tribune Company last year, said recently in The Baltimore Sun. 
 ''I'm an optimist, but it is very hard to be positive about what's going on,'' said Brian P. Tierney, who bought The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News in 2006. 
 ''The near term and medium term at the paper is more negative than what we expected,'' said OhSang Kwon of Avista Capital Partners, which bought The Minneapolis Star-Tribune in late 2006. 
 These are all smart businesspeople, with significant success in other endeavors, who took a hard look at the wave-tossed publishing sector and appointed themselves as life savers. And very soon after jumping in, they too began foundering in the tall waves. 
 On Thursday, it was reported in Crain's New York Business that Mr. Zell has put Newsday, one of Tribune's more lucrative assets, on the auction block. In January, Mr. Tierney told unions at his papers that the company was confronting a ''dire situation'' and needed to cut expenses by 10 percent to meet debt payments. 
 And in Minneapolis last week, the paper's publisher, Chris Harte, met with union leaders to discuss a ''precipitous'' drop in revenue that will make it difficult for the company to meet its obligations, according to MinnPost, a daily news site.
 The industry may not be touching bottom any time soon. Last year, overall newspaper revenues dropped by about 7 percent, pushed along primarily by the secular change of readers and advertisers fleeing to the Web. And publishing, along with many other kinds of businesses, is now staring at a full-bore recession, led by the credit crisis that is fanning out across the economy. 
 Staple the secular and cyclical changes together and most newspapers will be staring at double-digit drops in revenue: one analyst I talked to put the figure at 15 percent. It's clear from their rhetoric and recent moves that highly leveraged players like Mr. Tierney, the partners in Avista and Mr. Zell will have a tough time meeting their obligations. 
 Rick Edmonds, a business analyst at the Poynter Institute and one of the authors of a new report, ''State of the News Media 2008,'' from the Project for Excellence in Journalism, thinks this year will be a doozy.
 ''You already were looking at more of the same, which has not been good, and now with the potential of a recession, you are looking at the possibility of double-digit declines in earnings and revenues,'' he said. ''This is a year when some of the newer players may be hard-pressed to pay the bankers.''
 Even if he is in a bit of a spot, why would Mr. Zell consider letting go of Newsday, once considered a prized asset? It might be because it is one of the few newspapers that will bring a decent number in the current market. 
 Newsday, with its relative monopoly on Long Island, and proximity to the New York market, has a rare kind of strategic value. It could benefit from the contentious tabloid battle between Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation (you knew we'd get around to him, didn't you?), the publisher of The New York Post, and Mortimer B. Zuckerman, who owns The Daily News. Cablevision has also expressed interest in Newsday, and Gannett, which owns a ring of papers north of New York City, may yet get involved. 
 Mr. Murdoch, still in the midst of getting his arms around his $5 billion purchase of The Wall Street Journal, apparently retains an appetite for both newspapers and the competition that has historically been part of the industry. Newspapers, for all of their new media rhetoric, remain primarily a manufacturing industry, and a joint operating agreement with Newsday would allow huge savings in terms of printing and distribution, helping to stem the chronic red ink at The New York Post. 
 Mr. Zuckerman has a low tolerance for losing money, indeed, a low tolerance for losing at anything (I've had the misfortune of confronting him at Ping-Pong). He will not stand by while Mr. Murdoch tries to bear-hug The Daily News out of existence. 
 There will be enormous regulatory hurdles, but the gunfight will be fun to watch, in part because it may be one of the last big fights for a newspaper. Absent a strategic or ego-driven impulse, few people or businesses will be lining up to get involved in print publishing.
 ''The transactions by financial buyers have been disasters, so there has to be a strategic aspect for any newspaper deal to make sense,'' said Peter Appert, a media analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''The painful realities of newspaper economics, which are tough to discern from the outside, become very obvious to the buyers after the fact.''
 Publishing has been through some deep recessions before and has cut costs to maneuver through, but this time staffs have already been cut to the bone. The San Jose Mercury News has cut its staff by more than half since 2000. At many papers, foreign bureaus are gone, movie critics have dropped away and statehouse reporters are a thing of a past. 
 Newspapers continue to gain on the Web in part because they have the best talent, the biggest news hole and the most comprehensive coverage. But that value, which gave many papers their near-monopoly, could be wiped out by a sustained downturn. 
 According to the ''State of the News Media'' report, the extensive cuts across the industry will cripple any potential rebound as newspapers lose authority and franchises in their markets. 
 Mr. Appert remains confident that quality newspapers with a good grip on their audiences will find a way to remain in business through a combination of online and off-line revenues, even if the historically high margins will appear only in the rearview mirror.
 John Morton, a longtime newspaper analyst, is more pessimistic. ''The industry is meeting these challenges by cutting, by reducing the news hole and the people who fill it,'' he said. 
 ''Newspapers have lived through recessions before and come back strong,'' he added. ''My worry is that when things do turn around, they will be coming back in an environment that is more competitive than ever because of the Internet, and that after all these cuts, they will have less stature, less product quality and less talent -- all of the things that they need to compete.''
 While I was on the line with Mr. Morton, I mentioned that we had been talking about newspapers on and off for over a decade. That makes us almost friends, I said. But we are fast becoming the kind of friends who see each other only at funerals and wakes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (65%)

COMPANY: AVISTA CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



608 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Record Education Earmarks

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Congress set aside a record $2.3 billion in pet projects for colleges and universities last year for research on subjects like berries and reducing odors from swine and poultry, according to an analysis by The Chronicle of Higher Education to be published on Monday.
 Despite recent calls in Congress for a moratorium on the home state projects, known as earmarks, the sum was $300 million more than the last time The Chronicle conducted its survey, in 2003, when the total was $2.01 billion. When the publication first analyzed earmarks in 1990, legislators set aside $270 million for colleges and universities. 
 Congress approved 2,306 earmarks last year for higher education, compared with 223 in 1990, The Chronicle said.
 The earmarks included several centers honoring legislators. Among these were a $1.9 million grant to help create the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service at City College of New York. Mr. Rangel, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, sponsored the earmark.
 The largest single earmark for higher education went to the University of South Alabama, which received $30 million for an engineering and science center. Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, inserted the earmark into legislation.
 Mississippi State University got the most money over all, $43 million for more than 30 projects. The University of Mississippi received $37 million from 27 earmarks. Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, the ranking Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee, was responsible for most of those, according to The Chronicle's analysis.
 While such pork-barrel projects range far beyond academia, they are particularly controversial in higher education because they bypass the normal route for financing peer-reviewed scientific research. Typically, research proposals submitted to government entities like the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation are selected after intensive reviews by scientific panels and are based on broad national priorities. 
 Critics say that universities, by lobbying home-state legislators, can get more money with less scrutiny. 
 When it comes to earmarks, said James D. Savage, a professor of politics at the University of Virginia, ''those taxpayer dollars are allocated strictly on the basis of the power and access of the legislators involved.''
 But many lawmakers defend the practice, saying it enables them to support important local institutions and to encourage research that stimulates economic development or to addresses other public needs in their states.
 ''If the federal government is going to explore particular research initiatives,'' said Adam Telle, a spokesman for Mr. Cochran, ''why shouldn't small portions of that research be done in Mississippi, a place where it can both serve the national interest and also generate real opportunity where little may have existed before?''
 All three presidential candidates -- Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, and his prospective Democratic rivals, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois -- have said they would support a moratorium on earmarks. But the Senate rejected the idea on March 13, falling 31 votes short of the 60 needed to overcome a procedural hurdle.
 Mr. McCain, who has criticized earmarks as wasteful, did not introduce any last year. Mr. Obama obtained 10 earmarks worth a total of $19 million, according to the analysis, and Mrs. Clinton was responsible for 21 earmarks worth $70 million, the sixth-highest total in the Senate.
 The Chronicle's research showed that many lawmakers were active last year enthusiastically financing projects for colleges and universities in their districts. Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, created the earmark for $968,000 in research on berries at the University of Alaska at Fairbanks. Three Iowa lawmakers -- Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican, Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat, and Representative Tom Latham, a Republican -- sponsored a $196,000 item for research into ways to reduce odors from swine and poultry. 
 Mr. Cochran inserted a total of $162 million to colleges and universities in his state. Mr. Shelby ranked second among members of Congress, with $86 million. Also active were Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who steered $81 million to higher education institutions in New Mexico, and Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, who sent $74 million to colleges and universities in his state.
 Mr. Rangel's $1.9 million earmark for the City College center that will bear his name was among several ''namesake projects'' secured by committee chairmen and ranking minority members.
 The college has already raised $11 million for the center, which will house Mr. Rangel's papers and a conference center for programs to encourage minority students to pursue careers in public service. The center will also be linked with new undergraduate and graduate majors in public administration.
 An aide, Elbert Garcia, said Mr. Rangel was not available for comment late last week because he was recovering from an illness. Mr. Garcia pointed to a recent statement by Mr. Rangel about the center: ''No matter how one feels about the role of government, it is clear that the future of our democracy lies in having the most talented people across all classes and racial groups to participate in public life.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Thad Cochran sent $162 million to higher education projects in Mississippi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (88%); LOBBYING (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (79%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); POULTRY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (54%)

PERSON: THAD COCHRAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (74%); RICHARD SHELBY (74%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



609 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Taming The Beast

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
We're now in the midst of an epic financial crisis, which ought to be at the center of the election debate. But it isn't.
 Now, I don't expect presidential campaigns to have all the answers to our current crisis -- even financial experts are scrambling to keep up with events. But I do think we're entitled to more answers, and in particular a clearer commitment to financial reform, than we're getting so far.
 In truth, I don't expect much from John McCain, who has both admitted not knowing much about economics and denied having ever said that. Anyway, lately he's been busy demonstrating that he doesn't know much about the Middle East, either. 
 Yet the McCain campaign's silence on the financial crisis has disappointed even my low expectations. 
 And when Mr. McCain's economic advisers do speak up about the economy's problems, they don't inspire confidence. For example, last week one McCain economic adviser -- Kevin Hassett, the co-author of ''Dow 36,000'' -- insisted that everything would have been fine if state and local governments hadn't tried to limit urban sprawl. Honest. 
 On the Democratic side, it's somewhat disappointing that Barack Obama, whose campaign has understandably made a point of contrasting his early opposition to the Iraq war with Hillary Clinton's initial support, has tried to score a twofer by suggesting that the war, in addition to all its other costs, is responsible for our economic troubles. 
 The war is indeed a grotesque waste of resources, which will place huge long-run burdens on the American public. But it's just wrong to blame the war for our current economic mess: in the short run, wartime spending actually stimulates the economy. Remember, the lowest unemployment rate America has experienced over the last half-century came at the height of the Vietnam War. 
 Hillary Clinton has not, as far as I can tell, made any comparably problematic economic claims. But she, like Mr. Obama, has been disappointingly quiet about the key issue: the need to reform our out-of-control financial system.
 Let me explain.
 America came out of the Great Depression with a pretty effective financial safety net, based on a fundamental quid pro quo: the government stood ready to rescue banks if they got in trouble, but only on the condition that those banks accept regulation of the risks they were allowed to take. 
 Over time, however, many of the roles traditionally filled by regulated banks were taken over by unregulated institutions -- the ''shadow banking system,'' which relied on complex financial arrangements to bypass those safety regulations. 
 Now, the shadow banking system is facing the 21st-century equivalent of the wave of bank runs that swept America in the early 1930s. And the government is rushing in to help, with hundreds of billions from the Federal Reserve, and hundreds of billions more from government-sponsored institutions like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks. 
 Given the risks to the economy if the financial system melts down, this rescue mission is justified. But you don't have to be an economic radical, or even a vocal reformer like Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, to see that what's happening now is the quid without the quo. 
 Last week Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, declared that Mr. Frank is right about the need for expanded regulation. Mr. Rubin put it clearly: If Wall Street companies can count on being rescued like banks, then they need to be regulated like banks.
 But will that logic prevail politically?
 Not if Mr. McCain makes it to the White House. His chief economic adviser is former Senator Phil Gramm, a fervent advocate of financial deregulation. In fact, I'd argue that aside from Alan Greenspan, nobody did as much as Mr. Gramm to make this crisis possible.
 Both Democrats, by contrast, are running more or less populist campaigns. But at least so far, neither Democrat has made a clear commitment to financial reform.
 Is that simply an omission? Or is it an ominous omen? Recent history offers reason to worry.
 In retrospect, it's clear that the Clinton administration went along too easily with moves to deregulate the financial industry. And it's hard to avoid the suspicion that big contributions from Wall Street helped grease the rails.
 Last year, there was no question at all about the way Wall Street's financial contributions to the new Democratic majority in Congress helped preserve, at least for now, the tax loophole that lets hedge fund managers pay a lower tax rate than their secretaries. 
 Now, the securities and investment industry is pouring money into both Mr. Obama's and Mrs. Clinton's coffers. And these donors surely believe that they're buying something in return. 
 Let's hope they're wrong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



610 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: A Present for McCain As the Other Side Fights

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Feuding Democrats have handed Senator John McCain the gift of time. How well he uses it may determine his chance to beat them in November.
 At the moment, Republicans can savor protracted warfare between Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. As the Democratic rivals trade attacks, Mr. McCain, already the presumptive Republican nominee, has crept ahead of both in national polls.
 Yet Mr. McCain's advisers recognize their long-term challenges in a remarkably threatening political environment. Voters remain weary of the Iraq war, worried about the economy and disenchanted with the lame-duck Republican president. 
 The Democratic fight is largely personal. But Mr. McCain, of Arizona, faces ideological strains as he leads Republicans beyond the Bush era. Meanwhile, Democrats have expanded their base, and they have the turnout figures and campaign cash to prove it.
 ''All of the energy has been on the Democrat side,'' conceded Rick Davis, the McCain campaign manager. ''That's a hurdle for us.''
 A Biography Tour
 The visible part of Mr. Davis's plan involves laying a sturdier foundation for Mr. McCain's positive, but relatively shallow, public image. It starts in earnest on March 31 with a ''Service for America'' tour, intended to link the senator's biography with his values and policy stances. Along the way, it will underscore life events that occurred in battleground states -- like Virginia, where Mr. McCain attended high school, and Florida, where he trained as a Navy pilot. He will address the dominant domestic issue with events in April promoting his economic agenda.
 Drawing attention amid the Clinton-Obama battle will not be easy. Mr. Davis counts on regional news media coverage from Mr. McCain's travels and on the instinct for the spotlight of ''the best earned-media candidate in history.'' 
 The campaign plans cable television advertising, but only a little, because Mr. McCain is demonstrably not the best candidate in history at raising money. The $12 million he collected in February was less than a quarter of the $55 million for Mr. Obama, of Illinois. To close that gap, the campaign has scheduled a dozen fund-raising events for the next week alone and promises a similar pace throughout the spring.
 Another priority is to bolster Mr. McCain's campaign infrastructure, which has been skeletal since his 2007 fund-raising collapsed. His early triumph in the nominating process allowed him to install operatives at the Republican National Committee, who in tandem with White House political aides can help with strategic planning. 
 Yet Mr. McCain still does not have a pollster, and his ad maker, Mark McKinnon, has said he will not work against Mr. Obama's bid to become the first black president. Other aides expect Mr. McKinnon to overcome his reluctance, but some Republicans outside the campaign worry about the pace of organizational progress.
 ''If they're not doing it now, they're going to find themselves behind the eight ball,'' said a veteran strategist, Tony Fabrizio. 
 The Political Calculus
 Beneath promising horse-race numbers in national polls lies the political terrain that Mr. McCain will confront. He enjoys robust approval among Republicans (78 percent in the most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll) and conservatives (68 percent), but not as robust as Mr. Bush four years ago among the same groups (93 percent and 77 percent, respectively).
 Mr. McCain commands considerable support among independents, especially against Mrs. Clinton, of New York. This suggests that should she win the Democratic nomination, he would have an easier time winning states like New Hampshire and Colorado. Against Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain fares worse among independents but slightly better among Democrats. That signals opportunity in states filled with lunch-bucket Democrats, like Michigan and Ohio. 
 Long before the Democratic race ends, Mr. Fabrizio said, Mr. McCain must ''war game'' a strategy and a message for either outcome.
 Democratic operatives have prepared a sustained attack against what they call myths underlying Mr. McCain's reputation for straight talk. ''It's going to take a while to tear that down,'' said Jim Jordan, a consultant who will lead a Democratic Party advertising campaign to aid its nominee. Lamenting the Clinton-Obama fight, Mr. Jordan added, ''That's why it would be nice to get this over with as soon as possible.''
 For now, Mr. Obama faces continued fallout from the controversy over his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. And Mrs. Clinton continues to fend off Mr. Obama's attacks on her integrity. If that has not made Mr. McCain the fall favorite, it has left him in a far better position than a month ago.
 ''Everything about the playing field still tilts against us,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. ''But the slope is not as steep. As a Republican, things have started to look a little brighter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



611 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3911 words

HEADLINE: We the People?

BYLINE: SARAH SHMITT and ANDREA BROTHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students consider the role of superdelegates and act out the roles of campaign representatives and superdelegates. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students consider the role of superdelegates and act out the roles of campaign representatives and superdelegates.
Author(s):
Sarah Shmitt, The New York Times Learning Network
Andrea Brothman, Bank Street College of Education in New York
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Consider whether top-achieving students should play a role in choosing the school's teaching staff and then compare this scenario with the role of superdelegates in the Democratic Party presidential candidate nominating process.
2. Examine the role and impact of superdelegates by reading and discussing the New York Times Upfront article "My Life as a Superdelegate."
3. Act out a scenario in which "campaign representatives" try to woo "superdelegates."
4. Write a letter to an undecided superdelegate, advising him or her on how to vote.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils
-classroom board
-student journals
-four blank sheets of chart paper
-four markers
-copies of the article "My Life As A Superdelegate" found online at (one per student)
-copies (one per student) of an excerpt from the article "Neck and Neck, Democrats Woo Superdelegates" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/students/pop/articles/10superdelegates_LN.html), as described in the main activity section
Activities / Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW
Write the following prompt on the board prior to class: "Should the 'A' students in this school have a role in hiring the teachers? What are the potential benefits and potential pitfalls of giving top-achieving students the power to hire teachers?" Also prior to class, put up four sheets of chart paper, one in each corner of the room.
When the students are in the room, organize the class into four groups, convened around the sheets of chart paper, in which all ability levels are represented and direct them to discuss the prompt on the board. Have them record their talking points on their chart paper. After a few minutes, have one volunteer from each group share highlights of their group's discussions from their chart paper with the whole class. Did there tend to be consensus within individual groups? In the class as a whole? If so, why? If not, why not? How did students' views tend to diverge?
After the class discussion, you may want to take a vote on whether your class feels that "A" students should be given a role in hiring teachers. Discuss the results of the vote.
Explain to students that in this year's Democratic presidential race, it is likely that neither leading candidate will secure the number of delegates -- 2,025 -- needed to get the party's nomination. This means that the nomination may well be decided by a group of people called superdelegates. In some ways, these superdelegates are somewhat like the "A" students in the warm-up activity: they are informed, motivated and active representatives of the larger group. Should they have the power to choose the nominee? How well does the analogy hold up? In what ways are the two situations significantly different?
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "My Life as a Superdelegate" (), focusing on the following questions:
a. How did Jason Rae get to be a superdelegate?
b. How many superdelegates are there? Why are the superdelegates likely to play a crucial role in this year's Democratic nominating process?
c. How might a superdelegate decide whom to support?
d. Do you think superdelegates should vote their consciences, vote as their state majority voted or decide another way how to vote, and why?
e. Based on the numbers of superdelegates currently pledged to each candidate (view a current delegate count at ), for whom would a superdelegate pledge his or her support if the concern was for the 'will of the voters'?
If there is some confusion in the class about the Democratic party nominating process, you might want to display a list, out of order, of the steps to the nomination and have students put the steps in order. The resulting list would look like this:
-Delegates are elected by rank-and-file party members (citizens registered to vote) in caucuses or primaries.
-Delegates -- both pledged delegates and unpledged superdelegates -- meet at the party convention in the summer to formally cast their votes and finalize the nomination process.
-At the convention, the candidate who earns the majority of the delegates in each party becomes the party's nominee.
-Along with the Republican nominee and third-party candidates, the final Democratic nominee begins campaigning for president.
If students are still confused about the role of superdelegates in the Democratic nominating process, you may wish to direct them to the following Times article: .
3. Have the class return to their four groups from the warm-up activity. Assign two groups to act as Democratic superdelegates, and assign the other two groups to try to "woo" the superdelegates: one group on behalf of Hillary Clinton, the other on behalf of Barack Obama. To help them further prepare for the activity, distribute the following excerpt from the article "Neck and Neck, Democrats Woo Superdelegates" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/students/pop/articles/10superdelegates_LN.html):
"Mr. Obama, talking to reporters in Seattle on Friday, said he believed superdelegates should follow the will of the voters. 'My strong belief is that if we end up with the most states and the most pledged delegates from the most voters in the country, that it would be problematic for the political insiders to overturn the judgment of the voters,' Mr. Obama said. 'I think it is also important for superdelegates to think about who will be in the strongest position to defeat John McCain in November and who will be in the strongest position to ensure that we are broadening the base, bringing people who historically have not gotten involved in politics into the fold.'
"Mrs. Clinton, campaigning Saturday in Maine, disputed Mr. Obama's interpretation of how superdelegates should make their decision, arguing, as her aides have in conversations with superdelegates, that they should make an independent decision based on who they thought would be the strongest candidate and president. ... 'Superdelegates are, by design, supposed to exercise independent judgment,' she said at a news conference in Maine."
Give students a few minutes to carefully read, noting the difference in opinion between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama on the role of the superdelegates.
Next, the students in the superdelegate group should meet to discuss the pros and cons of voting according to the will of the voters and of voting according to their own consciences. Meanwhile, students in the Clinton and Obama groups should prepare their strategy for trying to woo the superdelegates -- appealing, as desired, to the "will of the people" and/or "conscience" arguments. (If Internet access is available in class, have students do basic research as needed, using the candidates' official Web sites, http://www.hillaryclinton.com and http://BarackObama.com, and the Times's Election Guide 2008, .)
Then have students meet "speed-dating" style, with the "superdelegates" seated in chairs and "campaign representatives" lined up alternately (Clinton-Obama-Clinton-Obama, etc.), sitting down opposite them for periods of two minutes, giving their pitch. After two minutes have passed, have the representatives move over one seat. Repeat so that every superdelegate hears from at least two representatives from each campaign.
Finally, distribute blank slips of paper to the superdelegates so they can cast their ballots and jot down their reason for their vote. When the votes are in and tallied, read out the superdelegates' reasoning. Did most go with the "will of the people" or the "conscience" arguments? Why? Hold a short debriefing session in which the superdelegates provide insights into their reasoning and give feedback to the campaign representatives. Did the use of superdelegates seem to be fair? Does it seem to be in keeping with the definition of the democratic process? Why or why not?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK
4. Individually, students choose one undecided superdelegate (according to the list at http://politics.nytimes.com/election-guide/2008/results/superdelegates/index.html) and write a letter to that person about how you think he or she should vote and why, taking into account the candidates' perceived strengths and weaknesses as well as the "will of the people" and "conscience" arguments.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-Why doesn't the Republican party use superdelegates in their nominating process?
-How does the use of superdelegates address the concerns of women and minorities? Why?
-Why does the United States use representative democracy instead of direct democracy?
-What is the effect on a political party of a lengthy nominating process? Should the United States consider a national primary? What would be the advantages and disadvantages?
Evaluation/Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on active participation in the warm-up exercise, thoughtful contribution to the group activity and a thoughtfully written letter.
Vocabulary:
superdelegates, presumptive, nominee, courted, inappropriately, fielding, exhilarating
Extension Activities:
1. Using the Times election guide () track the delegate count for both parties. Create a map, pie chart or Web-based visual representation that depicts how the delegates effectively represent their states' voting population. Make sure you take into account the various ways in which states apportion delegates (winner take all vs. percentage).
2. When the first Americans were arguing the relative merits of federalism, a central concern expressed by James Madison in the Federalist Papers was that "factions" (groups of people united by a common interest) would silence minority views. Research Madison's solution to the potential power of factions and write an article that draws comparisons between his ideas and the notion of superdelegates as representatives of the people's will.
3. This year's presidential election is historical for many reasons, not least of which is that both a woman and an African-American have won enthusiastic supporters that defy easy categorization. Research the data about who each candidate's supporters are. Make a poster representing voting trends for each group and, in a short paragraph on the poster, draw inferences about the nature of the voting trends and your conclusions about why trends in this election change.
4. Create a list of questions you'd like to ask each Democratic candidate about his or her thoughts on the current election process, including the use of superdelegates to choose the nominee, and explain how they might respond based on what you have read. Read and document articles about the candidates to try to obtain accurate information.
5. During elections, people sometimes express ambivalence about participating, claiming that their vote makes no difference in the outcome. Write a short paper including and evaluating the arguments that both support and refute this claim, providing facts and statistics for each argument.
6. A number of bands have recorded songs that offer commentary on this election or on the issues at its core. Using your own music library, make a CD of songs that offer political commentary relevant to this election. Write one paragraph per song in which you respond to the artist's work, noting whether you agree or disagree with the sentiment expressed and why.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Mathematics - Superdelegates have been instrumental in other elections: 1972, 1980 and 1984. Create a graph or chart that illustrates a comparison of superdelegates' affiliations in two of these elections.
Media Studies - Explore various print, television and online media outlets for photographs and footage of the candidates and of President George W. Bush. How do images influence our opinions about politicians? Write a short analysis of the use of photos and video as political tools.
Health - All the candidates have claimed to have solutions to the current crisis in the health care system. Research each candidate's ideas and choose one to support or refute.
Science - Climate change has been acknowledged by all three remaining candidates. However, the candidates' plans for reducing greenhouse gases differ greatly. Explore how the Republicans' ideas about dealing with climate change differ from the Democrats' by reading their party platforms and visiting candidates' Web sites.
Teaching with The Times - Read the Op-Ed section of The Times every Sunday for one month. At the end of the month, write a reflection that summarizes the main issues concerning the election that have come up. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership and different ways that groups function. Benchmark: Understands how language, literature, the arts, architecture, other artifacts, traditions, beliefs, values and behaviors contribute to the development and transmission of culture.
Civics Standard 1- Understands ideas about civic life, politics and government. Benchmarks: Knows institutions that have the authority to direct or control the behavior of members of a society; understands major ideas about why government is necessary.
Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life; knows that constitutional government is a fundamental principle of American democracy.
Civics Standard 20- Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections, and associations and groups in American politics. Benchmarks: Understands the role of political parties; knows the various kinds of elections; understands the ways in which individuals can participate in political parties, campaigns and elections.
Civics Standard 25- Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights. Benchmarks: Knows what constitutes personal rights and the major documentary sources of personal rights; understands the importance to individuals and society of such personal rights as freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression and association, freedom of movement and residence, and privacy.
Civics Standard 27- Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities. Benchmarks: Understands the importance for individuals and society of commonly held civic responsibilities such as paying taxes, being informed and attentive to public issues, monitoring political leaders and governmental agencies, and taking appropriate action if their adherence to constitutional principles is lacking, deciding whether and how to vote, participating in civic groups, performing public service, serving as a juror and serving in the armed forces; understands the meaning of civic responsibilities as distinguished from personal responsibilities, and understands contemporary issues that involve civic responsibilities.
Civics Standard 28- Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals. Benchmarks: Understands how participation in civic and political life can help bring about the attainment of individual and public goals; understands the importance of both political and social participation and what distinguishes one from the other, and knows opportunities for both political and social participation in the local community; understands how Americans can use the following means to monitor and influence politics and government at local, state and national levels: joining political parties, interest groups and other organizations that try to influence public policy and elections; voting; taking part in peaceful demonstrations; and circulating and signing petitions; understands why becoming knowledgeable about public affairs and the values and principles of American constitutional democracy, and communicating that knowledge to others, is a form a political participation.
Civics Standard 29- Understands the importance of political leadership, public service and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands the functions of political leadership and why leadership is a vital necessity in a constitutional democracy; knows personal qualities necessary for political leadership, and understands ethical dilemmas that might confront political leaders; knows opportunities for political leadership in the student's own school, community, state and the nation; and understands the importance of individuals working cooperatively with their elected leaders; understands why becoming knowledgeable about public affairs and the values and principles of American constitutional democracy and communicating that knowledge to others is an important form of participation, and understands the argument that constitutional democracy requires the participation of an attentive, knowledgeable and competent citizenry.
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret and speculate about problems/solutions and causes and effects; writes reflective compositions.
Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; listens in order to understand a speaker's topic, purpose and perspective.
Grades 9-12
Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development. Benchmark: Understands that cultural beliefs strongly influence the values and behavior of the people who grow up in the culture, often without their being fully aware of it, and that people have different responses to these influences.
Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership and different ways that groups function. Benchmark: Understands that social groups may have patterns of behavior, values, beliefs and attitudes that can help or hinder cross-cultural understanding.
Civics Standard 1- Understands ideas about civic life, politics and government. Benchmarks: Understands how politics enables a group of people with varying opinions and/or interests to reach collective decisions, influence decisions and accomplish goals that they could not reach as individuals; knows formal institutions that have the authority to make and implement binding decisions.
Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how the institutions of government reflect fundamental values and principles; understands the significance of fundamental values and principles for the individual and society.
Civics Standard 20- Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections, and associations and groups in American politics. Benchmarks: Knows the origins and development of the two party system in the United States, and understands the role of third parties; understands how and why American political parties differ from ideological parties in other countries; understands how political parties are involved in channeling public opinion, allowing people to act jointly, nominating candidates, conducting campaigns and training future leaders, and understands why political parties in the United States are weaker today than they have been at times in the past; understands the significance of campaigns and elections in the American political system, and knows current criticisms of campaigns and proposals for their reform.
Civics Standard 25- Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights. Benchmarks: Understands the importance to individuals and to society of personal rights such as freedom of thought and conscience, privacy and personal autonomy, and the right to due process of law and equal protection of the law; understands how personal, political and economic rights are secured by constitutional government and by such means as the rule of law, checks and balances, an independent judiciary and a vigilant citizenry.
Civics Standard 27- Understands how certain character traits enhance citizens' ability to fulfill personal and civic responsibilities. Benchmarks: Understands the importance for individuals and society of fulfilling civic responsibilities such as assuming leadership when appropriate, registering to vote, and voting knowledgeably on candidates and issues; understands whether and when moral obligations or constitutional principles require one to refuse to assume certain civic responsibilities.
Civics Standard 28- Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals. Benchmarks: Understands how individual participation in the political process relates to the realization of the fundamental values of American constitutional democracy; knows the many ways citizens can participate in the political process at local, state, and national levels, and understands the usefulness of other forms of political participation in influencing public policy; Understands the importance of voting as a form of political participation.
Civics Standard 29- Understands the importance of political leadership, public service and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands the functions of political leadership and why leadership is a vital necessity in a constitutional democracy; knows personal qualities necessary for political leadership, and understands ethical dilemmas that might confront political leaders; knows opportunities for political leadership in the student's own school, community, state and the nation; and understands the importance of individuals working cooperatively with their elected leaders; understands why becoming knowledgeable about public affairs and the values and principles of American constitutional democracy, and communicating that knowledge to others, is an important form of participation, and understands the argument that constitutional democracy requires the participation of an attentive, knowledgeable and competent citizenry.
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret and speculate about problems/solutions, and causes and effects; writes descriptive compositions.
Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes; responds to questions and feedback about own presentations.

        
My Life as a Super Delegate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPERDELEGATES (96%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HISTORY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%) Academic Skills; American Government; American History; Civics; Current Events; Elections in the United States; Language Arts; Media Studies; Politics and Policy; Presentations and Public Speaking; Social Studies; The White House; U.S. Presidency

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



612 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Bats Perish, and No One Knows Why

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
Al Hicks was standing outside an old mine in the Adirondacks, the largest bat hibernaculum, or winter resting place, in New York State. 
 It was broad daylight in the middle of winter, and bats flew out of the mine about one a minute. Some had fallen to the ground where they flailed around on the snow like tiny wind-broken umbrellas, using the thumbs at the top joint of their wings to gain their balance. 
 All would be dead by nightfall. Mr. Hicks, a mammal specialist with the state's Environmental Conservation Department, said: ''Bats don't fly in the daytime, and bats don't fly in the winter. Every bat you see out here is a 'dead bat flying,' so to speak.''
 They have plenty of company. In what is one of the worst calamities to hit bat populations in the United States, on average 90 percent of the hibernating bats in four caves and mines in New York have died since last winter. 
 Wildlife biologists fear a significant die-off in about 15 caves and mines in New York, as well as at sites in Massachusetts and Vermont. Whatever is killing the bats leaves them unusually thin and, in some cases, dotted with a white fungus. Bat experts fear that what they call White Nose Syndrome may spell doom for several species that keep insect pests under control. 
 Researchers have yet to determine whether the bats are being killed by a virus, bacteria, toxin, environmental hazard, metabolic disorder or fungus. Some have been found with pneumonia, but that and the fungus are believed to be secondary symptoms.
 ''This is probably one of the strangest and most puzzling problems we have had with bats,'' said Paul Cryan, a bat ecologist with the United States Geological Survey. ''It's really startling that we've not come up with a smoking gun yet.''
 Merlin Tuttle, the president of Bat Conservation International, an education and research group in Austin, Tex., said: ''So far as we can tell at this point, this may be the most serious threat to North American bats we've experienced in recorded history. ''It definitely warrants immediate and careful attention.''
 This month, Mr. Hicks took a team from the Environmental Conservation Department into the hibernaculum that has sheltered 200,000 bats in past years, mostly little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) and federally endangered Indiana bats (Myotis sodalis), with the world's second largest concentration of small-footed bats (Myotis leibii). 
 He asked that the mine location not be published, for fear that visitors could spread the syndrome or harm the bats or themselves.
 Other visitors do not need directions. The day before, Mr. Hicks saw eight hawks circling the parking lot of another mine, waiting to kill and eat the bats that flew out. 
 In a dank galley of the mine, Mr. Hicks asked everyone to count how many out of 100 bats had white noses. About half the bats in one galley did. They would be dead by April, he said.
 Mr. Hicks, who was the first person to begin studying the deaths, said more than 10 laboratories were trying to solve the mystery.
 In January 2007, a cave explorer reported an unusual number of bats flying near the entrance of a cavern near Albany. In March and April, thousands of dead bats were found in three other mines and caves. In one case, half the dead or living bats had the fungus. 
 One cave had 15,584 bats in 2005, 6,735 in 2007 and an estimated 1,500 this winter. Another went from 1,329 bats in 2006 to 38 this winter. Some biologists fear that 250,000 bats could die this year.
 Since September, when hibernation began, dead or dying bats have been found at 15 sites in New York. Most of them had been visited by people who had been at the original four sites last winter, leading researchers to suspect that humans could transmit the problem.
 Details on the problem in neighboring states are sketchier. ''In the Berkshires in Massachusetts, we are getting reports of dying/dead bats in areas where we do not have known bat hibernacula, so we may have more sites than we will ever be able to identify,'' said Susi von Oettingen, an endangered species biologist with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 In Vermont, Scott Darling, a wildlife biologist with the Fish and Wildlife Department, said: ''The last tally that I have is approximately 20 sites in New York, 4 in Vermont and 2 in Massachusetts. We only have estimates of the numbers of bats in the affected sites -- more or less 500,000. It is impossible for us to count the dead bats, as many have flown away from the caves and died -- we have over 90 reports from citizens across Vermont -- as well as many are still dying.''
 People are not believed to be susceptible to the affliction. But New Jersey, New York and Vermont have advised everyone to stay out of all caverns that might have bats. Visitors to affected caves and mines are asked to decontaminate all clothing, boots, ropes and other gear, as well as the car trunks that transport them.
 One affected mine is the winter home to a third of the Indiana bats between Virginia and Maine. These pink-nosed bats, two inches long and weighing a quarter-ounce, are particularly social and cluster together as tightly as 300 a square foot.
 ''It's ironic, until last year most of my time was spent trying to delist it,'' or take it off the endangered species list, Mr. Hicks said, after the state's Indiana bat population grew, to 52,000 from 1,500 in the 1960s.
 ''It's very scary and a little overwhelming from a biologist's perspective,'' Ms. von Oettingen said. ''If we can't contain it, we're going to see extinctions of listed species, and some of species that are not even listed.''
 Neighbors of mines and caves in the region have notified state wildlife officials of many affected sites when they have noticed bats dead in the snow, latched onto houses or even flying in a recent snowstorm. 
 Biologists are concerned that if the bats are being killed by something contagious either in the caves or elsewhere, it could spread rapidly, because bats can migrate hundreds of miles in any direction to their summer homes, known as maternity roosts. At those sites, females usually give birth to one pup a year, an added challenge for dropping populations. 
 Nursing females can eat up to half their weight in insects a day, Mr. Hicks said.
 Researchers from institutions like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the United States Geological Survey's National Wildlife Health Center, Boston University, the New York State Health Department and even Disney's Animal World are addressing the problem. Some are considering trying to feed underweight wild bats to help them survive the remaining weeks before spring. Some are putting temperature sensors on bats to monitor how often they wake up, and others are making thermal images of hibernating bats. 
 Other researchers want to know whether recently introduced pesticides, including those released to stop West Nile virus, may be contributing to the problem, either through a toxin or by greatly reducing the bat's food source. 
 Dr. Thomas H. Kunz, a biology professor at Boston University, said the body composition of the bats would also be studied, partly to determine the ratio of white to brown fat. Of particular interest is the brown fat between the shoulder blades, known to assist the bats in warming up when they begin to leave deep hibernation in April.
 ''It appears the white nose bats do not have enough fat, either brown or white, to arouse,'' Dr. Kunz said. ''They're dying in situ and do not have the ability to arouse from their deep torpor.'' 
 His researchers' cameras have shown that bats in the caves that do wake up when disturbed take hours longer to do so, as was the case in the Adirondack mine. He also notes that if females become too emaciated, they will not have the hormonal reactions necessary to ovulate and reproduce. 
 In searching for a cause of the syndrome, researchers are hampered by the lack of baseline knowledge about habits like how much bats should weigh in the fall, where they hibernate and even how many bats live in the region. 
 ''We're going to learn an awful lot about bats in a comprehensive way that very few animal species have been looked at,'' said Dr. Elizabeth Buckles, an assistant professor at Cornell who coordinates bat research efforts. ''That's good. But it's unfortunate it has to be under these circumstances.''
 The die-offs are big enough that they may have economic effects. A study of Brazilian free-tailed bats in southwestern Texas found that their presence saved cotton farmers a sixth to an eighth of the cash value of their crops by consuming insect pests. 
 ''Logic dictates when you are potentially losing as many as a half a million bats in this region, there are going to be ramifications for insect abundance in the coming summer,'' Mr. Darling, the Vermont wildlife biologist, said. 
 As Mr. Hicks traveled deeper in the cave, the concentrations of bats hanging from the ceiling increased. They hung like fruit, generally so still that they appeared dead. In some tightly packed groups, just individual noses or elbows peeked through. A few bats had a wing around their nearest cavemates. Their white bellies mostly faced downhill. When they awoke, they made high squeaks, like someone sucking a tooth.
 The mine floors were not covered with carcasses, Mr. Hicks said, because raccoons come in and feed on them. Raccoon scat dotted the rocks along the trail left by their footprints. 
 In the six hours in the cave taking samples, nose counts and photographs, Mr. Hicks said that for him trying for the perfect picture was a form of therapy. ''It's just that I know I'm never going to see these guys again,'' he said. ''We're the last to see this concentration of bats in our lifetime.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THREAT: Healthy bats, like the one above, hibernate in winter. But bats dying from a mystery illness have been found in the snow in daylight hours, below, and dotted with a white fungus, bottom.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DURHAM/GETTY IMAGES (ABOVE)
PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL J. OKONIEWSKI/THE NEW YORK TIMES (BELOW))(pg. F1)
DIRE EFFECTS: Top, Ryan von Lindin, a biologist (with Tina Kelley of The New York Times), in a mine in the Adirondacks. Biologists fear a significant die-off in about 15 caves and mines in New York, affecting Indiana bats, left, and little brown bats, right, among others.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL HICKS (TOP)
 OTHER PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERLIN D. TUTTLE/BAT CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL)(pg. F4) MAP: Death in the Adirondacks: Biologists fear a significant die-off of bats in about 15 caves and mines in New York, as well as at sites in Massachusetts and Vermont.(Source: ''The Wild Mammals of Missouri,'' by Charles W. Schwartz and Elizabeth R. Schwartz)(pg. F4) Map details North American map and various types of bats in various regions including Hibernaculum in old mine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); BIOLOGY (75%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); HISTORY (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); PNEUMONIA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BAT CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



613 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Are We Ready to Track Carbon Footprints?

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Before I unveil my plan to combat global warming using mood rings and glowing lapel pins, let me explain the scientific rationale. 
 Everyone talks about the future weather, but so far nobody has done much about it, not even the many people and politicians convinced that climate change will be a serious problem. This situation comes as no surprise to the behavioral researchers who have been studying the human brain's penchant for making dumb choices.
 We can't even prepare properly for something as straightforward as our own retirement. We'll put in long hours shopping for a cellphone or a television set, but we're too busy to agonize over pension plans: in one study, most people spent less than an hour choosing theirs. We're not good at making immediate sacrifices for an abstract benefit in the future. And this weakness is compounded when, as with climate change, we have a hard time even understanding the problem or the impact of our actions today. 
 But we also have peculiarities that could be useful in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. With the right prompting, we'll make sacrifices for the common good and perform acts of charity that we'd never do for any amount of pay. We'll reform our behavior strikingly to conform with social norms. We'll even make astute cost-benefit judgments if we get simple, clear feedback -- that's why cars come with idiot lights.
 We need the right nudge, to borrow the title of the new book applying the lessons of social psychology and behavioral economics to everything from health care to climate maintenance. The authors of ''Nudge,'' Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler of the University of Chicago, agree with economists who'd like to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by imposing carbon taxes or a cap-and-trade system, but they think people need extra guidance. 
 ''Getting the prices right will not create the right behavior if people do not associate their behavior with the relevant costs,'' says Dr. Thaler, a professor of behavioral science and economics. ''When I turn the thermostat down on my A-C, I only vaguely know how much that costs me. If the thermostat were programmed to tell you immediately how much you are spending, the effect would be much more powerful.''
 It would be still more powerful, he and Mr. Sunstein suggest, if you knew how your energy consumption compared with the social norm. A study in California showed that when the monthly electric bill listed the average consumption in the neighborhood, the people in above-average households significantly decreased their consumption. 
 Meanwhile, the people with the below-average bills reacted by significantly increasing their consumption -- not exactly the goal of the project. 
 That reaction was avoided when the bill featured a little drawing along with the numbers: a smiling face on a below-average bill or a frowning face on an above-average bill. After that simple nudge, the heavy users made even bigger cuts in consumption, while the light users remained frugal. 
 Mr. Sunstein and Dr. Thaler suggest applying those principles with something more sophisticated than smiley faces. A glowing ball called the Ambient Orb, programmed to change colors as the price of electricity increases at peak periods, has been given to some utility customers in California, who promptly reduced their usage by 40 percent when the ball glowed red in peak periods. 
 Another gadget, the Wattson, which changes colors depending upon how much electricity a house is using, collects data that can be displayed on a Web site. Clive Thompson, a columnist for Wired, has suggested that people start displaying the Wattson data on their Facebook pages, an excellent idea that I'd like to take a little further. 
 I'd like to see a new green fad for electronic jewelry with real-time displays of carbon footprints. These could be mood rings, bracelets, lapel pins or anything else that could change color depending on how much electricity you use, how much gasoline your car burns, how much you travel. 
 The displays might change color from red to yellow to green as a carbon footprint diminishes. (There might even be a little glowing footprint on it.) The green might be a dim shade for those who have bought carbon credits to offset their energy use, but a much brighter shade for those who've reduced emissions to below-average without having to buy the credits. 
 Of course, it would be a chore to set up monitors for energy use, but plenty of greens are willing to give lots of time to the cause. Some are accused of being religious zealots -- global warmists. But one of the advantages of religion is that it inspires people to acts of selflessness for the common good. Why not reward devout conservationists by letting them display their virtue? 
 This would be a strictly voluntary system -- climate contrarians could either ignore it or proudly wear their flashing red lapel pins -- and it would cost taxpayers nothing.
 But by encouraging people to find the most efficient ways to conserve energy, this nudge might do more good than some of the expensive subsidies being handed out in Congress.
 Besides putting the enthusiasm of greens to practical use, this fashion statement might also inject some realism into the debate about global warming. Once you start keeping track of all the energy you use, you begin to see the difficulties of making drastic reductions -- and the difference between effective actions and ritual displays. 
 Installing a solar-powered hot-water heater or a windmill at your place in the country is not going to erase the carbon footprint of maintaining and traveling to a second home. Recycling glass bottles and avoiding plastic bags at the grocery store will not offset your car's emissions. 
 Switching to a Prius will not undo the effects of frequent air travel. A couple of international trips can be worse for your carbon footprint than driving a Hummer for a year. If the delegates to future conferences on climate change are expected to wear illuminated symbols of their energy consumption, they won't be visiting any more spots like Bali.
 But I'm getting ahead of myself here. First, with your help (go to tierneylab.blogs.nytimes.com), we have to work out the details of this device, starting with what it should measure and what it would be called. 
 The Green Lantern is an obvious name, but there may be trademark problems. GreenGlow? Eglow? Enudge? The Nudgie? Further research is clearly needed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY VIKTOR KOEN)(pg. F1)
 (pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); CONSUMPTION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (72%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Nudge (Book)>; Nudge (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



614 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: In Pennsylvania Towns, a Sense of Disenfranchisement as Primary Vote Nears

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: DOVER, Pa. 

 BODY:
In the seamless way of small towns, people in this neatly combed community of farms and businesses 20 miles south of Harrisburg observe a self-imposed taboo against discussing a subject that consumed everybody, pretty much, just a few years ago.
 It was the battle between the creationists and the secularists -- or, more accurately, among the previously friendly neighbors who in 2004 shed their cordiality to enlist in an ideological battle when the school board voted to add the so-called intelligent design theory to the ninth-grade biology curriculum. 
 A group of parents sued to block the board's action; another group lined up behind it. A long trial ensued, costing a million dollars in lawyer fees. And when it was over, a federal judge agreed with the parents who said the notion of intelligent design was basically a religious one, with no place in the curriculum of a public school.
 Partly along ideological lines, and partly as punishment for having cost taxpayers so much money, all but one member of the school board were expelled in subsequent elections.
 ''People try not to bring it up at all,'' John Rinehart, a Dover native and father of two high school students, said after a recent school concert in which his son performed. ''There was a sense of disappointment, on all sides. There was so much 'I'm-right-and-you're-wrong' discord. It just doesn't accomplish anything to talk about it.''
 In a way, Dover's communal vow of silence reflects a sense of disappointment, and regret, that people in a half-dozen Pennsylvania communities visited last week also expressed when talking about presidential politics. The campaign has begun to infiltrate airwaves and dot front lawns in Pennsylvania in advance of its April 22 primary. 
 The feeling that everyone (except oneself) is an entrenched stakeholder -- that no one really listens but holds fast only to a piece of political or cultural real estate -- seems common to people everywhere, regardless of their politics or perspective.
 Some people in Johnstown last week, for instance, said they were convinced the economy was in the hands of a few globally powerful people beyond the reach of electoral change, and so might not bother to vote. Some people just off the Pennsylvania State University campus in State College said meaningful discussion of post-9/11 foreign policy was almost impossible because of taboos against mentioning Middle East grievances that might relate to the attacks.
 A. J. Truilizio, a retired boiler operator in Johnstown whose favorite comedian is Jay Leno, said he was convinced that if a woman or a black man was elected president, ''Leno won't be as funny, you know?'' He added, ''It's like, nothing you can say doesn't offend somebody nowadays.''
 This commonwealth of frustration is usually described among conservatives as the result of a tyranny of political correctness. Among liberals, it gets framed as the collapse of civility and social consciousness.
 Yet in recent interviews with Pennsylvania voters of both parties, there seems to be a yearning for an imagined past of common values -- what Laura Nazmack, a special-education teacher and Dover native, called a time ''when you used to know what was what.'' 
 For Carl Leathery, a semiretired electrician in Dover, it was a time when the company you worked for, say the brick-making factory in town owned for generations by the Baker family, where Mr. Leathery used to work, built hospital wings and donated money to the Dover library. ''Now, that company's been sold three or four times, and the owners live in Germany,'' he said. ''That whole era is gone.''
 For Ms. Nazmack, it was a time when children started every school day with a prayer to God and ''nobody made all this fuss.''
 After the court decision in 2005, some parents removed their children from the Dover Area School District, either to home-school them or enroll them in Christian schools. Others just seemed to drop the subject in an effort to restore a sense of civic wholeness.
 The farming community in Dover dates to the early 19th century, though in the last 20 years new people from Harrisburg and Baltimore have built most of the spacious new homes along the edges of the rolling farm fields, said Bryan Rehm, a newly elected member of the school board. (''My wife grew up here,'' he said. ''I'm the newcomer.'')
 That division of old and new was one of the fault lines that led to the civic break of 2004, but it was not the main one. ''It is part of the whole national situation,'' Mr. Rehm said.
 Dover just happened to be a spot where the ground shifted. ''Now, it's gone down below again,'' Mr. Rehm said. ''It's still there though. You can feel it.''
 If tension remains, it was absent from the stage at a recent high school concert, where the performers -- including children from both sides of the battle, according to parents in the audience who knew them -- found a pitch-perfect harmony.
 The Jazz Quartet played a steamy ode to love. The drum line played an original composition that was thrilling and light-hearted. There was no hint of the culture trouble; and as evidence of the apparent resolve to give one's neighbors a wide berth on matters religious, there were no objections, either, when the Renaissance Choir sang a song with lyrics direct from the Gospel of Matthew, ''Where two or three are gathered in My name, there will I be also.''
 All that mattered now, said Lou Ann Lehman, the mother of one of the performers, was to ''get past that chapter and heal.'' 
 Whatever that may mean, the students of Dover put on a show that night, melding voices and instruments as smoothly as shades of brown and green melded in the wintry landscape outside.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl Leathery and his springer spaniel, Bud, headed home Friday after decorating his parents' graves for Easter in Dover, Pa.
 Laura Nazmack, a special-education teacher in Dover, spoke longingly of a time ''when you used to know what was what.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CREATIONISM (90%); ELECTION MONITORING (90%); CURRICULA (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); JUDGES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (73%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



615 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Skipping Cereal and Eggs, And Packing On Pounds

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

 BODY:
Researchers have found evidence that Mom was right: breakfast may really be the most important meal of all. A new study reports that the more often adolescents eat breakfast, the less likely they are to be overweight.
 The researchers examined the eating and exercise habits of 1,007 boys and 1,215 girls, with an average age of 15 at the start of the five-year study -- a racially and economically diverse sample from public schools in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. 
 The authors found a direct relationship between eating breakfast and body mass index; the more often an adolescent had breakfast, the lower the B.M.I. And whether they looked at the data at a given point or analyzed changes over time, that relationship persisted. 
 Why eating breakfast should lead to fewer unwanted pounds is unclear, but the study found that breakfast eaters consumed greater amounts of carbohydrates and fiber, got fewer calories from fat and exercised more. Consumption of fiber-rich foods may improve glucose and insulin levels, making people feel satisfied and less likely to eat more later in the day.
 ''Food consumption at breakfast does seem to influence activity,'' said Donna Spruijt-Metz, an assistant professor of preventive medicine at the University of Southern California, who was not involved in the study. ''Maybe kids eating breakfast get less refined foods and more that contain fiber. The influence of that on metabolism and behavior is something we're still trying to sort out in my lab.''
 For the study, which appears in the March issue of Pediatrics, the researchers recorded food intake using a well-established food frequency questionnaire and added specific questions about how often the teenagers ate breakfast. 
 They also included questions to determine the behavioral and social forces that might affect eating. For example, they asked whether the teenagers were concerned about their weight, whether they skipped meals to lose weight, whether they had ever been teased about their weight and how often they had dieted during the last year. They were also asked how much exercise they were getting. 
 About half the teenagers ate breakfast intermittently, but girls were more likely to skip breakfast consistently and boys more likely to eat it every day. Girls who consistently ate breakfast had an overall diet higher in cholesterol, fiber and total calories than those who skipped the meal; the boys who were consistent consumed more calories, more carbohydrates and fiber, and less saturated fat than their breakfast-skipping peers.
 At the start of the study, consistent breakfast eaters had an average body mass index of 21.7, intermittent eaters 22.5, and those who never had breakfast 23.4. Over the next five years, B.M.I. increased in exactly the same pattern. The relationship persisted even after controlling for age, sex, race, socioeconomic status, smoking and concerns about diet and weight.
 The authors acknowledge that the study depends on self-reports of weight and eating habits, which are not always reliable, and that even though they controlled for many variables, the study was observational, showing only an association between breakfast eating habits and body mass, not a causal relationship.
 Still, Mark A. Pereira, a co-author of the study and an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota, said that eating a healthy breakfast would ''promote healthy eating throughout the day and might help to prevent situations where you're grabbing fast food or vending machine food.'' 
 Dr. Pereira added that parents could begin to set a good example by sitting down to breakfast themselves. ''The whole family structure is involved here,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DIETING (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (76%); OILS & FATS (72%); CHOLESTEROL (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (57%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%) MINNESOTA, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



616 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Election Outcome in Taiwan Buoys Stock Market

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TAIPEI 

 BODY:
Stock prices soared in Taiwan on Monday as investors welcomed Saturday's presidential election victory of Ma Ying-jeou, a Nationalist Party leader who has called for closer relations with mainland China -- a development that could spur the island's lagging economy. 
 The market jumped more than 6 percent at the opening and closed up nearly 4 percent, on top of a 4.5 percent rise last week on expectations that Mr. Ma would win. Taiwan's currency rose more than 1 percent, to settle in New York on Monday at 30.21 to the United States dollar, the strongest in more than 10 years. 
 Mr. Ma said in an interview Sunday that he hoped to have an immediate effect on the economy in his first 100 days in office by opening Taiwan to tourism from mainland China. The island is virtually closed to mainland tourists out of fear that spies and saboteurs might join tour groups and remain behind, though groups of academics and professionals already come. 
 Mr. Ma acknowledged that economic weakness overseas could hurt Taiwan, but said that the answer was to increase spending at home. ''The global economic slowdown is a reality we cannot change,'' he said. ''What we can change is to enlarge domestic demand.'' 
 To do that, he plans a $130 billion spending program over eight years, mostly for infrastructure projects. He also plans to expand rail and highway links and enlarge ports and airports on the island's western coast to accommodate greater trade and travel. And he intends to pursue a variety of ambitious environmental projects, like replanting extensive forests in southern Taiwan to reduce the risk of landslides, the sort of work that may require large numbers of laborers. 
 Economic worries played a central role in the decisive victory of Mr. Ma,who received more than 58 percent of the popular vote compared with less than 42 percent for Frank Hsieh of the Democratic Progressive Party. 
 Officials in Beijing have not issued any response to the outcome, but made clear before the voting that they preferred Mr. Ma. 
 The current president of Taiwan, Chen Shui-bian of the Democratic Progressive Party, has had frosty relations with the mainland as he sought greater political separation for Taiwan. 
 Investment from Taiwan in mainland China has dropped almost by half during Mr. Chen's nearly eight years in office, to about $2 billion a year. Mr. Ma said he would lift the limits on how much capital can be invested there by Taiwan companies. 
 His running mate, Vincent Siew, is a longtime advocate of a common market with the mainland, an idea influenced by the economic integration of much of Europe. 
 Mr. Hsieh attacked this idea as leading to an influx of millions of low-wage mainland laborers into Taiwan. A Democratic Progressive Party rally featured a Trojan horse that, when its belly opened, turned out to have poisoned food from the mainland inside, summoning up the recent health and safety scandals involving products made in China.
 Mr. Ma has recently said that he favors a closer economic cooperation agreement with the mainland that would be based on principles of the World Trade Organization. 
 During the campaign, he promised to raise Taiwan's annual economic growth rate to 6 percent and ensure that a wider part of society benefited from growth. 
 While the economy grew 5.7 percent last year, the gains were heavily concentrated among professionals with jobs in the island's highly successful computer manufacturing industry and among entrepreneurs with mainland investments, as many factories moved to China to tap low-cost labor there. 
 Enoch Fung, a Goldman Sachs economist, predicted in a research note Monday that economic growth in Taiwan would slow to 3.8 percent this year and 4.6 percent next year because of weaker demand for exports. But Mr. Fung also said that closer ties across the Taiwan Strait would increase the possibilities for greater growth.
 Until the last few years, the Democratic Progressive Party tended to be the party of the young, having capitalized on its role in leading Taiwan to full democracy in the 1980s and '90s. But young voters moved to the Nationalist Party this year, as was evident at a large rally on election eve. 
 Frankie Chen, a 22-year-old saleswoman for a computer company, attended the rally with two of her friends: Elliott Lee, a 23-year-old in a marketing training program, and Peggy Huang, a 23-year-old college graduate with a communications arts degree who has been unemployed for the last six months. The three said that many of their friends did not have jobs and that careers with decent paychecks were increasingly difficult to find. 
 They saw more trade with the booming mainland Chinese economy as a way to create well-paid jobs in Taiwan.
 ''If you didn't go to a really good college, you don't have a job right now,'' Ms. Chen said. ''We were born in an age when Taiwan was really rich, but now Taiwan is poor. It's really, really tough for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: There was plenty to smile about in stock trading on Monday in Taipei, where the main index rose nearly 4 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICKY LOH/REUTERS)
 Economic growth in Taiwan has risen modestly though the demand for exports, like these at the port of Kaohsiung, is slowing. The president-elect plans infrastructure and environment projects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICE TSAI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



617 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: On Carbon, Tax and Don't Spend

BYLINE: By MONICA PRASAD. 
Monica Prasad, an assistant professor of sociology and a faculty fellow at the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, is the author of ''The Politics of Free Markets.''

DATELINE: Evanston, Ill. 

 BODY:
 EVERYONE seems to be talking about a carbon tax. It's probably the most glamorous -- and certainly the most unlikely -- use of the tax code since Al Capone got hooked for tax evasion. 
 The idea is that polluters should pay for the environmental damage they cause. Slap a tax on carbon, the theory goes, and you will get fewer carbon emissions, more revenue for government and energy independence, all at the same time. No wonder people from both sides of the political divide have come out in support of it. 
 But a carbon tax isn't a new idea. Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden have had carbon taxes in place since the 1990s, but the tax has not led to large declines in emissions in most of these countries -- in the case of Norway, emissions have actually increased by 43 percent per capita. An economist might say this is fine; as long as the cost of the environmental damage is being internalized, the tax is working -- and emissions might have been even higher without the tax. But what environmentalist would be happy with a 43 percent increase in emissions? 
 The one country in which carbon taxes have led to a large decrease in emissions is Denmark, whose per capita carbon dioxide emissions were nearly 15 percent lower in 2005 than in 1990. And Denmark accomplished this while posting a remarkably strong economic record and without relying on nuclear power.
 What did Denmark do right? There are many elements to its success, but taken together, the insight they provide is that if reducing emissions is the goal, then a carbon tax is a tax you want to impose but never collect. 
 This is a hard lesson to learn. The very thought of new tax revenue has a way of changing the priorities of the most hard-headed politicians -- even Genghis Khan learned to be peaceful, the story goes, when he saw how much more rewarding it was to tax peasants than to kill them. But if we want lower emissions, the goal of a carbon tax is to prompt producers to change their behavior, not to allow them to continue polluting while handing over cash to the government.
 How do you get them to change? First, you prevent policy makers from turning the tax into a cash cow. Carbon tax discussions always seem to devolve into gleeful suggestions for ways to spend the revenue. Reduce the income tax? Give the money to low-income consumers? Use it to pay for health care? Everyone seems to forget that the amount of revenue is directly tied to the amount of pollution that is still going on. 
 Denmark avoids the temptation to maximize the tax revenue by giving the proceeds back to industry, earmarking much of it to subsidize environmental innovation. Danish firms are pushed away from carbon and pulled into environmental innovation, and the country's economy isn't put at a competitive disadvantage. So this is lesson No. 1 from Denmark.
 The second lesson is that the carbon tax worked in Denmark because it was easy for Danish firms to switch to cleaner fuels. Danish policy makers made huge investments in renewable energy and subsidized environmental innovation. Denmark back then was more reliant on coal than the other three countries were (but not more so than the United States is today), so when the tax gave companies a reason to leave coal and the investments in renewable energy gave them an easy way to do so, they switched. The key was providing easy substitutes.
 The next president of the United States seems sure to be more committed to environmental policy than the current president is, and a carbon tax is high on everyone's list of options. Indeed, a carbon tax has been promoted almost as a panacea -- just pop in the economic incentives and watch them work their magic. But unless steps are taken to lock the tax revenue away from policymakers and invest in substitutes, a carbon tax could lead to more revenue rather than to less pollution.
 An increase in gasoline taxes -- the first instinct of many American policy makers when the idea of a carbon tax comes up -- would likewise be the wrong policy for the United States. Higher gas taxes would raise revenue but do little to curb pollution.
 Instead, if we want to reduce carbon emissions, then we should follow Denmark's example: tax the industrial emission of carbon and return the revenue to industry through subsidies for research and investment in alternative energy sources, cleaner-burning fuel, carbon-capture technologies and other environmental innovations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); TAX FRAUD (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) DENMARK (94%); NORWAY (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



618 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: At 11th Hour, Rivals Vie for Deal on West Side Railyards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Less than 36 hours before the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was to select the winning bidder to develop the West Side railyards, the developers Douglas Durst and Steven Roth were still hotly pursuing the 26-acre project on Monday, offering a joint bid that was nearly as high as the front-runner's, but with a starkly different vision for the property.
 The railyards, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg once described as an ugly hole in the ground, are both a huge opportunity for developers in Manhattan, where there is little undeveloped land, and a risky proposition, requiring the construction of a $1.5 billion platform over the yards before the first tower can be erected. 
 The transportation authority, which wants the money for its capital budget, opened the bidding in October, attracting five bids from some of the biggest developers in the city. It has sought the highest possible price, even as the economic climate deteriorated, pitting all the bidders against one another until late last week. Gary J. Dellaverson, the executive at the authority who has overseen the sale, plans to bring a deal to its board meeting on Wednesday for approval.
 According to three executives who were briefed on the negotiations, Tishman Speyer Properties, one of the largest real estate operators in Manhattan, emerged as the prospective winner with a bid of slightly more than $1 billion. The company's proposal calls for building four office towers totaling 10 million square feet -- the equivalent of the former twin towers at the World Trade Center -- over the yards, which sit on both sides of 11th Avenue, from 30th Street to 33rd Street. 
 But the second-place bid, a joint venture of the Durst Organization and Mr. Roth's Vornado Realty Trust, is only about $30 million less than that of Tishman Speyer, according to the real estate executives. The Durst-Vornado plans show half as much office space as in the Tishman Speyer proposal for the yards, and 7,000 apartments, or more than twice as much housing, which some real estate executives say is a less risky combination. 
 Few office towers are built without an anchor tenant. Tishman Speyer's anchor, the Wall Street firm Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, dropped out of the project this month after doubts arose over whether its proposed headquarters would be ready by 2013, when the company hoped to consolidate its operations. 
 In negotiations over the past week, the Durst-Roth team has argued that unlike Tishman Speyer, it has an anchor tenant -- Conde Nast Publications -- for its office space and a greater likelihood of approval by the local community board and the city's Planning Commission, which must review the proposed zoning for the yard on the west side of 11th Avenue.
 ''We have been in very active negotiations with the Durst folks,'' said John Bellando, chief operating officer of Conde Nast, which publishes more than 25 magazines and employs 3,500 people. ''We'll see how this shakes out over the next few days.''
 Late Monday afternoon, however, the authority was negotiating the final details of a letter conditionally designating Tishman Speyer as the developer, said one official, who was not authorized to discuss the deal and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 According to three executives who were briefed on the negotiations, the authority has focused on Tishman Speyer's blue-chip aura and its access to capital from around the world. The company controls Rockefeller Center, the Chrysler Building and more than 100 other towers in New York, Washington, London, Paris and Sao Paulo, Brazil. Its chairman, Jerry I. Speyer, is a well-connected business executive who is chairman of the Museum of Modern Art, an owner of the New York Yankees and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 Mr. Speyer's son and heir apparent, Robert, has led the negotiations for the railyards.
 Anna Levin, an influential member of Community Board 4, the local board, said she was disappointed that the transportation authority seemed to favor Tishman Speyer's proposal.
 ''I think the Tishman Speyer plan will face the heaviest going in the public part of the city's land use review process,'' Ms. Levin said. ''The site on the waterfront makes more sense for residential development. It allows for lower-scale buildings on the river and the creation of a residential community around the office towers.''
 The authority's selection committee includes members of the Bloomberg administration, at least in part because the railyard on the west side of 11th Avenue needs to be rezoned. The city's team is led by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the former deputy mayor for economic development who is now president of Bloomberg L.P., the mayor's Bloomberg's company. 
 The headquarters of Bloomberg L.P. are in a building on the East Side that is owned by Mr. Roth's company. The city's Conflict of Interest Board has yet to issue a ruling, requested by Mr. Bloomberg, on the appropriateness of Mr. Doctoroff's role.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in some editions on Tuesday about a last-minute bidding contest over development rights for the West Side railyards in Manhattan gave an outdated name for an investment bank that was to have been the anchor tenant for office towers planned by one bidder, Tishman Speyer Properties. The bank, which has since dropped out of the project, is now Morgan Stanley, not Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. (The error appeared in an article in some editions on Oct. 6 about Morgan Stanley's initial plans to join the project.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (65%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



619 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Overseas Sales Help Tiffany Beat Forecast

BYLINE: BYREUTERS

 BODY:
Tiffany & Company posted higher-than-expected quarterly profit Monday as increased sales overseas and new stores helped offset the effect of a weaker American economy. 
 Tiffany's profit of $118.3 million, or 89 cents per share, in the quarter ended Jan. 31, was a decrease from its $140.5 million profit in the year-ago period. Excluding one-time charges, profit was $1.27 per share.
 The shares of the jewelry company jumped more than 13 percent after it also gave a strong earnings outlook for the current fiscal year and forecast robust sales growth in overseas markets other than Japan.
 Still, Tiffany maintained a cautious stand on United States sales, as it continued to expect earnings to be pressured in the first and second quarters.
 Sales at established United States stores dropped in the key November-December holiday period as shoppers, faced with a weak economy, cut back on purchases of jewelry and other discretionary items.
 But domestic sales benefited from scores of tourists, especially from Europe, who took advantage of the weak dollar and shopped actively in stores in New York, San Francisco and Las Vegas.
 International sales rose 21 percent during the fourth quarter, which ended Jan. 31.
 Tiffany expects net earnings of $2.75 to $2.85 a share for the current year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (94%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (94%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (94%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



620 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation About Race? Yes, It's Needed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Let's Not, and Say We Did,'' by William Kristol (column, March 24):
 Mr. Kristol writes: ''The last thing we need now is a heated national conversation about race. ... 'National conversations' tend to be pointless and result-less.'' 
 We have never had a national conversation about race! We carefully walk on eggshells as if the race problem does not exist. Barack Obama has made an entire nation and possibly an entire world think and reconsider. The truth is we don't know one another, and what better time than now? 
 Judy Konos Slidell, La., March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with William Kristol that we need to talk about much more than race -- certainly reaching the devastating milestone of 4,000 American dead in Iraq is a sobering reminder of that. But Mr. Kristol misses the point. 
 Barack Obama addressed the issue of race because he had to. Until he addressed the issue, no one would even turn to policy debates. 
 For Mr. Obama to open the discussion that no one has wanted to talk about is powerful. And to take the discussion beyond partisan lines is groundbreaking. 
 His statement that ''this union may never be perfect, but generation after generation has shown that it can always be perfected'' was for me a metaphor for his candidacy -- that politicians may not be perfect, but they can always be perfected. Senator Obama is the first politician in my lifetime brave enough to lay it all out there. Regardless of the outcome. Bravo.
 Susan Berger Kabaker Glencoe, Ill., March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol states that the last thing we need is an overheated conversation about race, and thereby implies that a coherent and sober discussion about race is not possible. I believe that there is great fear that such a conversation would rob politicians and partisans of an important set of tools: the innuendo and racial code words that function to frighten, divide and conquer the electorate.
 Brian D. Higgins Fort Lee, N.J., March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 William Kristol says he does not want to have a ''heated national conversation about race.'' I was shocked by his tone. Mr. Kristol is a very thoughtful journalist, and I'm sure he didn't mean to come across as dismissive, but he did. 
 I would urge Mr. Kristol to consider the financial crisis we're in. A disproportionately large number of African-Americans were steered toward subprime mortgages, a fact that will be swept under the rug if we avoid such a conversation. I don't think we're better off as a nation if we continue to pretend that we're treating all of our citizens equally.
 Lea Reiter Thousand Oaks, Calif., March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (87%); WRITERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



621 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Small Firms Find Credit Is Tightening

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Lenders' credit woes are starting to take a toll on small businesses.
 Though it may be too early to determine how hard small businesses will be hit, some national surveys show that the businesses are encountering more restrictions at lending institutions, making it harder to get the credit necessary to expand or, in some cases, stay afloat. 
 Last month, a Federal Reserve report found that a third of banks in the United States had tightened their lending standards for small-business loans.
 Soundings of business owners themselves are mixed because credit availability is not uniform across the country. More than half of those responding to the National Small Business Association's online poll two weeks ago replied ''yes'' when asked whether their business had ''been impacted by the credit crunch in recent months.'' But another group, the National Federation of Independent Business, said that more than a third of the members responding to its February survey said they were borrowing normally, and only 4 percent said there was a problem getting a loan. 
 The Small Business Administration has not said publicly that it is worried about a credit squeeze even though the number of business loans made through its main program, called 7 (a), has declined so far this fiscal year by more than 15 percent compared with the period last year. And the dollar value of the loans declined by more than 7 percent. The agency guaranteed some $20.6 billion in such loans in the last fiscal year.
 This month, Steven C. Preston, the agency's administrator, held a closed meeting with major bank executives at the White House to talk about small-business credit. The list of those attending was not made public, but Mr. Preston said afterward, ''We know affordable credit is the lifeline of any business, and we also know banks have been tightening their credit standards.''
 Mr. Preston has been meeting with banks around the country to remind them of federally guaranteed loan offerings, an agency spokeswoman, Christine Mangi, said. 
 But Congressional Democrats have argued that this is far from enough to help small businesses ride out a tumultuous economy.
 ''The S.B.A. should be a major instrument to help small business,'' Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, said in an interview. Instead, he said, the agency has raised fees on loans and cut back on debt counseling for small businesses in economic trouble.
 According to S.B.A. data, more than $1 billion in 7 (a) loans -- the most basic and most used loan type -- were delinquent on Dec. 31, 2007, compared with about $673 million a year earlier. 
 The administration ''has been ignoring data on small-business economic conditions since at least October,'' Mr. Kerry added.
 Advocates for small business argue that it is a mainstay of employment, even in economic downturns. 
 ''What's significant here is that microenterprises continued to create new jobs even during the 2001 recession,'' said Amy McKenna Luz, president of the Association for Enterprise Opportunity, a national organization for small businesses. When the auto, telecommunications and other major industries were laying off people, she said microenterprises (businesses with five or fewer employees) continued to add jobs -- some 4.5 million from 2000 to 2005.
 One small-business owner who has been running into problems obtaining new credit is Tate M. Linden, who opened his marketing consulting business three years ago. Last May, he said, he had no trouble obtaining a $35,000 line of credit for Stokefire, his branding consulting business in Alexandria, Va.
 But when he went back several weeks ago to the same institution to add another $15,000 to his credit line, the answer was no.
 ''We just thought it would be as simple as making a check mark in the box because we have revenues coming in,'' said Mr. Linden, 36.
 When the economy slides, he said, businesses like his do well as companies clamor for expertise to refresh or turn around their image. So he had planned to double his three-employee staff now and then add another four to five people later this year in sales, project management and graphic design. But he halted his hiring plans when he got a formal rejection on grounds he already had ''sufficient credit.''
 Kathy D. Wheeler, chief executive of Community Business Partnership, a nonprofit organization in Springfield, Va., that trains entrepreneurs to start and expand businesses, said Mr. Linden's tale ''shows me there is a lending problem.''
 Sirena C. Moore of Bristol, Pa., said she also had difficulty when she tried to get a line of credit for her company, Elohim Cleaning Contractors, which, she said, took in nearly $2 million last year from asbestos removal and cleanup of construction sites in the Philadelphia area.
 ''The bank said it wanted more credit history,'' said Ms. Moore, 26, whose company started with $3,000 in revenue in 2002. ''But I've never taken out a loan before and I don't own a house. My car is paid because I bought it used.'' 
 She applied for a $250,000 credit line, she said, so the ''company would have a cushion, and I can actually take a real salary, which I've never done because I always have to make sure the crew is paid first.'' 
 She added, ''The banks are happy to give us a lollipop, but nothing when it comes to credit.''
 The trade association for lenders has urged Congress to step in, noting that there is more demand for federally guaranteed loans when credit standards tighten. 
 ''Loan volume is declining at an alarming rate,'' Anthony R. Wilkinson, president of the National Association of Government Guaranteed Lenders, told a House of Representatives hearing on lending this month. ''With each passing week of this fiscal year, the problem is getting worse.''
 Commercial banks like Bank of America insist there has been no change in their lending programs. Even so, a bank spokeswoman, Tara Burke, said, ''Obviously we are being prudent and ensuring that we take the right risks and get paid appropriately for the risks we take.''
 Entrepreneurs who are being squeezed are trying to get smaller loans or looking for alternative financing. Ms. Wheeler of the Community Business Partnership says her group is processing more than twice as many weekly requests for microloans for start-ups as it did a year ago.
 That program has been a target of Bush administration budget-cutting for several years, but Congress has always stepped in to save it. 
 While home equity lines of credit are dicier because of the drop in home valuations, many small-business owners are still using them as well as credit cards, even though they generally have higher interest rates than credit lines or loans.
 Mr. Linden said he planned to explore a smaller federally guaranteed loan to shore up his credit line.
 ''There's a big disconnect between what the big banks are saying on their television and radio ads about meeting small-business needs,'' Mr. Linden said. ''It really comes down to numbers, not relationships.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sirena C. Moore, owner of Elohim Cleaning Contractors in Bristol, Pa., said she had trouble when she tried to get a line of credit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



622 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 FIRST, BECOME PRIME MINISTER. 
 Then, Free All the Judges.
 In his first official steps, Pakistan's brand-new prime minister released the judges detained by President Pervez Musharraf when he imposed emergency rule last year and also said he would seek a formal United Nations inquiry into the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister killed on Dec. 27. PAGE A12
 BODIES OF CONTRACTORS ARE FOUND
 The bodies of two American contractors kidnapped in Iraq more than a year ago have been found, the F.B.I. said, only days after the severed finger of one of the men was sent to American military authorities. The bureau did not say when and where the bodies were found, or anything about their condition. PAGE A11 
 MINE-CLEARERS KILLED IN ATTACKS
 Gunmen killed five members of a mine-clearing team and wounded seven more in northern Afghanistan on Sunday, officials said. Two other mine-clearers were killed Monday in another northern province. All were members of nongovernmental organizations; it was not clear who was behind the killings. PAGE A12
 CHINESE CLAIM BIAS ON TIBET
 Chinese officials, in response to unrest in Tibet, have accused foreign reporters of bias in their coverage and are preventing them from traveling to Tibet or neighboring provinces. The government has also begun a propaganda campaign intended to persuade the public that the Dalai Lama instigated the violence in Tibet. PAGE A7
 SERBIA REACHES FOR KOSOVO
 Serbia proposed dividing newly independent Kosovo along ethnic lines, the culmination of its campaign to entrench control over the northern part of Kosovo, which has a Serbian majority. The move was immediately rebuffed by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leadership in Pristina. PAGE A8
 Bhutan's First Election PAGE A12
 NATIONAL
 TRYING TO MAKE AGING
 Look Like the Thing to Do
 There's a search on to develop new models for what centers for the elderly should include in 21st century, the fear being that, unless they're attractive, baby boomers won't have any part of them. Among the ideas: fitness activities, continuing education on subjects both practical and intellectual, and an environment that doesn't look institutional. PAGE A14
 DODGING FIGURATIVE GUNFIRE
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has backpedaled about her description of running from sniper fire after landing in Bosnia as first lady in 1996. She says she ''misspoke'' -- an admission that came after videotape by CBS News showed her walking calmly across the airport tarmac and stopping to talk with soldiers. PAGE A18
 DETROIT MAYOR IS CHARGED
 Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick of Detroit, whose romantic relationship with a staff member became entangled in a city lawsuit, was charged with eight felony counts, including perjury, obstruction of justice and misconduct in office. Mr. Kilpatrick, once thought of as a rising young Democrat on the move, says he will not resign. PAGE A15
 CALCULATING INNOCENCE
 Despite the occasional claim to the contrary, including by a Supreme Court justice, it's basically impossible to know how many people in prison are innocent. ''That is because any effort to estimate it involves extrapolation from just two numbers, neither one satisfactory,'' Adam Liptak writes in his Sidebar column. PAGE A14
 What's a Legal Search? PAGE A17
 METRO
 CONVICTED IMAM SEEKS EVIDENCE OF WIRETAPPING
 Lawyers for Yassin M. Aref, an Albany imam convicted of supporting terrorism in an F.B.I. sting operation, asked a federal court to release parts of a judge's secret order in the case, which they say may show their client was spied on improperly by the National Security Agency. Page B3 
 SCHOOL DRILLS FOR DIRE SITUATIONS
 In the wake of recent school shootings, the traditional fire drill has been replaced in many New Jersey schools by dry runs for mass shootings, hazardous material spills and bomb threats, as schools and police officials prepare for the most dire situations. Page B1 
 M.T.A. PUTS OFF IMPROVEMENTS
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority postponed $30 million of large and small proposed changes that would have made life easier for many commuters, saying its finances had worsened sharply. Page B1
 CAN A NOVICE PLAY DRAGON-SLAYER?
 In their efforts to unseat Frank Lautenberg, New Jersey's senior United States senator, state Republicans are turning to Andrew Unanue, a 40-year-old political novice who has one attribute they say is crucial to wage a battle against Mr. Lautenberg: a lot of money to finance a campaign. Page B3
 Missing Old Days in Albany Page B1
 State Police Head Nominated Page B3
 BUSINESS
 DRUG MAKER ACCUSED OF FRAUD
 The pharmaceutical company Biovail blamed a quarterly earnings shortfall on a fatal truck accident that destroyed a supply of its depression drug. But both the Securities and Exchange Commission and a Canadian regulator filed a complaint saying that the accident was one of several ways Biovail misled investors about the reasons for the company's poor performance. Page C3 
 IN TAIWAN, A BIG DAY FOR STOCKS
 In the first day of trading after Ma Ying-jeou's election as Taiwan's president, stock prices in the country soared. That jump was on top of a 4.5 percent rise last week in anticipation of the election of Mr. Ma, who vowed to open Taiwan to mainland Chinese tourism to spur the island's lagging economy. Page c3 
 SPORTS
 ANOTHER CHANCE AT THE GOLD,
 Running for a New Country
 For four years Bernard Lagat has replayed the 1,500 meter final at the 2004 Athens Olympics, and each time he has lost by 12 hundredths of a second. But then, he was representing his native Kenya. Today, he represents the United States. And he will be a favorite in the 1,500 meters and the 5,000 meters at the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing. PAGE D1
 RUTGER'S TRIUMPHS IN DES MOINES
 Rutgers University's Scarlet Knights' 69-to-58 victory over the Des Moines Cyclones, was expected, but no less sweet for it. After an initial lead, the Cyclones were left behind by an 8 point run that put Rutgers firmly ahead and a step closer to a covetted spot in this year's Final Four. Page D1 
 MORE EYES ON CHINA
 Say that in 1995 you bid, on behalf of your television network, $894 million for rights to broadcast the 2008 Summer Olympic Games. Say that, about six years later, Beijing was named the host city. And say you are keeping close tabs on the goings-on in China of late. How do you feel? PAGE D2
 A NEW GOLF CHAMPION
 No one realistically expected Tiger Woods to keep winning forever. Jeff Ogilvy made sure he wouldn't, capturing the rain-delayed W.G.C.-CA Championship at the Doral Resort & Spa with nine consecutive pars. Woods's 68 left him two back and his streak stopped at seven. PAGE D6
 SCIENCE TIMES
 BATS ARE PERISHING,
 The Cause Is a Mystery
 About 90 percent of the hibernating bats in four caves and mines in New York have died since last winter, with fears of more elsewhere in the state and in Massachusetts and Vermont. One expert said that ''this may be the most serious threat to North American bats we've experienced in recorded history,'' and no one knows the cause. PAGE F1
 AND WHAT'S DOING IN THE FROGS?
 Harlequin frogs have been dying off at such a rate that they're mainly seen now in zoos, and last year a research team identified global warming as the ''trigger.'' Not everyone was convinced, though, and other researchers are now blaming a fungus. Still others say neither group has the definitive answer. PAGE F4
 THE VOICE OF COSMIC WONDER
 The world at large may know Arthur C. Clarke best as the co-creator of that movie with a fearsomely bad-guy computer named Hal. But Dennis Overbye writes that Clarke was more than a sci-fi writer: ''To space fans and perpetual adolescents everywhere he was simply the deceptively dry voice of cosmic wonder.'' And, on a personal level, ''a distant grandfather of sorts.'' PAGE F1
 DECIDING WHO GETS TO LIVE
 A new report says it's not too early to start thinking about the hard choices a public health disaster could force, including decisions on who will and who won't get life-support measures like ventilators. Implicit is the likelihood that some people placed on the machines might later have to be removed, raising assorted ethical and clinical issues. PAGE F1
 STARTING THE DAY RIGHT
 You've heard the Adelle Davis saying: Eat breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, and dinner like a pauper. The breakfast advice is the most fun to adhere to, and, sure enough, a new study shows that teenagers who ate that meal were less likely to put on as much weight. PAGE F5
 Melanoma Safeguards PAGE F2
 Elusive Diagnoses PAGE F6
 Grapefruit and Breast Cancer PAGE F5 
 OBITUARIES
 NEIL ASPINALL
 Starting as the Beatles' road manager even before the group adopted a certain drummer named Ringo, he went on to manage the band's production and management company, Apple, and to acclaim by George Harrison as the fifth Beatle, Mr. Aspinall died Sunday in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Twickenham, England. PAGE B6
 AL COPELAND
 A poor boy from New Orleans who marshaled gumption, perspicacity and a fiery fried-chicken recipe to emerge as a flamboyant millionaire with famously fast speedboats and successive business empires, he died on Sunday near Munich, Germany. He was 64. PAGE B7
 ARTS 
 A WORLD OF RUTHLESS INVESTORS,
 Devious Traders and Thugs
 In ''The Finder,'' Michiko Kakutani writes, Colin Harrison has produced ''a grisly page turner of a novel that lacquers its cheap thrills with an upscale literary veneer, even as it leaves the reader with some memorably visceral snapshots of a nervous, profligate New York City, barreling headlong into the new millennium.'' PAGE E1
 BEFORE THE BRIDGE
 New video releases include ''The Dragon Painter'' (1919), a vivid reminder that Sessue Hayakawa had established Hollywood stardom long before his turn as the scowling Japanese prison camp commander in ''The Bridge on the River Kwai.'' PAGE E3
 BACK NEAR THE SPOTLIGHTS
 Joseph Volpe worked his way up at the Metropolitan Opera from stagehand to general manager, where he spent 16 memorable years before retiring in 2006 and more or less disappearing. Now he has resurfaced at a leading theater design consulting firm, saying he's ready to be more of a team player. PAGE E1
 TRYING TO REVIVE 'GOOSEBUMPS'
 After eight years spent trying his hand at other creations, R. L. Stine is back with a new installation of ''Goosebumps,'' his children's horror series, trying to recapture the momentum. ''Maybe it'll be hard to do a second time,'' he says. ''Maybe it'll happen again. Right now I don't know.'' PAGE E1
 'Autism: The Musical' PAGE E6
 EDITORIAL
 PAIN AT THE PUMP AND BEYOND
 If any good can come out of $3.28 a gallon gasoline, it would be an understanding -- by corporations, consumers and government -- that the era of cheap oil is truly over. That is the first step toward a real energy strategy. PAGE A26
 THE CENSUS AT 'HIGH RISK'
 The 2010 Census is in trouble. It needs more money and stronger leadership -- now. PAGE A26
 MORE ON EX-GOVERNOR SPITZER
 With each revelation about the way former Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York operated while in office, our disappointment with the man and his methods grows. PAGE A26
 OP-ED
 DAVID BROOKS
 Hillary Clinton's presidential prospects continue to dim. The door is closing. Night is coming. The end, however, is not near. PAGE A27
 BOB HERBERT
 Far more people will see the endless loop of Barack Obama's frenzied former pastor than will ever read or hear the sober, thoughtful, constructive words of the senator himself. PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LANDMINES (76%); FELONIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MEDIA BIAS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); AGING (62%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%); DALAI LAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) SERBIA (96%); CHINA (94%); TIBET (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BHUTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



623 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: For G.O.P. Moderates, Hope in a Newcomer

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Forget about slaying dragons.
 New Jersey's Republicans are having a difficult enough time trying to knock off someone they say is a dinosaur -- 84-year-old Frank Lautenberg, the state's senior United States senator, who has given every indication he plans to run for re-election, despite the public's wariness. 
 No sooner had the most mainstream candidate dropped out of the Republican race this month than two counterpunchers from the party's conservative flank began lacerating each other. 
 Now Andrew Unanue, a 40-year-old political novice who is a former chief operating officer at his family's business, Goya Foods, is hoping to make a late splash. And although Mr. Unanue, who owned a Manhattan nightclub, has been photographed far more often with socialites than with senators, he does have one attribute that the Republican establishment says is crucial to wage a battle against Mr. Lautenberg: a lot of money to finance a campaign.
 ''He's the only one who can raise the money necessary to defeat Senator Lautenberg,'' said Mark Campbell, a Republican political consultant who sounded ebullient at the idea of Mr. Unanue (pronounced you-NAN-away).''Unanue could spark a potential rebirth of the Republican Party in New Jersey, his potential is that great.''
 Whether the fortunes of a cash-strapped party that has lost every statewide election since 1997 can be revived by Mr. Unanue, a resident of Alpine, a wealthy pocket in Bergen County, who has never held public office is a large imponderable. But with an April 7 primary deadline approaching, some Republicans have been itching, almost obsessively, to attract a moderate candidate to fill the place of Anne Estabrook, a wealthy real estate developer who dropped out this month after suffering a minor stroke.
 Hardly a day has passed since Ms. Estabrook's withdrawal without rumor of a possible candidate, preferably one with deep pockets, taking on the two remaining candidates from the conservative wing of the party, State Senator Joseph Pennacchio, a dentist and veteran legislator from Morris County, and Murray Sabrin, a finance professor at Ramapo College who ran unsuccessfully for the Senate in 2000.
 After initially throwing up their hands in the face of an anticipated Democratic rout at the polls in November, there has been a clear sign that Mr. Lautenberg is vulnerable. His recent poll numbers have been underwhelming, with one survey finding that while a plurality of residents approved of the senator's performance, 58 percent preferred that someone else be elected. 
 At the same time, Republicans are suddenly buoyed by the prospect of having Senator John McCain ensconced at the top of the presidential ticket while Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton bicker over the Democratic nomination.
 ''Maybe the hope is that this guy lights a fire,'' Virginia Littell, a former chairwoman of the state's Republican Party, said, referring to Mr. Unanue. 
 The search has been so frantic that the state Democratic Party sent a snide e-mail message to reporters shortly after Mr. Unanue told Republican leaders Sunday night of his intention to run.
 ''HELP WANTED: A political party in disarray seeks handpicked, party-sanctioned candidate for the U.S. Senate,'' the parody began.
 It went on to say that no political experience was necessary, and that ''the successful applicant must pay his or her own way,'' before spelling out what the Democrats said was ''the desperation factor.''
 Not surprisingly, the cutting message chose not to acknowledge that the current Democratic governor, Jon S. Corzine, who won that office and his United States Senate seat before that by spending a total of more than $100 million of his own money.
 For his part, Mr. Unanue said in an interview on Monday that his business background was well-suited to the economic challenges ahead. Praising Ms. Estabrook as a ''great candidate,'' he said he had enlisted her political operatives to jump-start his candidacy.
 ''I was approached by several people, and the more and more I looked into it, the more I saw I could hopefully help by being in the Senate, help our economy get back,'' he said. 
 Mr. Unanue's Republican opponents wasted no time questioning his credentials. For instance, they said that in addition to his home in Alpine, Mr. Unanue owned an apartment in New York City, on Central Park West. Others cited court documents and old newspaper articles noting that in 2004, his cousins ousted him from his position at Goya, citing ''concerns about his professionalism.''
 Mr. Sabrin -- referring to AER Lounge, the club Mr. Unanue owned in Manhattan's meatpacking district -- dismissed him as a ''slick playboy nightclub owner.''
 And Mr. Pennacchio said that Mr. Unanue's candidacy could backfire against Republicans desperate to find another wealthy candidate.
 ''It's Einstein theory of insanity,'' he said. ''You do the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result?''
 Then again, some Republicans have privately been cringing at the prospect of Mr. Sabrin or Mr. Pennacchio being their standard-bearer in November.
 When Mr. Sabrin ran for governor as a Libertarian in 1997, he was dismissed by Tom Wilson, now the state Republican Party chairman, as ''the Lyndon LaRouche of New Jersey.'' 
 More recently, Mr. Pennacchio has been defending a 94-page manifesto that he wrote almost 20 years ago advocating for a new ''Nationalist Party.'' What he called a blueprint inspired by Ronald Reagan, Mr. Sabrin has labeled a fascist document.
 For now, Mr. Lautenberg has chosen to sit back, watch the scrum and act senatorial.
 As a spokesman for Mr. Lautenberg, Scott Mulhauser, put it: ''While the Republicans decide on their nominee, Senator Lautenberg will continue his work to improve our economy, make health care more affordable, protect a woman's right to choose and bring our troops home from Iraq.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the candidacy of Andrew Unanue, a political novice who moderate Republicans in New Jersey say has the best chance to defeat Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat and the state's senior United States senator, gave the wrong year in some editions for a bid by Murray Sabrin, a conservative Republican candidate for the Senate seat, for governor as a Libertarian. It was 1997, not 2000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Senator Joseph Pennacchio, left, and Murray Sabrin are conservative Republicans.
 Andrew Unanue has the wealth to finance a campaign.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN WELLS/THE GLOUCESTER COUNTY TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); REAL ESTATE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



624 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Pain at the Pump and Beyond

 BODY:
The surge in the price of energy couldn't come at a worse time. The average price nationally of regular gasoline has shot up to a record $3.28 a gallon. Combine that with the collapse of the housing market and the seizing financial sector, and it is putting a boot to the gut of an economy that is either already in a recession or close to one. 
 The Bush administration can't be entirely blamed for the pain at the gas pump. But its shortsighted energy policies -- zealously focused on increasing the energy supply, with little attention paid to conservation and greater fuel-efficiency -- means the country is far too dependent on oil that is both ruinously expensive and ruinous for the environment. 
 There are several reasons for oil's dizzying price spiral. Soaring demand in fast-growing developing countries like China and India means there is little oil to spare. The turmoil in financial markets -- the White House can take a good chunk of the blame for that -- has driven prices even higher, as investors have bought oil and other commodities as stocks and the dollar plunge.
 Meanwhile, President Bush's strategy for ensuring that the nation's energy security is focused on one thing: getting more oil by drilling in the Arctic and sending Vice President Dick Cheney to ask his Saudi friends to pump more. Neither could ever produce enough. 
 Not everyone is unhappy with oil at $100-plus a barrel. Authoritarian governments in Iran, Venezuela, Sudan and Russia are pocketing the profits and enjoying the political impunity that comes with such riches.
 At home, the news is bad and getting worse. Consumer prices rose more than 4 percent in the past year, largely because of rising energy costs. Americans have started to reduce spending on other consumer goods, which is weakening the economy. The risk of inflation leaves the Federal Reserve with less room to maneuver. 
 If any good can come out of this mess, it would be an understanding -- by corporations, consumers and government -- that the era of cheap oil is truly over. With that, the country could finally focus on developing clean alternative energy sources and reducing oil consumption, a strategy that has served other countries well.
 Take cars. Until last December, Republican and Democratic administrations had refused to raise fuel-efficiency standards for 30 years. And raising the puny gasoline tax remains a political nonstarter. By contrast, in Britain, gas at the pump costs around $7.70 a gallon, of which about $4.90 are taxes. In France, taxes account for about $4.60 of the retail price of $7.50 a gallon. Unsurprisingly, their cars get much better gas mileage than the guzzlers still popular in the United States. 
 Higher taxes on energy mean other rich countries are more energy-efficient across the board. The average German or Japanese uses little more than half the energy consumed by an average American. In Germany and Japan, per-capita emissions of carbon dioxide spewed by cars, power plants and other sources of energy are half those in the United States. In France, they are a third. 
 Americans are beginning to curb consumption. Gasoline demand declined in the first 11 weeks of the year for the first time since 1997. But it is far too little, and government policy is lagging far behind the problem. 
 The landmark energy bill passed in December tightened fuel standards for the first time since 1975 -- demanding a 40 percent increase in cars' and light trucks' average fuel-efficiency by 2020. Still, the Department of Energy estimates that by 2022, the new standards would have reduced gasoline consumption by about only two million barrels a day, which amounts to a 17 percent cut in projected gasoline consumption. 
 A lot more needs to be done to prepare the American economy for a world of scarcer, more expensive energy. To start, the nation has to replace the oilmen in the White House with leaders who have a better grasp of the economics of energy and the interests of all Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); FUEL TAX (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARCTIC (72%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



625 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Calls for $30 Billion for Home Mortgage Crisis

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Larry Rohter contributed reporting from Chula Vista, Calif.

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton returned to one of her major campaign themes Monday -- the economic impact of the home mortgage crisis -- and called on Congress to provide $30 billion to help states and communities lessen the number of foreclosures.
 In a speech at the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Clinton proposed several other moves to deal with foreclosures, like tapping two former chairmen of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan and Paul A. Volcker, and former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, to lead a ''high-level emergency working group'' to recommend ways to restructure at-risk mortgages to help avert more foreclosures. 
 Her speech comes as the mortgage crisis continues to ripple across the economy, threatening the homes of millions of Americans and endangering some of the nation's leading financial institutions that helped finance these now-troubled mortgages. 
 As much as she focused on ways to ease the mortgage crisis, Senator Clinton also dwelled on what she called ''a crisis of confidence in our country,'' and portrayed herself as the candidate best able to address the economic problems of middle-income and economically struggling families.
 ''We need a president who can restore our confidence,'' she said. ''We need a president who is ready on Day 1 to be commander in chief of our economy.''
 For more than a year, both Mrs. Clinton and her rival, Senator Barack Obama, have been proposing ideas to prevent the widening of the mortgage foreclosure crisis through more active government intervention to aid at-risk homeowners. In returning to that theme Monday, almost four weeks before the Pennsylvania primary on April 22, she appeared to be trying to persuade voters that she would be a take-charge leader focused on results -- in contrast to Mr. Obama, whom she has criticized as offering high-minded, eloquent speeches instead of policy ideas.
 Although Senator Clinton is in a tough battle for the Democratic nomination with Mr. Obama, and her recent remarks have included sharp criticisms of him, she did not mention Mr. Obama Monday, -- only implicitly contrasting herself with him by arguing that she was the better equipped candidate to manage the economy.
 Even so, Mr. Obama's campaign quickly issued a statement noting that he had urged the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department to hold a ''homeownership preservation summit'' -- an idea, an Obama spokesman said, that was akin to Mrs. Clinton's emergency working group.
 ''One key difference, however, is the diversity and representation that Obama called for -- not just some of the same people who helped to create these problems or have a direct financial industry stake in the outcome,'' said Bill Burton, the Obama spokesman, referring to Mr. Rubin and Mr. Greenspan, who some critics have said was responsible for overseeing the spread of lax lending standards that caused the subprime crisis.
 Mrs. Clinton mixed several gloomy housing statistics with criticisms of President Bush, whom she characterized as a passive leader and belittled by asserting that, unlike him, she would be a president ''working to prevent crises rather than just reacting too little too late.'' Also in her plan, Mrs. Clinton endorsed federal legislation to expand the government's ability to guarantee restructured mortgages, which she believes would lead more banks and other private entities to buy and resell mortgages.
 And she said she would introduce legislation soon to provide mortgage servicers with protection from litigation when they modified mortgages; Mrs. Clinton asserted that some servicers stayed away from mortgage restructuring because they feared being sued by unhappy homeowners.
 In his first public event since returning from a trip to the Middle East and Europe, Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, renewed his insistence on seeing the war in Iraq through until a victory was achieved, and said he had seen clear signs of progress there. ''If we set a date for withdrawal,'' as Senators Clinton and Obama have argued, ''all will be lost and there will be chaos and genocide,'' he predicted. 
 ''Compared to where we were a year ago, we are succeeding in Iraq,'' Mr. McCain said at a brief town hall meeting on Monday afternoon at a Veterans of Foreign Wars post in Chula Vista, Calif. Al Qaeda, he said, though not defeated, ''is on the run,'' but Democrats ''have tried to raise the white flag of surrender time and time again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton delivered a speech Monday at the University of Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator John McCain spoke at a town hall meeting on Monday in Chula Vista, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



626 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: With a Powerful Speech, Obama Offers a Challenge

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Barack Obama was on the phone, speaking about the one issue he had not wanted to focus on in his campaign: race.
 He had just given his speech on race in Philadelphia and was expanding a little on the need to get past the endless back and forth on this toxic and frustrating issue. He said he had hoped in his speech to accurately describe the ''chasm of misunderstanding'' that continues to foster racial division, and to offer a way to ''get out of that situation.''
 The speech, which has gotten wonderful reviews, should be required reading in classrooms across the country -- and in as many other venues as possible. With a worldview that embraces both justice and healing, Senator Obama is better on these issues than any American leader since King. 
 Unfortunately, what is more likely to happen is that the essence of the speech will be lost in the din that inevitably erupts whenever there is a racial controversy in the United States. 
 The fundamental message that Senator Obama is trying to get across is that the racial madness that has perverted so many elections needs to stop -- and stop now. Time and again, that madness has been employed to undermine efforts to create what the senator characterizes as ''a more just, more equal, more free, more caring and more prosperous America.''
 Racial prejudice, ignorance, hostility -- whatever -- has caused millions of Americans to vote against their own economic interests, and for policies that have damaged the country.
 ''It's hard to address big issues,'' Mr. Obama told me, ''if we're easily diverted or distracted by racial antagonism.''
 Far more people will see the endless loop of Senator Obama's frenzied former pastor than will ever read or hear the sober, thoughtful, constructive words of the senator himself.
 The Philadelphia speech was obviously political, designed to limit the damage that the sermons by the Rev. Jeremiah Wright were inflicting on Mr. Obama's campaign. But the theme of the speech was both legitimate and powerful, and it ought to resonate with fair-minded Americans, regardless of whether they support Mr. Obama for president.
 ''We have a choice in this country,'' the senator said in his speech. ''We can accept a politics that breeds division and conflict and cynicism.''
 Or, he said, Americans could move in a different direction. ''At this moment, in this election, we can come together and say, 'Not this time.' This time, we want to talk about the crumbling schools that are stealing the future of black children and white children and Asian children and Hispanic children and Native-American children. ... 
 ''This time, we want to talk about how lines in the emergency room are filled with whites and blacks and Hispanics who do not have health care. ... This time, we want to talk about the shuttered mills that once provided a decent life for men and women of every race, and the homes for sale that once belonged to Americans from every religion, every region, every walk of life.''
 The great challenges this country continues to face -- challenges linked to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the threat of terror, a failing economy, climate change, and on and on -- cannot be solved, Mr. Obama said, in an environment riven by divisiveness and hostility.
 Listening to Senator Obama's speech, it wasn't Dr. King who first came to mind but Bobby Kennedy, standing on a flatbed truck in Indianapolis on a cold, windy night in April 1968. Kennedy had to tell a crowd that had gathered to hear him speak that King had been murdered.
 A gasp of horror and grief rose into the cold night air. Most of those in the crowd were black.
 ''In this difficult time for the United Sates,'' said Kennedy, ''it is perhaps well to ask what kind of a nation we are and what direction we want to move in. For those of you who are black ... you can be filled with bitterness, with hatred and a desire for revenge. We can move in that direction as a country, in great polarization -- black people amongst black, white people amongst white, filled with hatred toward one another.
 ''Or we can make an effort, as Martin Luther King did, to understand and to comprehend, and to replace that violence, that stain of bloodshed that has spread across our land, with an effort to understand with compassion and love.''
 The nation can be proud of the distance it has traveled since 1968. But there are still millions peering fearfully or angrily across the chasm of misunderstanding. Politics aside, Senator Obama's speech is an excellent place from which to start the difficult work of bridging that divide. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



627 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Test: Can a Liberal Be a Unifier?

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At the core of Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign is a promise that he can transcend the starkly red-and-blue politics of the last 15 years, end the partisan and ideological wars and build a new governing majority.
 To achieve the change the country wants, he says, ''we need a leader who can finally move beyond the divisive politics of Washington and bring Democrats, independents and Republicans together to get things done.'' 
 But this promise leads, inevitably, to a question: Can such a majority be built and led by Mr. Obama, whose voting record was, by one ranking, the most liberal in the Senate last year?
 Also, and more immediately, if Mr. Obama wins the Democratic nomination, how will his promise of a new and less polarized type of politics fare against the Republican attacks that since the 1980s have portrayed Democrats as far out of step with the country's values? 
 To many political strategists, the furor over the racial views of Mr. Obama's former pastor is only the first of many such tests the senator will face if he is the nominee. 
 Mr. Obama, in an interview that was conducted on March 15, in the midst of that controversy, said he was confident that Americans were eager for a new kind of politics and were convinced that ''a lot of these old labels don't apply anymore.'' 
 He said he was a progressive and a pragmatist, eager to tackle the big issues like health care and convinced that the Democrats could -- and should -- rally independents and disaffected Republicans to their agenda. Only then, he said, could the party achieve what it has so rarely won in modern presidential elections: a mandate to do big things.
 ''Senator Clinton's argument in this campaign,'' he said, ''has really been that you can't change the electoral map, that it's a static map and we are inalterably divided, so we've got to eke out a victory and then try to govern more competently than George Bush has. My argument is that if that's what we're settling for, after seven or eight years of disastrous policies on the part of the Bush administration, then we're not going to deliver on the big changes that are needed.'' 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has worked hard in the Senate to moderate her liberal image and forge working relationships with Republicans. But with her husband's tumultuous presidency still fresh in some voters' minds, she is often cast as a hyperpartisan Democrat who would try to achieve her ends by beating the Republicans at the same brutal (and often futile) competition that has dominated Washington for years.
 Mr. Obama's rise has been built in part on the idea that he represents a break from the established identities that have defined many of the nation's divisions. To many, he embodies a promise to bridge black and white, old and young, rich and poor -- and Democrats, Republicans and independents. 
 Even so, Mr. Obama does not come to the campaign with a reputation as one of the most accommodating bridge-builders in the Senate. And while he promises a very different politics from Mrs. Clinton, their voting records in the Senate last year were not strikingly different. 
 A recent analysis of key votes by The National Journal concluded that Mr. Obama had the Senate's most liberal voting record in 2007; Mrs. Clinton ranked 16th. But of the 267 measures on which both senators voted, the National Journal analysis found that they differed on only 10. One of their major differences came on an amendment that called for the designation of the Revolutionary Guards in Iran as a terrorist organization; while Mrs. Clinton supported it, Mr. Obama missed the vote, but said he opposed it. 
 Congressional Quarterly said Mr. Obama voted with his party 97 percent of the time on party-line votes last year; Mrs. Clinton did so 98 percent of the time. 
 But it is Mr. Obama who is running on a promise of a new approach to politics. Given that, he says he understands the criticism of his voting record, but argues that the Senate is so ideologically polarized it is hard not to end up on one side or the other. 
 ''The only votes that come up are votes that are purposely designed to divide people,'' he said. ''It's true that if I'm presented with a series of votes like that, I'm more likely to fall left of center than right of center. But as president, I would be setting the terms of debate.''
 Mr. Obama seems to be promising less a split-the-difference centrism than an ability to harness the support of all those voters who yearn for something new, beyond the ideological stalemate. In his book ''The Audacity of Hope,'' he wrote, ''They are out there, waiting for Republicans and Democrats to catch up with them.''
 In many ways, the Obama campaign is challenging the fundamental political premise that has prevailed in Washington for more than a generation: that any majority coalition must be carefully centrist, if not center-right. Bill Clinton ran in 1992 as a candidate willing to break with liberal orthodoxy on many issues, including crime and welfare, and eager to move the party -- which had lost five of the six previous presidential elections -- to the middle. Mr. Clinton's New Democrats assumed a certain level of conservatism among voters. 
 Mr. Obama and his allies are basing his campaign on a different bet: that the right-leaning political landscape Mr. Clinton confronted has changed. Several major Democratic strategists, and outside analysts as well, argue that the country has shifted to the left because of the Iraq war, the economy and seven-plus years of President Bush, and that it has become open to a new progressive majority. 
 Mr. Obama said: ''What I'm certain about is that people are disenchanted with a highly ideological Republican Party that believes tax cuts are the answer to every problem, and lack of regulation and oversight is always going to generate economic growth, and unilateral intervention around the world is the best approach to foreign policy. So there's no doubt the pendulum is swinging.''
 Still, he added: ''The Democrats have to seize this opportunity by showing people in very practical terms how a different set of policies can deliver solutions that will actually make a difference in their lives. I think the jury is still out right now.''
 Mark Penn, the chief strategist for Mrs. Clinton, said Mr. Obama's Senate career did not back up his promise of being able to forge a new governing coalition across party lines.
 ''It's a great promise,'' Mr. Penn said. ''But are the actions consistent with the words? I don't see it.'' 
 Still, many of Mr. Obama's supporters say he has recognized this new political climate in a way that Mrs. Clinton has not. They say he is ready for a new, self-assured era in which progressives (few have returned to using the word ''liberal'') make no apologies about their goals -- universal health care, withdrawing troops from Iraq, ending tax breaks for more affluent Americans -- and assume that a broad swath of the public shares them.
 Mrs. Clinton, on the other hand, often displays the wariness of Democrats who came of political age in the Reagan era, when the party was constantly on the defensive. As The New Republic recently put it, ''Clintonism is a political strategy that assumes a skeptical public; Obamaism is a way of actualizing a latent ideological majority.''
 Mr. Obama significantly outperformed Mrs. Clinton among independents in the coast-to-coast nominating contests on Feb. 5, and in several other key contests. But can that transpartisan appeal be sustained? He has only begun to take some hard political hits -- from the Clinton campaign, from conservative commentators and radio hosts, and from the campaign of Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican nominee. 
 So far, Republicans give every indication of planning to portray Mr. Obama as just another big-government liberal. 
 ''When you're rated by National Journal as to the left of Ted Kennedy and Bernie Sanders, that's going to be difficult to explain,'' said Danny Diaz, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee. 
 Mr. Obama insists that while his core values are progressive, he himself is not ideological. His policy differences with Mrs. Clinton are limited, and his proposals are solidly in the mainstream of Democratic thought. 
 In the interview, for example, he argued that his proposals on health care and the economy, which call for a stronger government role and more regulation, were really about what works.
 ''I'm interested in solving problems as opposed to imposing doctrine,'' he said. ''I see a lot of convergence of interests among people who in traditional terms are considered to be divided politically.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama, before Congressional Democrats in 2006, had the Senate's most liberal voting record in 2007, by one ranking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



628 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: New Investor In Distressed Mortgages Gets Backers

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
BlackRock, the publicly traded asset manager, and a hedge fund firm, Highfields Capital Management, are backing a new company seeking to raise $2 billion to buy delinquent residential mortgages.
 Private National Mortgage Acceptance will be run by Stanford L. Kurland, former president of Countrywide Financial Corporation, the largest American home-loan provider, the companies said Monday in a statement. BlackRock and Highfields will take stakes in the company, called PennyMac, and contribute to its mortgage investment funds. Terms were not disclosed. 
 PennyMac will try to work out loans that homeowners have stopped making payments on or that are expected to fall into delinquency. It will focus on whole mortgages, or those that have not been packaged into pools of debt known as residential mortgage-backed securities. It is one of fewer than 10 funds working on whole loans; more than 60 buy securitized mortgages.
 ''There has been intense market focus on write-downs of mortgage-related securities, but whole-loan losses have barely begun to materialize,'' Jonathon S. Jacobson, co-founder and senior managing director of Boston-based Highfields, said in the statement.
 PennyMac, based in Calabasas, Calif., will raise money from investors to buy mortgages from companies looking to reduce their holdings of bad loans. New home foreclosures rose to a record 0.83 percent of all loans in the fourth quarter, from 0.54 percent a year earlier, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 The $11 trillion American home mortgage market needs about $1 trillion in new investment to halt a slide in prices for loans and related bonds that began last year. It continues as banks and investment funds shed assets to pay off debt, according to a report from an investment bank, Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company, this month.
 ''We have the capability of holding the mortgages and assets through a recession, should that occur,'' Mr. Kurland said Monday in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
 Mr. Kurland left Countrywide in 2006. Countrywide, which agreed in January to be bought by Bank of America for about $4 billion in stock, lost $703.5 million in 2007, its first annual loss in more than 30 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BLACKROCK INC (92%); PRIVATE NATIONAL MORTGAGE ACCEPTANCE CO LLC (90%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BLK (NYSE) (92%); AI (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



629 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NOVY URENGOI JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Ivory for the Taking, From Beasts Well Beyond Caring

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: NOVY URENGOI, Russia 

 BODY:
As Viktor Seliverstov works in his makeshift studio in this Siberian town, he is enveloped in a cloud of ivory dust. His electric carving tool whirs over the milky surface of the teeth and tusks, as he whittles them into key fobs, knife handles and scrimshaw figurines. 
 But these are not whale bones or walrus tusks he is working on. The ivory in this part of the world comes from the remains of extinct woolly mammoths, as their remains emerge from the tundra where they have been frozen for thousands of years. It is a traditional Russian business that had all but gone extinct itself during the Soviet period, but is flourishing now. 
 ''A lot of people find ivory and don't know what to do with it,'' Mr. Seliverstov said of the residents of this town, where more than a few closets and old barns have a tusk or two in them. 
 Mr. Seliverstov recently paid $500 for about 16 pounds of mammoth ivory from a family that had stashed it in a barn for years before realizing its value. 
 The trade, given a lift recently by global warming, which has melted away the tundra and exposed more frozen remains, is not only legal but actually endorsed by conservationists. They note somewhat grudgingly that while the survival of elephants may be in question, it is already too late for mammoths. Mammoth ivory from Siberia, they say, meets some of the Asian demand for illegal elephant ivory, and its trade should be encouraged. 
 The business of ice age ivory, a mainstay in Siberia since the 17th century, was further helped by the international ban imposed on the elephant ivory trade in 1989. Russian exports of mammoth ivory -- the only type of ivory legally imported into the United States -- reached 40 tons last year, up from just 2 tons in 1989, said Aleksei Tikhonov, the director of the Zoological Museum in St. Petersburg and an expert on mammoths. 
 While prices vary, leading dealers in Moscow usually ask $150 to $200 a pound for average-grade ivory. By the time it reaches Western markets, the same ivory can sell for as much as $800 a pound, dealers say.
 The sources are varied, though reindeer herders, oil and gas workers and professional ivory hunters provide the bulk of the supply.
 ''They gather tusks like mushrooms after the rain, literally,'' Mr. Tikhonov said. 
 While mammoth tusks may not be as valuable as Russia's deposits of oil and natural gas, they are plentiful. The Siberian permafrost blankets millions of square miles, ranging in depth from a few feet to more than a mile and resembling frozen spinach.
 Hidden in one of the upper layers of this mass, corresponding to the Pleistocene Epoch, are the remains of an estimated 150 million mammoths. Some are frozen whole, as if in suspended animation, others in bits and pieces of bone, tusk, tissue and wool. 
 Woolly mammoths are actually the last of three extinct elephantine species that inhabited Siberia. They appeared about 400,000 years ago and lasted at least until 3,600 years ago -- the age of some mammoth remains found on an island off the northern coast of the Russian region of Chukotka in 1993. 
 The tusks emerge with the spring thaw or after heavy rains, or along the eroding banks of rivers. A boom in gas and oil investment has added another source, as crews dig wells and pipeline ditches. Fresh from the permafrost, mammoth ivory is nearly pristine, though with a characteristic green patina. But if left outside and exposed to the elements, it will disintegrate within three years into worthless splinters. 
 That is another point in favor of the mammoth ivory trade, said Mr. Tikhonov, the Russian mammoth expert. It encourages the gathering of tusks that would otherwise be lost. In fact, he said, vastly more mammoth ivory is destroyed in this natural cycle in Russia than is ever found and sold, perhaps hundreds of tons of ivory per year. 
 Gary Haynes, a paleoanthropologist at the University of Nevada, Reno, said he could not help cringing at seeing the tusks destroyed. In their growth rings and possible prehistoric human butcher marks, they hold a wealth of data on the ancient climate and peoples of Siberia that could shed light on, among other things, the debate about whether climate change or overhunting, or both, felled the mammoths. 
 ''There's a kind of discomfort when you're a scientist and you see something that could have scientific value being carved up and destroyed,'' Mr. Haynes said in a telephone interview. ''But this is the trade-off. I see the businessman's arguments, too. Mammoths are already extinct, and people need an economy.''
 In addition, the Russian government examines the tusks to make sure none bearing signs of ancient disease, prehistoric human markings or other scientifically valuable elements are exported. 
 About 90 percent of the Siberian ivory that is recovered is exported to Asia, where it is principally used in the manufacture of personal seals that in Japan, China and South Korea are used in place of signatures for business transactions. These seals support much of the Siberian industry. 
 While tusks are plentiful on the surface, whole frozen mammoths are not. They are also not exported. Most recently, a Nenets herdsman discovered a frozen calf on the Yamal Peninsula last May. It has been named Lyuba and is kept in a freezer in Mr. Tikhonov's museum in St. Petersburg. Scientists are sampling its tissue for a scientific effort to sequence the mammoth genome. 
 Mr. Tikhonov dismissed cloning as improbable, though gene splicing could be used to add mammoth characteristics to Asian elephants, he said. 
 Mr. Seliverstov, the ivory carver, said he had no compunctions about working with a prehistoric resource. ''People will treasure my art for generations,'' he said. ''I give the mammoths a second life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Viktor Seliverstov carves a figurine from a mammoth tusk in Novy Urengoi, in Siberia. Museums, like this one in town displaying a replica of a calf mammoth, are not the sole province of the prehistoric beasts. Their parts can be found in the thawing tundra, and in more than a few local closets. Mr. Seliverstov paid $500 for 16 pounds of mammoth ivory from a family that had it for years before realizing its worth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Mammoth tusks turn up in barns in Novy Urengoi. Map of Novy Urengoi, Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); FROZEN FOODS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



630 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TheBusinessOfGreen; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: A Family Utility, Up on the Roof

BYLINE: By PETER MALONEY

 BODY:
WITH the price of oil at historical highs and concerns about energy security and global warming intensifying, many people are looking for ways to make a personal contribution to cutting oil imports and shrinking carbon emissions. 
 In mid-2004, the Roth-Irwin family of Nyack, N.Y., decided to do something. The first step was easy. They responded to an ad in the local newspaper placed by ISI Solar, also of Nyack, which sells and installs commercial and residential solar power systems. 
 James Albert, ISI Solar's owner, came to the family's house and conducted an appraisal. He walked around, measuring the house and checking the roof's orientation (south-facing is best), its pitch (33 degrees is optimal in the New York region) and how much shade falls on it. 
 ''Shading can be a deal killer,'' Mr. Albert said. If more than 25 percent of a roof is shaded, he said, ''we can't recommend a solar system.'' 
 He also looked over the family's electricity bills for the past year and examined solar radiation data for the area from the federal Department of Energy. Seven months later, photovoltaic panels were up on the roof and producing solar power. 
 Mr. Albert installed a 3.3-kilowatt system on the house's south-facing roof. That is smaller than the average solar installation in New York State, which is about five kilowatts, but still large enough to generate 3,600 kilowatt hours a year, or enough electricity to offset about 60 percent of the household's electricity use. 
 ISI Solar also ran interference for the family, filing paperwork for state and federal incentives and dealing with Orange and Rockland Utilities and the village of Nyack. The installation cost $26,000, but after state and federal incentives, the family paid only $13,000. 
 Mr. Albert said that after rebates and tax credits it usually takes about 10 years for homeowners to earn back their investment, maybe eight years, if local electricity rates are rising. Payback is accomplished through net metering, an arrangement with the local utility that allows the electricity meter to run backward. It does that when the solar panels are generating more power than the household is consuming. The homeowner sells the excess electricity to the utility and receives a credit.
 Sometimes, during very sunny periods, for instance, the homeowner may even receive a negative bill. So far, that has happened only once, said Martha Roth, who is a home-birth midwife and lives in the house with her husband, the actor-writer Bill Irwin, their son and two dogs. She also noted that in 2003, the year before the panels were installed, their electricity bill was $1,251.16. In 2007, it was $645.83. 
 But, Ms. Roth said, economics were not the family's primary motivation. ''We weren't expecting to make money back,'' she said. ''We try to imagine we are doing our part.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BRIGHT SIDE: Bill Irwin and Martha Roth, right, with their dog Chai, had solar panels installed on the roof of their Nyack, N.Y., home. The panels generate 3,600 kilowatt hours of electricity a year, enough to offset about 60 percent of the household's use. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%); SALES REBATES (58%)

COMPANY: ORANGE & ROCKLAND UTILITIES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



631 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Attitudes And Home Prices Sour

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Americans are bracing for rising unemployment and shrinking salaries, a gloomy outlook that could translate into a serious cutback in consumer spending, the primary engine of the economy. 
 A private survey of about 2,500 households found that Americans feel worse now about the economy's prospects than at any time since 1973, when Americans struggled with soaring oil prices and runaway inflation. 
 Fears often prove overblown, of course, and this particular survey, which was released on Tuesday by the Conference Board, has a spotty track record as an indicator. But expectations can often be self-fulfilling: worried consumers are less likely to make the big purchases that help keep the economy humming. 
 ''It signals a great deal of concern and anxiety and uncertainty among consumers,'' Bernard Baumohl of the Economic Outlook Group, a research firm in Princeton, N.J., said of the survey.
 ''Add that to the fact that the job market has weakened dramatically, and incomes haven't been rising very much -- certainly below the pace of inflation -- and you really have the ingredients of a significant cutback of consumer spending,'' he said.
 With home prices falling at record rates, Americans are also finding it more difficult to draw on their home equity, further depressing their spending power. A separate report on Tuesday said the value of single-family homes in major metropolitan areas plummeted 10.7 percent in January from a year earlier, the steepest annual decline since the 1990s housing slump.
 ''Consumer-led recessions are among the most difficult to turn around in an economy,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''Particularly this one, because of the fact that many households feel a lot poorer than they did a year ago, primarily because of the collapse in the value of their homes.''
 Sales of goods and services make up more than two-thirds of gross domestic product, so a significant spending slowdown can speed the onset of a recession or make a downturn even worse. 
 And the gloom among consumers appeared widespread. A quarter of those surveyed said that businesses conditions would worsen in the next six months, and nearly a third said the economy would have fewer jobs. Fewer Americans plan to purchase big-ticket items like refrigerators, vehicles and television sets, and more than half said that jobs were currently ''not so plentiful.''
 Responding to a question about income expectations, the proportion of Americans who said they expected their incomes to rise over the next six months dropped to 14.9 percent, the lowest level since the Conference Board began its survey in 1967.
 Still, some economists said the report may represent the worst of the current downturn, rather than a harbinger of more pain to come.
 ''Typically, these readings look the worst when the economy is bottoming,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research and trading firm. He said that on average, the stock market has risen substantially in the six months after Americans' economic expectations bottom out.
 ''As bad as this looks -- and it is bad -- it might mean we are in a recession right now,'' Mr. Darda said. ''It's not necessarily a forward-looking indicator.'' 
 Over all, consumer confidence -- a measure of current sentiment -- stood at a five-year low in March, the Conference Board said. The results echoed a separate consumer survey by the University of Michigan and Reuters, which reached a 16-year low in March.
 Home values are also falling at a rapid rate, according to the closely watched Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index, which on Tuesday released its latest survey of home prices in 20 metropolitan areas. 
 In January, all 20 regions recorded price declines, with the steepest losses in Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. Over all, prices dipped 2.36 percent in January, after falling 2.1 percent a month before. 
 Homes in Miami and Las Vegas have lost nearly 20 percent of their value in the 12 months ended in January. In only one area, Charlotte, N.C., have prices risen over the last year.
 Though the price declines will hurt homeowners, they may also help to lure buyers back into the ailing housing market. Economists said the price drop was necessary to bring down inventories, which have ballooned in recent months as buyers waited for prices to fall even further. 
 ''It's a necessary thing,'' Joshua Shapiro, an economist at the research firm MFR, said. ''If pain is necessary, bring it on. That's where we are right now.''
 Falling prices may have already started to attract some buyers. Sales of previously owned homes ticked up last month, according to the National Association of Realtors, ending a six-month streak of declines.
 The positive sales figure led some analysts to suggest that the housing market is approaching its bottom. But other economists predict that prices will have to fall further, and for several more months, before sales pick up in earnest. 
 In the New York metropolitan area, home values fell just 0.9 percent in January, and 5.8 percent compared with a year earlier. But the decline appeared to be gaining speed: values are down nearly 10 percent on a three-month annualized basis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house for sale in Lancaster, N.Y. The declines in home prices, paired with high inflation, have shaken buyers' confidence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DUPREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE: Index measuring attitudes toward the economy. 1985 = 100 (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RECESSION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



632 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TheBusinessOfGreen; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Pay for the Power, Not the Panels

BYLINE: By PETER MALONEY

 BODY:
INNOVATION is driving a boom in solar power, but some of the most compelling advances are taking place in financial engineering rather than photovoltaic technology. 
 Solar power is simple, clean and easily installed, but manufacturing solar panels is expensive, which is why this energy source is out of reach for many residences and businesses. Lately, however, solar power companies have discovered that they can attract more buyers if they act as financial intermediaries as well as suppliers of equipment and systems used to generate electricity from sunlight.
 The new financial techniques allow the solar companies to separate the capital expense of the systems they sell and the tax benefits that accrue to the buyer from the final costs of the electricity produced. In doing so, the solar companies have made it possible for more corporations and even some homeowners to kill two birds with one stone: doing good for the environment while cutting the cost of the power they consume. 
 Creative financing ''tears down the Berlin Wall of capital-cost barriers and opens up a floodgate of installations,'' said Julie Blunden, vice president for public policy and communications at the SunPower Corporation, one of the solar equipment manufacturers that has taken on the techniques. ''If a company is looking at putting a system on more than one roof, they don't have to worry about installation costs or the expiration of tax incentives. All they have to look at is the energy cost.'' 
 The new financial methods are propelling the recent surge in photovoltaic solar power installations. Some 148 megawatts of solar capacity came online in 2007, up 46.5 percent from the 101 megawatts installed the previous year, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, a Washington trade group. Including isolated solar installations -- that is, those not connected to the power grid -- the 2007 total was 190 megawatts, a 35 percent increase over the 141 megawatts of solar power installed in 2006.
 Using a ''power-purchase agreement'' model, or P.P.A., companies like SunEdison L.L.C. and SunPower take on the cost of installing solar panels on customers' roofs. In return, customers pay the solar power company for the panels' output, generally at a lower rate than they would otherwise pay. 
 SunEdison first used the P.P.A. model, also called a solar power service agreement, in March 2004 when it installed solar panels on the roof of a building in Edgewater, N.J., occupied by a Whole Foods Market. Since then, it has installed 93 systems, most for large retailers, using the agreements. 
 The power purchase model is also attracting bankers. In November, Morgan Stanley agreed to provide $190 million to finance solar projects being developed by SunPower. In January, SunPower struck a deal with G.E. Energy Financial Services that requires G.E. to buy five solar power projects in California for about $50 million. 
 ''The lesson,'' said Thomas H. Werner, SunPower's chief executive, ''is there is a very competitive market for financing systems in the United States with lots of high-quality investors looking to participate.'' 
 Goldman Sachs is also financing solar power, as are Wells Fargo and MMA Renewable Ventures, a unit of Municipal Mortgage and Equity, which says it has arranged financing for $300 million worth of solar energy projects. 
 ''The P.P.A. model is becoming the dominant model,'' said Edward Levin, vice president for global capital markets at Morgan Stanley. ''It is no longer a plausible business model for a solar developer to sell panels to a property owner or corporation.'' 
 The market for commercial solar power installations is not based solely on environmental concerns. Solar power is exploding because of ''pure economics,'' said Barry Neal, director of environmental finance at Wells Fargo.
 Companies like Wal-Mart and Kohl's are turning to solar power because ''they can actually reduce their electricity costs, particularly in states like California and New Jersey,'' where electricity rates are high and rising, Mr. Neal said. Those states, which also offer generous incentives, account for about 85 percent of solar installations in the country. 
 California's Million Solar Roofs program includes incentives that could translate into an $8,000 rebate for a typical home solar system. New Jersey's solar incentive program has been so popular -- the state went from six solar installations in 2001 to 2,712 at the end of 2007 -- that it has run out of money. It is moving from cash rebates to rebates in the form of certificates that can be bought and sold to help companies meet required emission reduction levels. 
 Besides state incentives, there is a federal investment tax credit worth up to 30 cents on the dollar. For bankers involved in solar power, these credits make the deals more profitable than cash returns alone would. Mark McLanahan, vice president for marketing and strategy at MMA Renewable Ventures, said that the credits mean that companies like his can charge less for electricity under the power purchase contracts. 
 Credit quality issues make the residential market harder to crack than the commercial market. SunPower works with home builders to install solar panels on new homes and with New Resource Bank in San Francisco to offer second mortgages to finance solar installations on existing homes. But credit issues must be resolved before this market can take off, executives say. 
 There are several possible solutions. One being watched is a city-run program developed by Berkeley, Calif. Under the plan, Berkeley pays homeowners to install solar systems and then recoups the cost through a 20-year addition to their property tax bills. 
 But repackaging risk does not eliminate it. Under the solar power purchase agreements, the buyer -- the retailer, the homeowner -- takes the risk. ''They are making a big bet'' that the price of conventional power stays high, said Severin Borenstein, director of the University of California Energy Institute.
 Photovoltaic solar power is ''incredibly expensive,'' he said. ''It isn't economic, and you can't make it economic through financial engineering.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LET IT SHINE: SunPower workers install panels in Norwalk, Conn. The company is helping clients with financing, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.H1)
 SUNBEAMS: Paul Avery, far left, and Narayan Gibbs of Southern Energy Management install panels atop a carport in Chapel Hill, N.C., to help power the home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA D. DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.H6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (95%); ENGINEERING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); TAX LAW (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: SUNPOWER CORP (86%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (51%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY SERVICES INC (50%)

TICKER: SPWR (NASDAQ) (86%); MS (NYSE) (58%); WFM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (50%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



633 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Juveniles Are Gone, Yet the Jails Remain

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The public pays about $500 a night for each of the 25 beds in the Auburn Residential Center -- a place for teenagers who have gotten into lower-grade trouble with the law, a junior-varsity jail. For the last two weeks, the beds in Auburn have been empty. And state officials expect them to remain empty, permanently. 
 But even with no one under the sheets, each bed will continue to cost as much as $200,000 a year, the officials say. 
 Auburn, near Syracuse, is one of three state facilities for teenagers that are becoming high-priced ghost jails. Brace Residential Center, in Delaware County, with 25 beds, has just two teenagers staying there, watched over by a staff of 24; Great Valley in Cattaraugus County has 10 young people and a staff of 24. Soon, Brace and Great Valley, like Auburn, will no longer have teenagers staying there.
 Yet if the State Senate has its way, all three will remain open until at least January 2010. 
 ''I believe the number of juveniles was deliberately reduced this year and the kids sent elsewhere'' to justify closing Great Valley, said State Senator Catharine M. Young, a Republican from Cattaraugus County, which is in the western part of the state, near the borders of Pennsylvania and Ohio. The Senate has passed a resolution that requires Great Valley and the others to remain open. 
 Nearly all politicians fight to keep jobs in their districts. Prisons, jails and juvenile facilities have been a source of political and economic power to upstate areas that have little other industry. Most of the inmates came from the five boroughs and the metropolitan area. 
 In the battle over the ghost jails, though, the fight is not simply about the local economy, but also about a system of juvenile corrections that has been in a quiet state of collapse for nearly a decade, particularly for teenagers who are not in trouble for serious offenses. 
 New York City has found better, cheaper ways to move teenagers onto safer ground, said Ronald E. Richter, the city's family services coordinator. 
 For offenders whose home lives are filled with problems, the city now provides intense programs for the entire family, buttressing the role of adults in the lives of the teenagers. Last year, about 275 teenagers and their families were sent into these programs rather than the state juvenile system. 
 So instead of sending the teenagers off to state facilities that cost $140,000 to $200,000 a year per person, the city is spending about $17,000 a year, Mr. Richter said. And while the state's juvenile recidivism rate is 80 percent, the city program had a rate of about 35 percent in its first year, he said.
 Gladys Carrion, the commissioner of the state's Office of Children and Family Services, which administers the juvenile centers, says straightening out teenagers who have committed minor offenses is a job better done in community-based systems. The juvenile centers, she said, should be reserved for ''young people who are a danger to themselves and their communities.''
 ''For most of the kids, we don't need these facilities, and we don't need to be shipping them hundreds of miles away from their families,'' she said. ''That money can be reinvested in programs that work better for these young people.''
 The prison economy is a central feature of New York's political economy. The state Public Employees Federation, which represents some of the employees in the juvenile centers, has bought advertisements in small newspapers in towns near the centers, arguing that the state is jumping the gun. 
 ''We think it's premature,'' said Darcy Wells, spokeswoman for the union. ''The police say that juvenile arrests are up by 8 percent in New York City.'' 
 Ms. Carrion said that there would be plenty of space if serious juvenile crime rose sharply. ''Even after I close the facilities, I will have 20 to 30 percent excess capacity, so I have the flexibility in the system,'' she said.
 Senator Young said that the community-based programs like the one in New York needed to be studied before the existing system was shut down. The current data, she said, is not adequate. 
 Ms. Carrion says there is no need to wait: The current juvenile system catapults needy youngsters far from the families they will eventually return to, with no changes in the households that they left. 
 ''Almost all of the kids are black and brown,'' she said. ''This is the alternative boarding school system for children of color. We can do better than this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Brace Residential Center in Masonville, N.Y., has two residents guarded by a staff of 24.
The Brace Center is one of three state facilities for teenagers that are now largely empty.
 An increasing number of teenagers in trouble are being sent to family-oriented social programs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICS (73%); RECIDIVISM RATES (72%); CITIES (63%); CHILD WELFARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



634 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Be It Ever So Illogical: Homeowners Who Won't Cut the Price

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 2005, Randolph Harrison and his wife, Pamela, decided to move north from Silicon Valley, over the Golden Gate Bridge into wooded Marin County to be closer to her new job. They found a six-bedroom house that seemed ideal except for the price, $1.875 million. The current owner, they knew, had bought the house a year earlier for $1.475 million.
 So the couple, who both have finance jobs in the technology industry, told their real estate agent that they wanted to offer $1.575 million. He told them that the owner wouldn't even listen to such a low bid. The owner's attitude was ''we'll just stay here until we sell it for 1.875,'' the agent said, ''even if it takes years.''
 Three years ago, when the real estate bubble was still inflating, this sort of standoff was the exception. It's the norm today. Overall home sales have fallen a remarkable 33 percent since the summer of 2005. Home prices, on the other hand, continued to rise until 2006 and are now only 5 to 10 percent below where they were in mid-2005, according to various measures. 
 In most other areas of the economy, this combination of plummeting sales and stable prices would not happen. When demand for airline tickets drop, the airlines cut their prices until they have sold their seats. When stocks become less appealing, share prices fall, sometimes sharply. 
 Just try to imagine stock prices staying roughly flat over a three-year period while sales volumes sank because investors considered the market overvalued. Bear Stearns is still worth $150 a share, and I'm not selling until someone pays me $150!
 Real estate, though, is different. For both economic and psychological reasons, there is no asset more conducive to hopeful overvaluation. 
 That means real estate slumps tend to grind on for years, until sellers submit to reality and reduce their prices. This week's batch of economic reports suggest that the adjustment is finally starting to happen. The decline in house prices is accelerating, especially in some of the big metropolitan areas covered by the Case-Shiller index released Tuesday, while the number of home sales has recently risen a bit. 
 But prices still have a ways to fall. Relative to the economic fundamentals -- like incomes and housing supply -- the average price nationwide seems to be about 10 percent too high. (This, of course, hides a lot of variation. In Texas, prices look sensible, while in much of Florida and Arizona, they are probably about 25 percent too high.)
 The slow unwinding of the real estate excess, in turn, means that the turmoil in the financial markets and the country's broader economic problems also aren't anywhere near their end. Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, recently told Congress that the stabilization of prices was ''what we're looking forward to.'' That is, the end of the real estate slump is the only thing that can get the economy back on solid ground.
 Until house prices stop falling, it won't be clear how many more people will default on their mortgages. Even homeowners who stay current on their mortgage payments will be affected. With the value of their largest asset dropping, many will decide to spend less and save more, aggravating the economic slowdown. 
 On Tuesday, the Conference Board reported that Americans were more pessimistic about the economy's direction over the next six months than at any point since the bad old days of the 1973 oil embargo. 
 In many ways, it would be better if the housing correction would happen more swiftly and sharply. The pain might be worse, but it would be over quickly. We seem to understand this principle when we're removing a bandage. Why, then, is it so much harder with housing? 
 Because houses are almost perfectly engineered to trick owners into overvaluing them.
 For starters, people have an obvious emotional connection to their house. After you have raised a family or enjoyed long meals with friends there, you are naturally going to place a higher value on it than a dispassionate buyer would. It's your home.
 In normal times, buyers and sellers can still come to an agreement because inflation allows sellers to feel that they have made a nice return on their house. People don't sell houses frequently, so the sale price of a house is almost always higher than it was when the current owner bought it, just as the price of food, haircuts and everything else tends to rise over a five- or 10-year span. Because of leverage -- the fact that people buy houses mostly on credit -- these inflation-driven price increases turn into true investment gains.
 In the wake of the biggest housing boom on record, it's understandably hard to accept a new reality. Robert Glinert, a real estate agent in the Los Angeles area, said he has recently been saying no to almost half the sellers who have asked him to represent them. Their initial asking price is just too unrealistic. 
 ''People say, 'I don't care about the market -- my home is still worth what I paid for it in 2006,' '' Mr. Glinert told me. ''And I say, 'To you. Only to you.' '' 
 Doing what Mr. Glinert is asking sellers to do -- dropping the asking price below their purchase price -- is especially difficult. It's tantamount to admitting defeat.
 David Laibson, a leading behavioral economist, categorizes this sort of behavior under the heading of ''the principle of the matter.'' His point is that people often go to great lengths to avoid taking a loss -- or simply having to acknowledge one. ''Even a small loss evokes a sense of frustration,'' said Mr. Laibson, a professor at Harvard. ''There's something magical about 'at least breaking even.' '' 
 Often, this hurts no one so much as it hurts the would-be sellers. They stay in homes where they no longer want to live, rather than accepting their loss and moving on. Or they move but endure the hassle of renting out their old home, waiting, usually in vain, for the mythical buyer who understands its charms. All the while, their money is tied up in the house, and inflation is eating away at its real value. 
 Back in 2005, after Mr. Harrison and his wife couldn't find a house they considered fairly valued, they opted to rent instead. They pay $3,250 a month for a four-bedroom home, which is a bargain relative to what their mortgage payments would have been. 
 And that six-bedroom house listed for $1.875 million? The last Mr. Harrison checked, it still hadn't sold. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: STANDARD & POOR'S/CASE-SHILLER HOME PRICE INDEX
TOTAL NEW AND EXISTING HOME RATES (Sources: S.& P.
Fiserv
MacroMarkets
Census Bureau
 National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); AIRLINES (65%); TRAVEL TICKETS (65%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



635 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Afghans Lack $10 Billion in Aid, Report Says

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Western countries have failed to deliver $10 billion of nonmilitary assistance pledged to Afghanistan over the last six years and the United States, by far the biggest donor, is responsible for half of the shortfall, a new report published here on Tuesday said.
 The report was written by a policy adviser from the British charity Oxfam and published by the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, or Acbar, a coalition of Afghan and international nongovernment aid organizations. It warned that development assistance to Afghanistan had been inadequate and in many cases wasteful or ineffective, jeopardizing economic progress and security in the country. 
 Donor countries pledged $25 billion in aid from 2002 to 2008, but only $15 billion has been disbursed to date, the report states, citing Afghan government figures. The United States, which provides one third of all development assistance to Afghanistan, has spent only $5 billion of the $10.4 billion it has pledged for that period. 
 Jim Kunder, the acting deputy administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, told The Associated Press that there were always concerns about the speed with which aid was delivered but that the work was being done.
 ''The U.S. government is on track to provide the aid to Afghanistan that it pledged,'' he said.
 American officials have also blamed security conditions for slowing assistance programs, including the largest one in the country, the development of the Kajaki dam in the insurgent stronghold of Helmand Province.
 The new report is one of several recent studies that have called for more and better organized assistance to Afghanistan. In an attempt to address some of the concerns, the Security Council recently gave the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan greater powers to coordinate international development assistance.
 The World Bank has spent only a little more than half of its commitments to Afghanistan, and the European Commission and Germany have disbursed less than two-thirds of theirs, the Acbar report said. The Asia Development Bank and India have disbursed only a third of their commitments, while Japan and Canada were singled out for best meeting their pledges. 
 The shortfalls in assistance can be partly attributed to poor security, high levels of government corruption and the inability of Afghan institutions to absorb the aid any faster, the report said. ''However, the magnitude of the shortfalls underscores the importance of donors increasing efforts to mitigate or adapt to such problems,'' it said. 
 International development aid to Afghanistan remained ''woefully inadequate,'' the report's author, Matt Waldman, wrote. At $7 million a day, it is far below the $100 million spent daily on military needs. 
 It has also fallen far short of development assistance to other postconflict countries, like Bosnia and East Timor. In the two years after 2001 Afghanistan received only $57 per capita in aid, whereas Bosnia received $679 and East Timor $233. 
 The report also called for a comprehensive review of international assistance, two-thirds of which bypasses the Afghan government and fails to do enough to relieve the poverty of the Afghan people. 
 The Afghan government says it has no knowledge of where $5 billion of the $15 billion spent since 2001 went, according to the Acbar report, and only half of the money being spent now is being disbursed in concert with the government, it said. 
 A spokesman for President Hamid Karzai said that the government largely agreed with the findings in the report but that it rejected the report's criticism of the government for failing to tackle corruption.
 The Acbar report estimated that of the $15 billion spent to date, a ''staggering'' 40 percent had not stayed in Afghanistan but had been repatriated in consultants' salaries and company profits. More than half the international aid is ''tied,'' meaning it is bound by procurement rules that resources and services have to be purchased from the donor's country.
 The report singled out A.I.D. for wasteful practices. A road from the Kabul airport to a major intersection near the United States Embassy cost more than $3 million a mile, ''at least four times the average cost of building a road in Afghanistan,'' Acbar said in a news release issued in Kabul alongside the report. A.I.D. does not finance development through the government but works through profit-making contractors who often subcontract the work to other companies. ''Vast sums of aid are lost in the corporate profits of contractors and subcontractors, which can be as high as 50 percent on a single contract,'' the report said. 
 The use of foreign consultants is also costly, at $250,000 to $500,000 a year for each, because of high salaries, generous living allowances and security expenses. 
 The report also criticized an imbalance in assistance. Too much of the aid goes to the capital, Kabul, and other urban centers, it said, when three-quarters of the population lives in rural areas. Agriculture, the main livelihood of the population, has not been a priority, it added. 
 A disproportionate amount of the aid is also being spent in the southern part of the country, where the insurgency is strongest, which has created resentment in northern areas, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



636 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Canada: Retail Sales Growth Continues

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Retail sales posted a third straight month of big gains in January thanks to a cut in the federal sales tax and an appetite for new passenger cars. Statistics Canada reported a 1.5 percent jump in January retail sales, after a revised 0.8 percent gain in December. Passenger car sales skyrocketed in January, up 16.2 percent compared with December, according to a separate Statscan survey. But even excluding the auto sector, which accounts for about a third of the total, retail sales grew 1.3 percent. Still, economists were skeptical that the consumer spending spree lasted into February, saying sales probably slowed as they did in the United States in that month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); SALES TAX (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



637 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TheBusinessOfGreen; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: For Carbon Emissions, A Goal of Less Than Zero

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
IF the world is going to sharply reduce the amount of carbon dioxide pumped into the atmosphere by midcentury, then many businesses will have to go carbon neutral, bringing their net emissions of the greenhouse gas to zero.
 But some could go even further by removing more CO2 than they produce. Instead of carbon neutral, how about carbon negative?
 In academic and industrial labs worldwide, researchers are working on technologies to reach that goal. Success could create the ultimate green business -- for example, one that produces fuel whose emissions are more than offset by carbon dioxide stored during production. The businesses would be successful if, as anticipated, Congress puts a tax on emissions or starts a trading plan that makes carbon credits valuable.
 For some experts, it's not a question of whether businesses will go carbon negative but when. 
 Carbon-negative technologies of some sort will be essential, said Daniel M. Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley. The world is facing the certainty of massive emissions for decades to come from plants already running, he said, adding that atmospheric concentrations must be stabilized. ''We've got such a carbon overshoot looming in the future that this is going to have to happen,'' he said.
 The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said that an 80 percent cut in carbon dioxide emissions was necessary to avoid the worst consequences of climate change. But capturing the gas from coal plant smokestacks or switching to fuels that produce less of it when burned goes only so far.
 ''The great problem is actually removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere,'' said Geir Vollsaeter, an environment expert and former general manager of carbon dioxide at Shell International, a subsidiary of the oil giant.
 While much engineering work would have to be done to make a business carbon negative, the outlines are clear.
 Take the concept of building a coal plant that captures and stores carbon dioxide. Such a plant could have zero emissions, because the coal would be turned into gas and processed to produce hydrogen and carbon dioxide. The hydrogen, a pollution-free fuel, would be burned, and the CO2 pumped underground for permanent storage. 
 But Robert Williams, a research scientist at Princeton University, said that not only coal could be gasified; you could also make the same fuel by starting with plant matter or other biomass. 
 And then, he said, ''if you put any CO2 underground that is derived from biomass, that's negative CO2 emissions.'' That is because plants or trees -- the raw material for the fuel --pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as they grow, and the gasification and storage takes that carbon out of circulation.
 Mr. Williams said the more likely route would be to gasify a mixture of coal and biomass to keep the process carbon neutral. But the balance depends on the cost of separation and storage versus what kind of tax or other fee Congress might put on emissions.
 More audacious is a plan by two professors at Columbia University to suck carbon dioxide out of the air, using waste heat from a solar plant, which has no smokestack. 
 Peter M. Eisenberger, a professor of earth and environmental sciences whose resume includes positions at Exxon and other major companies, and Graciela Chichilnisky, an economist and mathematician, have proposed a ''global thermostat strategy,'' which would adapt a chemical process for capturing carbon dioxide from smokestacks. 
 Ordinarily, the process requires a large amount of energy. But the professors noted that McMahan L. Gray, a scientist at an Energy Department laboratory, has modified the process so that the relatively small amount of waste heat from a solar-generating plant could do the job. They estimate that they could remove about five pounds of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced. (A coal plant emits about two pounds when it makes that much electricity.) 
 ''If you want to solve the global warming problem, you can't do that by staying even,'' Dr. Eisenberger said.
 It will probably take a bounty on a ton of carbon, though, before anyone will do tests to see how well the chemistry will work on a practical scale. 
 A carbon-based process that may be a step closer to commercialization was created by George A. Olah, a Nobel laureate in chemistry, and G. K. Surya Prakash, a fellow faculty member at the University of Southern California. To recycle carbon dioxide, they developed a kind of reverse fuel cell, which makes methanol by mixing the gas with water and applying a jolt of electricity. 
 If the source of the electricity is carbon-neutral -- from a windmill or a nuclear reactor, for example -- the process would be carbon negative. (Although if the methanol is used as vehicle fuel, the carbon would be released back into the environment, making the process carbon neutral.) 
 UOP, a subsidiary of Honeywell, announced in December that it had acquired rights to the technology, a sign somebody thinks it could be profitable.
 The Department of Agriculture is considering carbon storage as a new crop, so to speak. ''It's one of the many, many ways the agriculture community is going to be a viable player in the renewable-energy field as we go forward,'' said Edward T. Schafer, the secretary of agriculture, at a renewable-energy conference this month.
 The method is called agrichar, in which some biological material -- grass or trees grown specifically for the purpose; or a cornstalk or other agricultural waste -- is cooked at a very high temperature in the absence of oxygen. That produces an oil that, with a little chemical work, can be used as a vehicle fuel.
 But in a world focused on carbon, the important part may be the leftovers, a charcoal-like material that retains most of the carbon. It also has useful minerals, like potassium and phosphorus. Plowed back into a field, it helps the soil retain water and nutrients, which also enhances plant growth, said Robert C. Brown, director of the Bioeconomy Institute at Iowa State University. 
 Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, has introduced legislation that would pay for more research. If it works, he said, farmers would have a new crop. ''You'd be growing allowances,'' he said. 
 If being carbon negative becomes important, then some existing industries may try to describe themselves that way. In some cases, it may even be true. 
 For example, Covanta Energy of Fairfield, N.J., operates plants that make electricity by burning municipal solid waste, which is about 80 percent paper and other organic materials. But Anthony J. Orlando, Covanta's president and chief executive, says he is hoping to collect carbon credits, because each ton burned, he said, would have otherwise been buried in a landfill where bacteria digest garbage to make methane, a potent greenhouse gas. The company is building plants in China that will qualify for credits, issued by the European Union, which companies in Europe can buy to offset their own carbon output, Mr. Orlando said. As for the United States, he said, ''it depends on the legislation.''
 A Washington company, the Solena Group, also has a carbon-negative plan, which emerged from the decision by regulators in Kansas last year to turn down a permit for two new coal-burning power plants because of the millions of tons of carbon dioxide they would produce. The regulators insisted that the builder of the plants, an electric co-op called Sunflower, had to permanently remove the carbon from circulation. Gov. Kathleen Sebelius and the Kansas State Legislature are still arguing over whether the plants should be built.
 Solena says it can use the carbon. The company employs a high-temperature process to break up anything organic into a flammable gas. The organic material could be algae, which have an extremely high energy value per pound. And algae eat carbon dioxide.
 Solena is in discussion with Sunflower to build a 40-megawatt power plant that would run on gasified algae; the algae would be grown in thousands of clear plastic cylinders, 3 feet wide by 10 feet tall, sitting in the Kansas sun and fertilized with sodium bicarbonate, made with carbon captured from Sunflower's coal plant. For each 1.8 tons of carbon dioxide, the columns would yield a ton of algae. 
 A Solena subsidiary has been growing algae at a facility in Alicante, Spain. 
 If built, the system would make double use of the carbon from the coal and avoid digging more coal for more power. Alternatively, the gas could be turned into diesel fuel or other vehicle fuel, if prices favored that. 
 For the truly adventurous, there is the plankton ocean digester, the brainchild of Mark E. Capron, an American civil engineer. His idea is to take a natural process, the bacterial breakdown of algae in the ocean, and carry it out in an underwater tank without air. The process would produce methane, which could be piped to shore for use as fuel, and carbon dioxide, which could be pumped to the ocean depths, where it would stay.
 Since the system would replace the need for oil or natural gas, it would reduce carbon loading in the atmosphere. And it would run on plants or anything else that came into the digester. ''Fish, octopuses, we're not picky,'' Mr. Capron said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GREEN GIANTS: Algae, which have a high energy value per pound and consume carbon dioxide, are being cultivated at a biofuel demonstration facility run by the Solena Group in Alicante, Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE A. MARTINEZ/SOLENA GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); BIOMASS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); COAL INDUSTRY (86%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); TEST LABORATORIES (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



638 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TheBusinessOfGreen; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Majoring in Renewable Energy

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
AS business and industry are taking more interest in renewable energy, academia is not far behind. Anticipating increased demand for new technical and design skills, colleges and universities across the nation are offering degree programs in the field.
 The Oregon Institute of Technology has developed the country's first four-year undergraduate degree program in renewable-energy systems. This year the program is training 50 students and will graduate its first class.
 The institute's degree requires basic knowledge in engineering, electrical circuits, motors and generators, thermodynamics, heat transfer and the language of computers. Then come specialized courses in photovoltaics (solar energy research and technology), wind, biomass (the recycling of biological material), hydropower and geothermal energy development. 
 Robert Bass, 33, the assistant professor who directs the program, said his students would be applying their new bachelor of science degrees in a range of design, engineering, installation, auditing and programming careers in the region's expanding green-power sector. 
 ''We're constantly getting phone calls from renewable-energy companies who advertise jobs,'' said Dr. Bass, adding that two of his graduating students were already employed full time. ''A student graduating from this program has a range of choices about where they want to start their careers. And starting salaries are very good.''
 Such promising career prospects have helped make the renewable-energy degree the most sought after at the Oregon Institute of Technology's campus in Portland, and similar undergraduate and graduate programs are emerging around the country. 
 In 2006, the State University of New York in Canton started a four-year degree program in alternative and renewable energy. In September, Illinois State University in Normal will establish a four-year degree program in renewable energy. Appalachian State University in Boone, N.C., offers an undergraduate degree in appropriate technology, an environmentally and socially responsible approach to engineering, with coursework in the design and construction of solar-powered buildings, drafting, design, woodworking, metalworking, computer literacy, architecture and green construction. 
 More community colleges are offering one-year certificates and two-year associate degrees in building and installing clean-energy systems. Lane Community College, in Eugene, Ore., trains renewable-energy technicians in a two-year program that teaches students how to improve the energy efficiency of homes and businesses and install solar-power and wind-power systems. 
 San Juan College, in Farmington, N.M., which has a program that specializes in designing and installing solar-energy systems, awards one-year certificates and two-year degrees. Bronx Community College, part of the City University of New York, also offers solar-electric training. 
 Starting salaries nationally, say students and faculty members, typically range between $35,000 to $45,000 for graduates of two-year programs and $45,000 to $60,000 for graduates of four-year programs. 
 Renewable energy can be approached from various academic angles, from economics to public policy. ''Stanford University has established several energy and environment research and teaching programs -- almost all of these programs are interdisciplinary,'' said James L. Sweeney, director of the Precourt Institute for Energy Efficiency at Stanford and a professor of management science and engineering there. Stanford emphasized that point this month when it dedicated the $118 million Jerry Yang and Akiko Yamazaki Environment and Energy Building, which houses many disciplines in an energy-saving facility. 
 Nationally, students view these programs as gateways to good jobs. ''There's all sorts of stuff out there for us,'' said Mac Lewis, a 30-year-old student from Cedaredge, Colo., who has a B.S. in chemistry from Mesa State College in Grand Junction, Colo., and is about to graduate with a second degree in renewable energy from the Oregon Institute of Technology.
 ''We can go into energy auditing, solar design, energy modeling,'' he said. ''There are engineering firms looking for people like me. Photovoltaic manufacturers are coming here. Wind energy companies. There are nonprofit groups that are interested. And that's just what's going on around Portland.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (75%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PHYSICS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) OREGON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



639 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AMERICAN EXCEPTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Courts Wary of U.S. Punitive Damages

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
In the late summer of 1985, Kurt Parrott, a 15-year-old who loved baseball and Pac-Man, was thrown from his motorcycle in Opelika, Ala. The buckle of his helmet failed, and he died when his bare head hit the pavement. Mr. Parrott's mother sued the Italian company that made the helmet, and an Alabama court awarded her $1 million.
 The company refused to pay. And last year, when lawyers for the Parrott family tried to collect in Italy, they were blocked by the Italian Supreme Court.
 The court said that a peculiarity of American law -- punitive damages -- was so offensive to Italian notions of justice that it would not enforce the Alabama judgment. 
 Most of the rest of the world views the idea of punitive damages with alarm. As the Italian court explained, private lawsuits brought by injured people should have only one goal -- compensation for a loss. Allowing separate awards meant to punish the defendant, foreign courts say, is a terrible idea. 
 Punishments, they say, should be meted out only by the criminal justice system, with its elaborate due process protections and disinterested prosecutors. It is not fair, they add, to give plaintiffs a windfall beyond what they have lost. And the ad hoc opinions of a jury, they say, are a poor substitute for the considered judgments of government safety regulators.
 Some common-law countries do allow punitive damages, though in limited circumstances and modest amounts. In the United States, by contrast, enormous punitive awards are relatively common, although they are often reduced or eliminated on appeal. Last month, for instance, the United States Supreme Court heard arguments in the Exxon Valdez case, where a jury's initial award of $5 billion was later reduced to $2.5 billion. 
 Still, such awards terrify foreign courts.
 ''The U.S. practice of permitting a lay jury to exercise largely discretionary judgment with limited constraints in awarding punitive damages is regarded almost universally outside the U.S. with a high degree of disfavor,'' said Gary Born, an American lawyer who works in London.
 Foreign lawyers and judges are quick to cite particularly large American awards. Julian Lew, a barrister in London, recalled a Mississippi court's $400 million punitive award against a Canadian company in 1995 with scorn. ''It did bring America into total and utter contempt around the world,'' Mr. Lew said.
 Yet there are signs that the gap between the United States and the rest of the world is narrowing, as American courts and legislatures start to limit punitive awards and other countries start to experiment with them. 
 Punitive damages have deep roots in American and English common law, but their nature has changed here over time. ''Until well into the 19th century,'' Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court wrote in 2001, ''punitive damages frequently operated to compensate for intangible injuries'' like pain and suffering or emotional distress.
 These days, driven by the structure of the American civil justice system, entrepreneurial plaintiffs' lawyers and the populism they embrace, punitive damages are used to send messages to large corporations, to fill gaps in regulation and to reward successful plaintiffs with multiples of what they have lost. Distinctive features of the American legal system -- civil juries, class actions, contingency fees and the requirement that each side bear its own lawyers' fees -- all play a role in amplifying punitive damages. 
 Punitive damages are so embedded in the American legal system that the rationale for them is rarely explored. One of the best explanations came from a German Supreme Court decision in 1992, which said the concept had four main purposes: to punish the offender for ''uncivilized conduct,'' to deter the offender and others from doing similar things, to reward the plaintiff for enforcing the law and so improve ''general law and order,'' and to supplement inadequate compensatory damages.
 The case decided by the German court, like the one involving Kurt Parrott, was an effort to enforce a judgment from an American court against a defendant who had no assets in this country and refused to pay. Ordinarily, it is a relatively routine matter to ask a foreign court to enforce an American court judgment. Not so when punitive damages are involved, even where the conduct in question is shocking.
 The German case, for instance, involved sexual abuse. In 1985, a state court in Stockton, Calif., entered a $750,000 judgment, including $400,000 in punitive damages, against Eckhard Schmitz for abusing a 13-year-old boy. Mr. Schmitz would not pay, and he fled to Germany while he was appealing a 13-year criminal sentence for engaging in sex with other teenage boys.
 But the German court nonetheless said that the dangers of allowing punitive awards outweighed the benefits. The plaintiff should not get a windfall, the court said, and should not be allowed to act as a '' 'private public prosecutor' infringing the German state's monopoly on punishment with its associated safeguards.''
 The German court did enforce the $350,000 compensatory award. The Italian court, by contrast, refused to enforce any of the $1 million award to Kurt Parrott's mother because the Alabama judge had not said how much of it was for compensation and how much for punishment.
 But ''the tide may be about to change,'' John Y. Gotanda, a law professor at Villanova, wrote last year in The Columbia Journal of Transnational Law. ''Traditional hostility to American awards of such damages may be dissipating.''
 That is partly a consequence of changes here. American courts and legislatures are experimenting with ways to limit punitive damages, often in response to lobbying and litigation from business groups that say huge punitive awards are arbitrary, unfair and hurt the American economy. 
 Five states -- Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New Hampshire and Washington -- ban or severely limit punitive damages. Others restrict the amounts awarded. Some states, responding to the criticism that the awards are a windfall for the plaintiffs, require that a part be turned over to the states.
 The United States Supreme Court has in the last decade or so started to impose its own limits. In 1996, it ruled that a $2 million punitive award in an Alabama consumer fraud case involving a $4,000 compensatory award was excessive, given that the harm was merely economic, far exceeded the maximum punishment the state could have imposed and was disproportionate to the compensatory award. 
 In 2003, the court said that the ratio between punitive and compensatory awards must typically be in the single digits to be constitutional. It struck down a $145 million punitive award in an insurance fraud case where the compensatory damages had been $1 million.
 At the same time, courts in a few countries around the world are expanding the availability of punitive damages.
 The Tribunal Supremo in Spain, for instance, enforced a $1.3 million punitive award in a Texas trademark and unfair competition case in 2001. The Supreme Court of South Australia in 2005 indicated that it would consider enforcing American punitive awards where they involved ''brazen and fraudulent conduct.''
 Perhaps most notably, the Canadian Supreme Court in 2003 upheld a $50,000 punitive award in a Florida land dispute, saying it ''does not violate our principles of morality.'' 
 Justice Louis LeBel explained, with an air of resignation, why this was so, saying there was nothing in the American approach that was inherently offensive to Canadian ideas of basic fairness.
 ''Itis simply a different policy choice,'' he wrote, ''and it affords U.S. plaintiffs a level of protection of which they ought not necessarily to be deprived just because the defendant's assets are here.'' 
 Even in Germany, which flatly rejected an American punitive award in 1992, there are signs of change, said Franco Ferrari, a law professor at the University of Verona in Italy. ''The traditional compensatory regime has been permeated by punitive elements,'' he said. 
 In cases involving a fake interview with Princess Caroline of Monaco, intellectual property and employment discrimination, he said, German courts have started to award damages that seem to be meant to punish as well as compensate.
 Kurt Parrott's mother, Judy Glebosky, learned about the Italian Supreme Court's decision from a reporter. Her lawyers had turned the matter over to an international collection agency and had not bothered to tell her that she had lost. 
 The case seemed simple to her.
 ''I bought Kurt a helmet that was supposed to be the best,'' Ms. Glebosky said. ''It did not perform, and I lost Kurt.''
 Questions about punitive damages seemed academic to her, if not heartless.
 ''A million-dollar award is really nothing,'' she said. ''It's really not enough to punish any large company in this day and age, and it certainly does not bring back Kurt.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Italian courts refused to enforce a judgment Judy Glebosky won in America after her son died. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA MCGOWAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (92%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); DUE PROCESS (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%)

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



640 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: In Area Ripe for Foreclosures, Swift Steps Help Avert Them

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
When Wilbert and Patricia Savage missed two mortgage payments on their tidy row house here last fall, Mr. Savage, 75, despaired that they could ever catch up. 
 But he remembered Roy Miller, a nonprofit housing counselor with a nearby storefront office who had helped other neighbors in trouble. The Savages visited Mr. Miller, and he called their lender and was able to work out a repayment plan for the missed payments, something Mr. Savage said he could never have managed on his own. 
 ''Without Roy, we'd probably be out of the house or close to it,'' he said.
 As home foreclosure rates rise around the country, they appear to have stabilized or dropped in one neighborhood here, Belair-Edison, providing a model that local housing officials say can be copied in other areas. 
 For much of the decade, Belair-Edison, a lower- and middle-income neighborhood on the edge of East Baltimore, has had one of the city's highest foreclosure rates. From 1993 to 2003, one in three homeowners in the neighborhood lost their homes. 
 But since those peak years, foreclosures have fallen by more than a third, a development that Thomas E. Perez, Maryland's secretary of labor, licensing and regulation, says can be largely credited to Mr. Miller's group, the Belair-Edison Neighborhood Initiative, which uses public records and street level marketing to reach high-risk borrowers before they fall too far behind.
 ''People all too frequently hide, or get embarrassed, or put their heads in the sand, but delay is disastrous,'' Mr. Perez said.
 The Savages bought their three-bedroom house in 1988 for $55,000, with a low-interest loan from the Veterans Administration. But by 2006, they had bills to pay and needed to do some home repairs. At the same time, with home prices rising, they began to receive offers to refinance. Through a radio advertisement, they found they could get a $117,000 loan, with mortgage payments they thought would be $800 a month. Last fall, however, the payments were adjusted to $1,181, and they fell behind. 
 Mr. Miller is now helping the couple refinance to a low-cost loan through the city. He also put them on a budget for the first time, cutting out lottery tickets, restaurants and some clothing purchases. ''We used to eat out every Friday,'' Mr. Savage said. ''I miss it.'' 
 Housing counseling has long been a part of community development, and in December, the federal government approved $180 million for counseling programs to stem the foreclosure crisis.
 But in a survey that month by the California Reinvestment Coalition, most housing counselors said lenders were either largely unwilling to modify loans or they proposed terms the borrower could not afford. Mr. Miller said he had had success persuading some lenders to modify terms and had been able to help some homeowners refinance using public sources of money. But sometimes, he fails.
 Statistics on foreclosure are snapshots of a moving phenomenon, and data from the state labor department show 174 foreclosures in Belair-Edison last year, while the Community Law Center, a nonprofit public service group, counted 181; both figures are well below the more than 275 foreclosures in 2001 and in 2002. Because of a difference in counting the 2006 figures, the state number represents an increase in 2007, but a decline over several years. Both agencies attribute the discrepancy to the inexact nature of counting foreclosures.
 In the foreclosure crisis, lenders and borrowers both say the other has missed opportunities to save troubled loans. Lenders, who say they lose tens of thousands of dollars on every foreclosure, estimate that half of borrowers facing foreclosure never contact their lender, and many avoid the lender's calls or letters. In turn, housing advocates say lenders are reluctant or unable to modify loans. A survey by Moody's Investors Service found that 16 large servicers of subprime mortgages modified only 1 percent of loans that adjusted during three months studied last year. 
 ''People are calling and they can't get through to anyone at the servicer, and time is running out,'' Mr. Perez said.
 Both sides are hurt by this impasse. 
 In Belair-Edison, the campaign to break through began in 2003 and 2004. Belair-Edison is a transitional neighborhood flanked by boarded-up stretches on one side and a popular park and middle-income neighborhood on the other. At the time, it was starting to attract teachers and hospital workers, and housing prices, which had been depressed since the 1970s and 1980s, were on the rise. But houses were falling into foreclosure, in part because of mortgage fraud schemes. 
 In response, the Belair-Edison Neighborhood Initiative began to change the way it worked with residents and other housing groups. The agency has eight full-time employees and an annual budget of $450,000, from public and foundation sources. ''Their reaction to foreclosure was to strengthen outreach,'' said Sally Scott, co-chairwoman of the Baltimore Homeownership Preservation Coalition. ''That's very different. A standard housing counseling agency runs ads with their phone number, saying, 'Call us if you're thinking of buying a house.' They reach out and say, come in.''
 The Neighborhood Initiative increased its visibility through a local newsletter and a banner over the main drag: ''We Don't Buy Houses. We Help You Save Yours.'' Working with other housing organizations and using public records, the agency began to identify and contact residents with high-interest or adjustable-rate mortgages, offering free counseling and access to low-cost alternatives.
 ''We preach that if you even dream you're going to be late on your mortgage, call me,'' Mr. Miller said. ''The key is to contact us in time to do something about it. Don't call two days before foreclosure.''
 The foreclosure crisis has been hard on counselors, and some veterans are burning out, said Lisa R. Evans, deputy director of St. Ambrose Housing Aid Center Inc., Baltimore's oldest nonprofit housing group. 
 ''Volume has doubled or tripled,'' she said. ''Families in the past were losing their homes because they lost a job or had a medical expense. You could fix that with a couple thousand dollars. But now we have families coming in where the loan is two times the value of the property, and there was never any income, and there's just nothing you can do for that person. One counselor said, 'I'm exhausted.' And the phone keeps ringing.'' 
 In January, Belair-Edison hired a second housing counselor, and Mr. Miller said the volume of calls keeps rising. But he said he had not grown disheartened. 
 On a recent Saturday morning, he led 11 aspiring first-time home buyers in a five-hour homeownership workshop. If they also attend his one-on-one counseling, they can qualify for up to $10,000 in public and private aid for down payments and closing costs. 
 In private, Mr. Miller talks forcefully about the predatory loans he has seen in this neighborhood. But to the class, he took a different tack. 
 ''When people say it's the banks, or it's the lenders, or it's the real estate agents -- it's not their fault. You're the one who said, 'I want it.' ''
 Many subprime mortgages taken out in 2006 will adjust this year, and Belair-Edison remains a neighborhood at risk. But Eric Johnson, who was listening to Mr. Miller, was confident. 
 ''From what I understand, with all that done, this is a good time to buy a home,'' he said. ''This class is a good preparation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer James of the Belair-Edison Neighborhood Initiative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Wilbert Savage outside his home in East Baltimore. He and his wife, Patricia, recently sought help when their loan payments rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Aspiring first-time home buyers at a home-owning workshop in an area of Baltimore hit hard by the subprime mortgage crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VETERANS LOANS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); RETAILERS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (64%); LOTTERIES (60%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



641 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Spaghetti Stir-Fry and Hambagoo: Japan Looks West

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
 IN New York or Los Angeles, fans of Japanese cuisine can rattle off orders for uni and o-toro, or urbanely express a preference for soba over udon. But what about ''Napolitan,'' cooked spaghetti that is rinsed in cold water, then stir-fried with vegetables in ketchup? Or ''menchi katsu,'' hamburger covered in bread crumbs and deep-fried? Or ''omu rice,'' an omelet lying over a mound of ketchup-flavored rice? 
 At once familiar and alien, these dishes may make Americans feel, with some justification, that they have wandered into a parallel culinary universe. All are standards of a style of Japanese cuisine known as yoshoku, or ''Western food,'' in which European or American dishes were imported and, in true Japanese fashion, shaped and reshaped to fit local tastes.
 Today yoshoku is thoroughly Japanese. It is a staple of television cooking shows and mainstream magazines. The lines outside venerable upscale yoshoku restaurants here in Tokyo are as long as ever, mostly with older Japanese for whom yoshoku provided a first taste of a Western world they had not seen. Yoshoku restaurants are also a requisite of the trendiest new shopping districts, like Midtown and Roppongi Hills, where they cater to younger Japanese whose mothers made the food at home. 
 And yet it is virtually unknown to foreigners. The first Michelin guide to Tokyo, published in the fall of 2007, listed 150 restaurants; not one was a yoshoku establishment. Indeed, visitors to Japan seldom enter the places where yoshoku is served: homes, chain diners, family-owned neighborhood restaurants or upscale yoshoku establishments of long standing. Outside Japan, yoshoku is rarely seen except in former Japanese colonies like South Korea and Taiwan, which were introduced to Western cuisine through Japan.
 Shiseido Parlor is a storied yoshoku establishment in the heart of Tokyo's Ginza district, a restaurant to which many Japanese make a pilgrimage at least once. But the restaurant, the flagship of what is now a chain, is rarely mentioned in Western travel guides, and few Westerners ever wander in. 
 ''Probably this thing called 'yoshoku' is difficult to grasp from a foreigner's perspective,'' said Tatsuya Yokokawa, an executive at Shiseido Parlor. ''If it's not traditional Japanese cuisine, and it's neither French nor Italian, they're thinking, What is it? And so they're unlikely to give it a try.''
 But the story of yoshoku goes beyond the familiar one of fusion cuisine. It sheds light on Japan's tumultuous modern history, from its traumatic early encounters with the West to its often uneasy embrace of Western values. 
 Yoshoku was born during Japan's Meiji Restoration, the period that followed this isolationist country's forced opening by America's so-called Black Ships in 1854. Japanese were dispatched to Europe and America to learn about Western laws, weapons and industry. They also brought back the cuisine. Shocked to discover how much shorter they were than Westerners, Japanese determined that they would catch up not only economically and militarily but also physically, by eating their food.
 That desire survived at least until the 1970's, when a businessman named Den Fujita established McDonald's in Japan and claimed that its menu would make Japanese as tall and attractive as Americans.
 ''Japanese are poorly built because they eat rice,'' he said at the time. ''We'll change that with hamburgers. After eating hamburgers for a thousand years, Japanese will even have blond hair.''
 The yoshoku category is broad, and includes dishes that have become so integral to the diet that many Japanese wouldn't consider them Japanized Western food at all, but simply Japanese food.
 Still, all yoshoku dishes have their roots in Western counterparts. A key ingredient or a step in the cooking has been altered, or violated outright, with surprisingly delicious results. Instead of being served as soon as it is cooked, Napolitan spaghetti is allowed to sit, then reheated and stir-fried with vegetables; it was the only pasta known to most Japanese until a couple of decades ago, when ketchup was still widely considered an Italian sauce. Done well, menchi katsu, bread crumb-covered ground beef, or tonkatsu, a thicker version of pork cutlet, are deep-fried but manage to remain juicy inside.
 A demiglace sauce with tomato juice served over hashed beef was named hayashi sauce -- because the words sounded similar, by one theory, though a rival one suggests that it was the invention of a Mr. Hayashi. A stewlike curry with onions, potatoes and carrots, served over rice, became ''kare rice.'' 
 Hamburgers were considered American food and called ''hambagah,'' but the yoshoku version was called ''hambagoo.'' (The burger was served without the bun and often covered with demiglace -- the real thing at expensive restaurants, but mostly out of a bottle elsewhere.) Au gratin dishes, breaded oysters and various croquettes -- cream of crab croquettes with white sauce is considered a classic -- rounded out the yoshoku menu.
 Most yoshoku dishes can be accompanied by rice and eaten with chopsticks, although better yoshoku restaurants have silverware and an option offered only in this style of Japanese cuisine: ''rice or bread.'' The dishes come with traditional Western sauces, or their Japanized versions, like demiglace, white sauce, Worcestershire or ketchup.
 The yoshoku menu has changed little over the decades, said Hiroshi Modegi, 40, whose grandfather founded Taimeiken, a famous yoshoku restaurant in Tokyo's Nihonbashi district, in 1931.
 ''Our customers want the old favorites,'' said Mr. Modegi, now the restaurant's head chef, explaining that nostalgia was a big part of yoshoku's appeal. ''It's O.K. to change the menu once in a while, but not too much, because they're basically coming here to eat things like your standard omu rice.''
 The standard fare, though, is fairly new, considering the stretch of Japan's history. For 1,200 years, an imperial edict banned the eating of meat because of a Japanese Buddhist belief that it was unclean. Fish was central to the Japanese diet, and meat was consumed furtively, only for medicinal purposes.
 Then in 1872, the emperor lifted the ban.
 ''To catch up with and overtake the superior culture of the West, Emperor Meiji believed that eating habits had to be changed first,'' said Tetsu Okada, an expert on Japan's culinary culture and an author of a history on tonkatsu. ''He told everyone to eat meat, and to get the ball rolling, ate it himself.''
 The first Japanese to go overseas brought back dishes -- filled with meat, butter, unfamiliar spices and other ingredients utterly foreign to the Japanese diet -- that eventually became the basis of yoshoku. In contrast, Japan's neighbors, China and Korea, dealt with the threat from the West by first rejecting it. To this day, neither Chinese nor Korean cuisine has much Western influence.
 Japan borrowed from Germany to modernize its legal system and from Britain to reform its military and industry. For the food that would eventually become yoshoku, it looked mostly to France. But the cuisine had other, unexpected sources. The Japanese Imperial Navy, which modeled itself after Britain's, is said to have introduced to Japanese of the late 19th century a dish popular among British naval officers: Indian curry, which eventually became the kare rice eaten in homes, school cafeterias and restaurants today.
 ''It wasn't curry from India, but curry from Europe, that we now find everywhere in this country,'' said Takeshi Ninomiya, the executive chef at Nakamuraya, a famous Indian curry restaurant in Tokyo. ''This dish that came from Britain, and was considered Western food, was then assimilated here.''
 Yoshoku's popularity reached its peak in the decades following World War II. For mothers, it was easier to prepare than traditional Japanese food. For children, a big treat was an ''okosama lunch,'' or ''kid's lunch,'' at a department store restaurant, consisting of small portions on a single plate of Napolitan spaghetti, hambagoo and ketchup-flavored rice with a little flag of a country like Switzerland or New Zealand on top.
 Meanwhile, in the decades before most Japanese could afford to fly overseas, upscale yoshoku restaurants grew into symbols of the longed-for, glamorous Western world. The most famous, Shiseido Parlor, became a gathering place for artists, intellectuals and writers, and appeared in the work of many novelists, including Yasunari Kawabata and Yukio Mishima. Ordinary Japanese dined there, blowing a week's salary on a meal.
 ''Japanese who had never set their eyes on this thing called the Western world probably used their imagination and were able to see it in yoshoku,'' Mr. Yokokawa of Shiseido Parlor said.
 Until the economic boom of the 1970's and 1980's, yoshoku was the only version of Western food known to many Japanese. Ingredients to make authentic French or Italian dishes were simply unavailable. Before expressions like ''pasta'' and ''al dente'' became known in Japan, there was only Napolitan spaghetti or ''spaghetti with meat sauce.''
 That changed in the 1980's, when the yen grew so strong that Japan could import anything from anywhere. Restaurateurs from all over the world began gravitating here. Nowadays, in a neighborhood like Roppongi, you can find just about anything: French and Italian, American steaks, even Nigerian pounded yam and egusi soup.
 But this does not mean yoshoku is in danger of disappearing. In fact, yoshoku dishes make up the bulk of the menus at Japan's biggest chain diners, or family restaurants, like Jonathan's, Royal Host and Denny's.
 That's right: Denny's. Several years after arriving in Japan in the 1970's, Denny's gave up its American fare for a menu heavy on yoshoku. So, as some homesick Americans seeking comfort food have found out, a Denny's in Japan has no Grand Slam breakfasts or hamburgers.
 But it's just the place to go when you want omu rice, Napolitan spaghetti and a hambagoo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WESTERN ROOTS: Patrons at Taimeiken in Tokyo dine on, from top, an omelet with ketchup, beef croquettes and shrimp-macaroni gratin. Hiroshi Modegi, above, carries on a family tradition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); HISTORY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); TAIWAN (69%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



642 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Cross-Strait Opening

 BODY:
Taiwan's voters have given themselves and China a chance for a healthy, new start. Last week, they elected a president who promised to strengthen relations with the mainland -- while ensuring the autonomy of Taiwan's vibrant democracy. That should be a relief for both sides of the straits. 
 Over the last decade, Taipei's push toward independence and Beijing's rhetorical bullying and real military buildup -- including 1,000 missiles pointed at the island -- fanned tensions and fears of war. The two governments must now seize this opportunity to build a productive new relationship.
 Ma Ying-jeou, the Nationalist Party leader and Harvard-educated lawyer, won 58 percent of the vote by arguing that Taiwan's best hope of boosting economic growth lies in closer relations with the mainland. He has advanced an ambitious agenda that includes regular direct flights, increased tourism and expanded commercial ties. 
 He is also talking about confidence-building measures -- a hot line is one idea -- that would reduce the chance of an accidental military confrontation. In the longer term, he says the two governments should negotiate a peace accord that would formally end hostilities dating from 1949 when the Nationalists fled to Taiwan after the Communists took over Beijing. 
 As for independence, Mr. Ma has sensibly said the issue would probably not be settled in his lifetime and has called for a diplomatic framework in which the two sides simply acknowledge each other's existence. 
 Taiwan's departing president, Chen Shui-bian, has spent much of the last eight years baiting Beijing, talking about independence and pressing for international recognition. Beijing has been more than eager to take offense. As his final gambit, Mr. Chen insisted on a national referendum on whether the island should seek to join the United Nations under the name of Taiwan, instead of its legal name, the Republic of China. The Security Council, where China has a veto, would never have accepted this, and Taiwan's voters rejected the idea by a substantial margin in last week's election. 
 Beijing, which considers Taiwan a breakaway province, predictably denounced the referendum and made more threats. 
 Taiwan has long been a difficult and potentially dangerous issue for the United States. Washington recognizes ''one China'' but sells arms to Taiwan and is its main military protector. The Bush administration is already pressing Beijing to work with Mr. Ma. China's leaders should listen. 
 China's authoritarian ways are backfiring in Tibet, where years of repression have fueled anti-Beijing protests. Whatever Beijing's fantasies about unification, it is not likely to happen soon -- and maybe not ever -- given Taiwan's strong commitment to political and economic freedom. China would be better off following Mr. Ma's lead and pursue practical ways to build more stable ties, including a drawdown of those missiles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); LAWYERS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); TOURISM (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



643 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TheBusinessOfGreen; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Millions of Jobs Of a Different Collar

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows what blue-collar and white-collar jobs are, but now a job of another hue -- green -- has entered the lexicon.
 Presidential candidates talk about the promise of ''green collar'' jobs -- an economy with millions of workers installing solar panels, weatherizing homes, brewing biofuels, building hybrid cars and erecting giant wind turbines. Labor unions view these new jobs as replacements for positions lost to overseas manufacturing and outsourcing. Urban groups view training in green jobs as a route out of poverty. And environmentalists say they are crucial to combating climate change.
 No doubt that the number of green-collar jobs is growing, as homeowners, business and industry shift toward conservation and renewable energy. And the numbers are expected to increase greatly in the next few decades, because state governments have mandated that even more energy come from alternative sources.
 But some skeptics argue that the phrase ''green jobs'' is little more than a trendy term for politicians and others to bandy about. Some say they are not sure that these jobs will have the staying power to help solve the problems of the nation's job market, and others note that green jobs often pay less than the old manufacturing jobs they are replacing. 
 Indeed, such is the novelty of the green-job concept that no one is certain how many such jobs there are, and even advocates don't always agree on what makes a job green.
 ''A green-collar job is in essence a blue-collar job that has been upgraded to address the environmental challenges of our country,'' said Lucy Blake, chief executive of the Apollo Alliance, a coalition of environmental groups, labor unions and politicians seeking to transform the economy into one based on renewable energy. 
 Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, said: ''A green job has to do something useful for people, and it has to be helpful to, or at least not damaging to, the environment.''
 It can be difficult to parse the difference between green- and blue-collar jobs. Dave Foster, executive director of the Blue Green Alliance, a partnership between the United Steelworkers and the Sierra Club, pointed to workers who mine iron ore in Minnesota and ship it to steel mills in Indiana. ''Ten years ago, that steel was used for making low-efficiency automobiles, so those jobs were part of the dirty economy,'' he said. ''But now that steel is being used to build wind turbines. So now you can call them green jobs.''
 But to Andrew W. Hannah, chief executive of Plextronics, a start-up in Pittsburgh, green-collar jobs often have little relation to their blue-collar counterparts. His company produces high-tech polymer inks that are used to make electronic circuitry for solar panels. Of the company's 51 employees, 20 have Ph.D.'s in fields like physics, chemistry and material science. 
 It is hard to gauge the number of green-collar jobs nationwide. Welders at a wind-turbine factory are viewed as having green jobs, but what about the factory's accountant or its janitors? Workers with Sustainable South Bronx, a nonprofit group that plants vegetation to keep the area cooler and reduce air-conditioning demands, would seem to fit the bill. But so would the employees of Tesla Motors, south of San Francisco, who are producing an all-electric Roadster that sells for $98,000.
 In the most-often-cited estimate, a report commissioned by the American Solar Energy Society said that the nation had 8.5 million jobs in renewable energy or energy efficient industries. And Jerome Ringo, president of the Apollo Alliance, predicted that the nation could generate three million to five million more green jobs over the next 10 years.
 Green jobs are especially good ''because they cannot be easily outsourced, say, to Asia,'' said Van Jones, president of Green for All, an organization based in Oakland, Calif., whose goal is promoting renewable energy and lifting workers out of poverty. ''If we are going to weatherize buildings, they have to be weatherized here,'' he said. ''If you put up solar panels, you can't ship a building to Asia and have them put the solar panels on and ship it back. These jobs have to be done in the United States.''
 Many advocates of green employment say the jobs should be good for the workers as well as the environment. Two weeks ago in Pittsburgh, more than 800 people attended a national green-jobs conference, where much of the talk was about ensuring that green jobs provided living wages. Many speakers anticipated that the jobs would do so, because they often required special skills, like the technical ability to maintain a giant wind turbine (and the physical ability to climb a 20-story ladder to work on it).
 ''These jobs will be better for the workers' future, for their job security,'' said Ms. Blake of the Apollo Alliance. ''These green technologies are making products that the world wants, like energy-efficient buildings and light fixtures.'' 
 Not everyone, however, is enamored with green jobs. Take the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a Washington group that opposes state mandates requiring that a certain percentage of power come from renewable sources. Myron Ebell, the institute's director of energy and global warming policy, argues that creating green jobs often does not create jobs on a net basis. 
 ''If you create jobs in wind power or ethanol,'' he said, ''that will take away jobs in other industries,'' like building and operating conventional gas turbine power plants.
 Mr. Ebell suggested that green jobs might not prove to be so great. ''There will undoubtedly be a lot of jobs created in industries that are considered green or fashionable,'' he said. ''Some will last a long time, and some will go like the dot-coms.''
 Twenty-eight states have mandates generally requiring that 10 to 25 percent of their energy be obtained through renewable sources in a decade or two. In response, many companies have rushed to build wind- and solar-power systems, and some are researching how to transform prairie grass into biofuel. 
 Joy Clark-Holmes, director of public sector markets for Johnson Controls, which manages heating and cooling systems in buildings nationwide, sees strong job growth in the green economy. Her company's building efficiency business, she said, expects to hire 60,000 workers worldwide over the next decade. 
 ''We see the market for greening our customers as growing,'' Ms. Clark-Holmes said. She talked of demand for technicians who install and maintain heating and cooling systems, managers who oversee those functions and engineers who develop and design such systems.
 With scientists voicing increased concern about climate change, some highly talented people have left other fields to help build the green economy. For instance, Lois Quam, who helped create and run a $30 billion division of UnitedHealth Group, a health insurer, has joined the renewable energy cause, becoming managing director for alternative investments at Piper Jaffray, an investment bank based in Minneapolis. She is setting up investment funds that focus on renewable energy and clean energy.
 ''The development of a green economy creates a broad new set of opportunities,'' Ms. Quam said. ''When I first started looking at this area, many people commented on how this will be as big as the Internet. But this is so much bigger than the Internet. The only comparable example we can find is the Industrial Revolution. It will affect every business and every industry.'' 
 Mr. Jones, the head of Green for All, joined the green economy after graduating from Yale Law School. He became executive director of the Ella Baker Center for Human Rights in Oakland, using that position to start a program that trains low-income workers in how to weatherize homes and install solar panels.
 Mr. Jones calls such jobs green pathways out of poverty. ''The green economy needs Ph.D.'s and Ph.-do's,'' he said. ''We need people who are highly educated at the theoretical level, and we need people who are highly educated at the level of skilled labor.''
 He sees green jobs as providing a career ladder. Some workers might start at $10 an hour inspecting homes for energy-efficient light bulbs. Then they might become $18-an-hour workers installing solar panels and eventually $25-an-hour solar-team managers. Eventually they might become $40-an-hour electricians or carpenters who do energy-minded renovations.
 ''Right now we don't have the infrastructure to train a sufficient number of green-collar workers,'' Mr. Jones said.
 As the green economy grows, states are vying for green investments -- and green jobs. Pennsylvania has been especially successful, attracting German and Taiwanese companies that are building solar equipment factories, as well as attracting Gamesa, a Spanish wind turbine company. Gamesa has two factories in the state, employing 1,300 workers. Facing pressure from the United Steelworkers, which views the greening of the economy as a way to increase union membership, Gamesa agreed not to fight an organizing drive, and now many workers are unionized.
 Pennsylvania's efforts have been helped by the presence of many skilled manufacturing workers in the state and its commitment to having 18.5 percent of its power come from renewable sources by 2020.
 ''We have gone after this sector first and foremost because the green of the sector is important, because it is the green that goes into the pocketbooks and wallets of workers,'' said Kathleen McGinty, the state's environmental secretary. ''They are good-paying jobs, jobs that often require advanced skills.''
 Jim Bauer, 55, is delighted to work for Gamesa. There he leads a team that assembles parts for wind turbines, earning slightly less than he did at United States Steel, which laid him off from his crane operator's job after 25 years. Now he earns $17 an hour in his job, while many assembly workers earn $13.50 an hour.
 ''It feels good working for a company that is bringing jobs into the country instead of taking jobs out of the country,'' Mr. Bauer said.
 He admits to feeling noble doing a green job. ''We have to get away from fossil fuels and oil so we can tell the Saudis to take a hike,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW LABOR: Jim Albert, a technician for General Electric, climbing to the top of a wind turbine in Sweetwater, Tex., where the turbines stand as tall as 20-story buildings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.H1)
 RAISING THE ROOF: James Wells of Sustainable South Bronx, a nonprofit group that plants vegetation in the area, working on a Bronx rooftop garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.H4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); BIOMASS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); BIOFUELS (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%); IRON MINING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



644 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 YOU MIGHT NOT WANT TO TRY
 A Jump-Start With Those
 They were supposed to be helicopter batteries, but instead four high-tech electrical fuses for Minuteman nuclear warheads were sent to Taiwan last year, a mistake discovered only last week. It's the latest embarrassment for the people in charge of America's nuclear weapons, and China, already skittish about American intentions toward Taiwan, is not expected to find it amusing. PAGE A13 
 AFGHAN AID CALLED LAGGING
 Donor countries pledged $25 billion to Afghanistan in nonmilitary aid from 2002 to 2008, but only $15 billion has been disbursed, according to a report. The United States is more than $5 billion behind but says the aid is ''on track.'' The report partly faults security concerns and Afghan corruption. PAGE A10 
 WHISTLES FOR PROTECTION
 The police in Thailand, responding to a series of sexual assaults and killings and their feared impact on tourism, say they will hand out whistles to foreign women who visit. And a commander of the national tourist police implied that some women had put themselves at risk by visiting secluded areas and dressing scantily. PAGE A8
 A STINK ABOUT CHEESE
 It is perhaps an unusual pairing: the local Naples organized crime group that makes money illegally dumping trash, and possibly contaminated mozzarella made from buffalo milk. But concern about the economic impact of the cheese is focusing attention on the criminal goings-on. PAGE A8
 BALLOTING AND BEATINGS
 Voters go to the polls on Saturday in Zimbabwe, with some already certain that regardless of balloting the deck has been stacked for President Robert Mugabe, who has held power for 28 years. Meanwhile there are the usual pre-election outreach efforts, which can mean pummelings and ax attacks. PAGE A12
 Pakistan's 'New Sheriff' PAGE A7
 Rice Shortage in Philippines PAGE A12 
 NATIONAL
 COURT RULING ALLOWS MORE WATER FOR FISH
 Fish won a court victory when a federal judge in Missouri allowed the planned release of hundreds of thousands of gallons of water from an upstream dam into the Missouri River, intended to assist the river's sturgeon population. Lawyers for the state, which had flooding last week, argued that more water was not a priority. PAGE A15
 COPING WITH DIFFERENCES
 Some Muslims in America who fear prejudice have, like many parents concerned about perceived social ills there, turned from public schools to home schooling. But other Muslims say their children are better off staying in the system and worry that home schooling furthers a perception of Muslim extremism. PAGE A14
 ANOTHER DEADLY CRANE COLLAPSE
 Two construction workers died and five were injured when a seven-ton section of crane fell 30 stories onto a Miami home. A spokesman said that the cause was unknown, but that the circumstances appeared to differ from those of a New York City collapse 10 days earlier that left seven dead.PAGE A16
 AN APPEAL REJECTED
 At issue, in legal terms, were international law, federalism and the separation of powers. A result of the Supreme Court's ruling, in practical terms, was that a Mexican on death row in Texas need not be given a new hearing, despite the wishes of a former Texas governor, who happens to be the current president. PAGE A16
 GRIM OUTLOOK FOR BENEFITS
 Grim Bush administration reports on the financial outlook for Medicare and Social Security that echoed those issued last April may put pressure on the presidential candidates to say what they would do to rein in health costs and to shore up the programs. PAGE A15
 H.I.V. Vaccine Prospects PAGE 14
 Obama's Cousin Brad? PAGE A14
 Ducking the Fallout PAGE A19
 METRO 
 PANEL SAYS FORMER OFFICIAL CAN CONTINUE CITY PROJECTS
 New York City's Conflicts of Interest Board has ruled that former Deputy Mayor Daniel Doctoroff, who left City Hall to take the chief executive's job at Mayor Michael Bloomberg's private company, can stay involved in several city matters, despite laws that typically prohibit former officials from conducting business with the city. PAGE B1 
 E AND Q LINES ARE CITY'S GRIMIEST
 Wet sticky spots on the floor, chicken bones, peanut and pistachio shells, hot dogs and ''lots and lots of rolling bottles'' are among the conditions that greet subway passengers who travel on the E and Q lines, rated the dirtiest lines in the New York City subway system, according to the latest survey of subway car cleanliness. PAGE B3 
 SPITZER DISCLOSURES SOUGHT
 Gov. David A. Paterson has been asked by the Albany County district attorney to grant waivers that would allow the district attorney to make public his findings in his latest investigation of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer's administration. One of the waivers the district attorney is seeking relates to e-mails and other material gathered in response to a grand jury subpoena. PAGE B3 
 SCREENING FINGERPRINTS AT J.F.K
 The Department of Homeland Security has started requiring 80 percent of foreign citizens arriving at Kennedy International Airport to give fingerprints of all 10 fingers, not just of two index fingers. The system is being tested at nine other major airports in the United States and has been under some form of testing since 2004. It will be reviewed for final approval this December. PAGE B1 
 A Do-It-Yourself SAT Class PAGE B5 
 BUSINESS
 HOUSE PRICES ARE FALLING, BUT ARE THEY DOWN ENOUGH?
 Houses occupy an emotional spot with owners unlike any other asset. Try to imagine tearing up as you drive away from some stock you just sold (unless, of course, you took a beating on it). But that's part of the reason housing prices, despite their decline, are still about 10 percent too high, David Leonhardt writes. PAGE C1
 A NATURAL NEXT STEP
 It could turn out to be one of those things you'll kick yourself for not thinking of first: WePlay.com, a social networking site focusing on youth athletes and the parents and coaches who serve them, is to kick off next month. And grown-up athletes like Peyton Manning and LeBron James will be part of the package in photos and videos. PAGE C1
 MOVING THE SUPPLY SIDE
 The notion that cutting taxes will increase tax revenue -- supply-side economics -- is one economists and politicians readily debate, with the politicians aligning in unsurprising fashion. But the focus of the strategy for Republicans has shifted from the taxpaying workers of Reagan's day to the wealthiest Americans today. PAGE C1
 Partly Off the Grid PAGE C7
 Drug Tracking Delayed PAGE C4
 Pro Bono Path to the Top PAGE C4
 SPORTS
 JUST A COUPLE OF ARTSY TYPES WHO LOOK DOWN ON PEOPLE
 Brook Lopez is the writer, actor and saxophonist. His twin brother, Robin, is the aspiring artist. Both also happen to be 7 feet tall, so of late their fine-arts concerns are playing second fiddle to their primary activity, leading Stanford into the Round of 16 of the N.C.A.A. tournament. PAGE D1
 DODGERS BACK IN OLD DIGS
 The Dodgers and Red Sox will play an exhibition game Saturday night, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Dodgers' move to Los Angeles. The scene will be the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, where the Dodgers set up after leaving (abandoning?) Brooklyn, and things will be much the same. Oh, with the left field wall about 50 feet closer than then. PAGE D2
 ENHANCING CANSECO
 Jose Canseco has put together another book, and his latest revelations are that he introduced Alex Rodriguez to a known steroids supplier, that he injected Magglio Ordonez with steroids, and that he doesn't know if Roger Clemens used steroids, but that he talked about them a lot. PAGE D1
 Pride and U.S. Basketball PAGE D5
 ARTS
 A DISTANT THIRD, CBS NEWS 
 Pins Its Hopes on Debate
 What's going on at CBS News? ''The Early Show'' is routinely trounced in the ratings by the other networks and ''CBS Evening News'' is a mainstay in last place even after the high-profile hiring of Katie Couric. Still, people in the news division are hopeful that landing a Democratic primary debate could give its ratings a needed jolt. PAGE E1 
 FAME, OFF THE BOOKS
 Chetan Bhagat is an unlikely literary heavyweight, an investment banker who has quietly nursed a passion for writing. The product of his secret toiling, ''Five Point Someone,'' was a racy, comedic little novel. Now Mr. Bhagat is the biggest-selling English language novelist in India's history, but he hasn't quit his day job. PAGE E3 
 EAST AND WEST, ENDURING OPPOSITES
 In his new book, ''Worlds at War,'' the British historian Anthony Pagden calls the East and West ''equally amorphous,'' and traces the long histories of misunderstandings and armed conflicts all the way to when Paris abducted Helen, provoking the Trojan War. A review by William Grimes. PAGE E1 
 ROUSING THE GREEN-EYED MONSTER
 Charles Isherwood reviews the new play ''The Four of Us,'' in which two buddies -- both writers -- find themselves at odds when one becomes a very well-compensated literary celebrity while the other nurses his own bruised ego. PAGE E6 
 DINING
 FEEDING FAMILY AND FRIENDS 
 On (Mostly) 99-Cent Grub
 As a culinary/financial experiment, the appeal is undeniable: can a 99-cent store provide the basics for a week's worth of eating, topped off by a dinner for friends? What to do about the lack of flour and fresh vegetables? And can a soybean oil-butter blend called Admiration help turn out an edible souffle? Well. ... PAGE F1
 WHAT'S IN THAT BOTTLE, KID?
 Parents might reasonably hope to introduce their children to the passions they hold dear, an effort to pass along a Yankees pedigree, say. But if one of those passions happens to be wine, Eric Asimov writes, slippery-slope fears of binge drinking complicate the issue. PAGE F1
 YOU WANT FRIES WITH THAT?
 If turnabout is fair play (and here's saying that, in food at least, it is) then Japan's yoshoku, or ''Western food,'' is fair exchange for Americanized versions of various cuisines. ''Napolitan,'' for instance: cooked spaghetti rinsed in cold water, then stir-fried with vegetables in ketchup. Or ''omu rice'': an omelet lying over a mound of ketchup-flavored rice. Yum? PAGE F4
 Restaurant Review: Mas PAGE F7
 Food as Performance Art PAGE F6
 OBITUARIES
 HAL RINEY, 75
 An iconoclastic copywriter who helped build San Francisco into a creative center for advertising with low-key, upbeat campaigns for Saturn cars, Bartles & Jaymes wine coolers and the re-election of President Ronald Reagan, died on Monday at his home in San Francisco. PAGE A21
 Business of Green
 WHAT EXACTLY IS A 'GREEN-COLLAR' JOB, ANYWAY?
 The presidential candidates have waxed optimistic about an influx of ''green-collar'' jobs. But what kind of jobs are they talking about? Blue-collar professions updated for environmentally sustainable purposes? High-tech research careers that promote clean energy? And would the creation of such jobs create jobs on a net basis? PAGE H1
 FINANCING A SOLAR BOOM
 For all of solar power's upside -- it's simple, clean and easy to install -- the cost of making solar panels has kept it from catching on. To that end, some solar power companies are playing financial middlemen and coming up with creative financing arrangements to sweeten the pot for buyers eager for greener power. PAGE H1
 SCRUBBING'S STRANGE BEDFELLOWS
 When one thinks of environmental sustainability, they probably don't think of Clorox. But the cleaning product company is looking to change that by introducing its Green Works line of natural products. The new products have even garnered a stamp of approval from the Sierra Club, a move that rankled some in the environmental group. PAGE H2
 SAVE THE EARTH? NOT WITH MY CASH
 Environmental sustainability doesn't necessarily bode well for the bottom line. Two Dartmouth professors found that after companies announced green goals, share prices were more likely to drop than to rise. The more aggressively green the objective, the sharper the dip in stock price. PAGE H2
 TAKING CARBON INTO THE RED
 Forget being ''carbon neutral'' and bringing net greenhouse emissions to zero. Some researchers want to go a step further and reach ''carbon negative,'' to create the ultimate green businesses -- those that produce fuel whose emissions are more than offset by carbon dioxide stored during production. PAGE H7
 EDITORIALS
 CROSS-STRAIT OPENING
 Taiwan's voters gave themselves and China a chance for a healthy new start when they elected a president who promised to strengthen relations with the mainland -- while ensuring the autonomy of Taiwan's vibrant democracy. That should be a relief for both sides of the straits. PAGE A22
 SAFEGUARDING PRIVATE MEDICAL DATA
 A stolen government laptop containing the private health data of 2,500 patients underscores the need for a strong federal law to protect medical privacy, and for greater responsibility by those who handle important medical information. PAGE A22
 CAMPAIGN MONITOR GOES MISSING
 Money wise, this is an eerily liberating time to be running for president or Congress. Donations are being harvested and spent at a record rate while the Federal Election Commission -- the campaign's designated referee -- has been reduced to a nonentity. PAGE A22

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); SHERIFFS (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CHILDREN (73%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); LITIGATION (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); PARENTS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); RELIGION (64%); JUDGES (63%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); ZIMBABWE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



645 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Aid to College Students

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Timothy Egan's dismissal of the unprecedented round of new student aid initiatives at private colleges and universities as cosmetic belies any reasonable interpretation of the word and calls for a reality check (''The Lords of Higher Learning,'' column, March 18). 
 Senator Chuck Grassley himself praised Harvard's decision in December to replace all loans with grants for undergraduates as ''big news'' and said that ''students and parents are the winners, with Yale announcing significant increases in financial aid'' in January. 
 The New York Times reported on March 11 that Columbia University's decision to replace loans with grants in financial aid packages and recent financial aid announcements had ''reshaped the financial aid landscape for students entering college next year.''
 Since 2007, dozens of private colleges and universities have replaced loans with grants or expanded aid for middle- and upper-middle-class students. In several instances, these were enhancements -- made possible recently by healthy endowment gains -- to aid initiatives begun earlier this decade. 
 Those private institutions without large endowments are taking other creative steps to enhance their affordability -- freezing or cutting tuition, guaranteeing that a student's tuition won't increase while they are enrolled, or offering three-year accelerated bachelor's degree programs, among others.
 Nevertheless, institutions cannot ensure access and affordability on their own. Financing for the maximum Pell Grant award and other federal aid programs have not kept up with inflation over this decade. Students at private colleges and universities receive $5 in institutionally provided grant aid for every dollar they receive from the federal government. Twenty years ago, that ratio was 1 to 1. 
 The performance of the stock market, sour economic forecast and student loan crunch, combined with a student population that will become increasingly minority and low-income over the next decade, means challenging financial times ahead for higher education. Students and families have spoken, and private institutions are responding with significant resources, and in ways that will be felt for years to come. 
 It is time for Congress to do its part to keep higher education affordable, and reinvest in student financial aid. 
 David L. Warren President, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities Washington, March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); FAMILY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



646 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: An Investment Banker Finds Fame Off the Books

BYLINE: By DONALD GREENLEES

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Until about four years ago, Chetan Bhagat was an investment banker distinguished from the suited phalanx in this city's crowded financial district only by his secret hobby. 
 While others planned weekend excursions to the golf course, Mr. Bhagat, then employed by Goldman Sachs, indulged a passion for writing, laboring in his private time on a racy, comedic little novel about life on the campus of an elite college in his native India. In the early morning, before going to the office, he would work on draft after draft of the book, trying to get it right. He did 15 drafts in all.
 Today Mr. Bhagat is still an investment banker, now with Deutsche Bank. But he has also become the biggest-selling English-language novelist in India's history, according to his publisher, Rupa & Company, one of India's oldest and best established publishers. His story of campus life, ''Five Point Someone,'' published in 2004, and a later novel, ''One Night @ the Call Center,'' sold a combined one million copies. 
 Less than three days after the release in 2005 of ''One Night,'' another slim comedy, about love and life in India's ubiquitous call centers, the entire initial print run of 50,000 copies was snapped up, setting a record for the country's fastest-selling book. And Ballantine has published a paperback edition of the novel in the United States. 
 Mr. Bhagat, who wrote his books while living here, has difficulty explaining why a 35-year-old investment banker writing in his spare time has had such phenomenal success reaching an audience of mainly middle-class Indians in their 20s. The novels, deliberately sentimental in the tradition of Bollywood filmmaking, are priced like an Indian movie ticket -- just 100 rupees, or $2.46 -- and have won little praise as literature. 
 ''The book critics, they all hate me,'' Mr. Bhagat said in an interview here. 
 But he has touched a nerve with young Indian readers. Mr. Bhagat might not be another Vikram Seth or Arundhati Roy, but he has authentic claims to being one of the voices of a generation of middle-class Indian youth facing the choices and frustrations that come with the prospect of growing wealth. 
 ''I think people really took to the books mainly because there is a lot of social comment in there,'' Mr. Bhagat said. ''It's garbed as comedy.'' 
 Mr. Bhagat's choice of subjects for his first two books -- life at a highly competitive Indian Institute of Technology and at a call center -- allowed him to explore some perennial themes: the pressures, many of them parental, to get into a top school, earn high grades, get a good job and find the right partner, while still taking time to enjoy one's youth. 
 He described the members of the country's current young generation as ''more gutsy'' than their parents, and as interesting as the generation that led India to independence in 1947. 
 But the competition among them is severe. Mr. Bhagat said that only 1 out of 700 applicants now gets into the Indian Institute of Management he attended in Ahmedabad, compared with 1 in 200 when he applied in 1995. That experience and his undergraduate studies at the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi are the inspiration for ''Five Point Someone: What Not to Do at IIT,'' the title a reference to the struggle his three main characters have with low grades. 
 The pressures to succeed are part of what is making India a vibrant, fast-changing economy and society, Mr. Bhagat said. But ''competition has its limits,'' he added. 
 Recently, after more than 10 years here, Mr. Bhagat moved with his wife, also a banker, and their 3-year-old twin sons back to India, where he is a director in Deutsche Bank's distressed assets team in Mumbai. When he left India with an M.B.A. to start a banking career here, just before the 1997 Asian economic crisis, there were fewer opportunities at home, even for graduates of the best colleges. 
 Mr. Bhagat now wants to be a part of the historic changes taking place as India awakens to its potential. 
 Still, he sees a lot wrong with the model of economic success. His ''One Night @ the Call Center,'' destined to be a Bollywood film, is, beyond its story line about frustrated office romance, a critique of a nation climbing to prosperity by answering phone calls from American consumers. 
 With each new book Mr. Bhagat is trying to toughen his social criticism. He has just finished writing ''Three Mistakes of My Life,'' a pun of sorts, this being his third novel. But this time he is tackling a far more controversial theme. 
 Set in the western state of Gujarat soon after the bloody sectarian riots of 2002, it deals with issues of tolerance and the confusion Mr. Bhagat believes young Indians feel about religious values. 
 ''India is a very religious country, and older people have extreme views on religion,'' he said. ''Young people are not able to relate to it.'' 
 But true to his form, the story will have a ''very modern twist, Bollywood comedy sort of format,'' he said. ''If you read my books, they are comedies, but very dark.'' 
 The Web chatter and e-mail messages Mr. Bhagat receives about his books suggest that the dark social messages, wrapped in what he described as ''quick reads'' in the style of the humorous British writer Nick Hornby, have been getting through to his young audience. 
 But it is a balancing act, Mr. Bhagat said. His is an audience that grew up with Bollywood and wants a story that ''tugs at the emotions'' rather than moralizes or betrays serious literary ambitions. Mr. Bhagat said he developed his plots by using a computer spread sheet before he sat down to write. 
 Initially, he did get some literary praise, winning a Publisher's Recognition Award and Society Young Achiever's award in India in 2005 for ''Five Point Someone.'' But the first flush of critical success has worn off. Ravi Rao, a critic writing in The Times of India, said Mr. Bhagat had gone from ''candor, easy wit and tight structure'' in his first book to ''a dud'' with his second. 
 Mr. Bhagat and his publisher, Kapish Mehra, of Rupa & Company, have an easy retort to the critics: the books sell. 
 ''He is not a literary writer,'' Mr. Mehra said. ''But, more importantly, he is a successful and popular writer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chetan Bhagat, an Indian investment banker who wrote two popular novels, ''Five Point Someone'' and ''One Night @ the Call Center,'' left, which already has international editions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA SIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (77%); BESTSELLERS (76%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); CALL CENTERS (72%); LITERARY CRITICISM (71%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (57%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



647 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Unlike Rivals, McCain Rejects Broad U.S. Aid on Mortgages

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER and EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Larry Rohter reported from Santa Ana, and Edmund L. Andrews from Washington. Patrick Healy contributed reporting from Greensburg, Pa.

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Drawing a sharp distinction between himself and the two Democratic presidential candidates, Senator John McCain of Arizona warned Tuesday against vigorous government action to solve the deepening mortgage crisis and the market turmoil it has caused, saying that ''it is not the duty of government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whether they are big banks or small borrowers.''
 Mr. McCain's comments came a day after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York called for direct federal intervention to help affected homeowners, including a $30 billion fund for states and communities to assist those at risk of foreclosure. Mrs. Clinton's Democratic opponent, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, has similarly called for greater federal involvement, including creation of a $10 billion relief package to prevent foreclosures.
 As the foreclosure crisis has rippled across the economy, it has thrust itself to the forefront of the presidential race, with Democrats seizing on the issue in urging forceful government steps to alleviate the crisis. Mr. McCain's remarks Tuesday, to a group of Hispanic businessmen here, signaled a sharpening divide between the two parties' candidates, with the senator warning against quick, costly government fixes to a crises rooted in the private sector. 
 ''Rampant speculation'' on both sides is the root cause of the crisis, Mr. McCain said. He placed part of the responsibility for the mortgage mess on lenders, who he said had grown ''complacent'' in a rising market and as a result acquired a ''false sense of security'' that caused them to ''lower their lending standards.'' 
 But in a departure from Democrats, who have focused on the lending industry's role in the crisis, Mr. McCain suggested that some homeowners had also engaged in dangerous practices, including borrowing too much in hopes that a rising market would cover their mortgages.
 Mr. McCain has often addressed the mortgage crisis in general terms on the campaign trail, but in Tuesday's remarks he offered a more comprehensive look at the challenge facing the nation -- and the roots of the problem. He blamed a profusion of complicated and recently devised financial instruments ''that weren't particularly well understood by even the most sophisticated banks, lenders and hedge funds.''
 Mr. McCain appeared to be trying to confront questions about his dexterity in dealing with the economy, a subject that he has admitted is not his strongest suit. But his remarks drew a quick, pointed rebuke from Mrs. Clinton, who criticized Mr. McCain's hands-off, market-oriented approach, saying it would lead to ''a downward spiral that would cause tremendous economic pain and loss'' for Americans. 
 ''It sounds remarkably like Herbert Hoover, and I don't think that's good economic policy,'' Mrs. Clinton told reporters in Greensburg, Pa. ''The government has a number of tools at its disposal. I think that inaction has contributed to the problems we face today, and I believe further inaction would exacerbate those problems.''
 In addition to urging $30 billion in federal aid to states to help homeowners, Mrs. Clinton on Monday also endorsed federal legislation to expand the government's ability to guarantee restructured mortgages, which she believes would lead more banks and other private entities to buy and resell mortgages.
 Mr. Obama's plan emphasizes making it easier to convert subprime loans to fixed-rate, 30-year loans, while requiring that borrowers have access to better data on loan costs and requiring greater scrutiny of lenders. On Tuesday, he said, ''It's deeply troubling that John McCain is suggesting that the best way to address the housing crisis is to sit back and watch it happen.'' 
 While Mr. McCain left himself some room to support financial assistance for homeowners, saying he is ''prepared to examine proposals'' along those lines, his recommendations shied away from the large-scale relief that leading Democrats favor. 
 ''Some Americans bought homes they couldn't afford, betting that rising prices would make it easier to refinance later at more affordable rates,'' he said. Later he added that ''any assistance must be temporary and must not reward people who were irresponsible at the expense of those who weren't.'' 
 In place of large-scale government assistance, Mr. McCain recommended two immediate but limited measures. He said that accountants should meet to review the system by which real estate and related assets are valued, and he urged mortgage lenders to step forward voluntarily to help credit-worthy borrowers who may be strapped for cash at the moment.
 ''They have been asking the government to help them out,'' he said. ''I'm now calling upon them to help their customers and their nation out.'' 
 Overall, the approach Mr. McCain suggested is even more cautious about federal intervention than that of President Bush. The Bush administration is looking to lower down payment requirements, at least temporarily. Mr. McCain said that he opposed reducing the down payment required for mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration, a step meant to revitalize slumping housing sales.
 The housing crisis has emerged as a dominant topic in the campaign amid a steady drumbeat of worrisome economic data. A survey released Tuesday showed consumer expectations for the future at their lowest levels in more than 30 years, and polls show the economy has increasingly overshadowed issues like the Iraq war.
 Mr. McCain spoke at some length about the problems caused by lenders and by Wall Street, which bundled mortgages into securities that were chopped into pieces and resold to investors in the United States and abroad. But he did not call for any kind of legislative or regulatory measures to fix those problems, other than to say that the government should eliminate obstacles to the ability of financial institutions to raise more capital.
 Mr. McCain said he favored government intervention only when standing by would produce ''catastrophic effects'' to the economy. Asked if the Federal Reserve had gone too far last week in moving to prevent the collapse of Bear Stearns, he replied that it was ''a close call, but I don't think so,'' because of the impact that the investment bank's disappearance would have had on Wall Street and throughout the economy.
 His approach drew a rebuke from economic policy experts aligned with Democrats. 
 ''He's not only far behind what either Clinton or Obama have proposed, he's six months behind what the administration has already been doing,'' said Andrew Jakabovics, associate director for the Economic Mobility Program at the Center for American Progress, a Democrat-leaning research group in Washington. Mr. Jakabovics was an early champion of programs like those now being discussed by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, to have the government either buy up or refinance millions of troubled loans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain of Arizona at a meeting on Tuesday with Hispanic businessmen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A18) CHART: Candidates' Proposals on Housing: John McCain
Hillary Rodham Clinton
 Barack Obama 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



648 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: 'It's Time to Level the Playing Field'

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
This 30-second television advertisement for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, began running in Pennsylvania on Tuesday. It is titled ''Level.''
 PRODUCER The Clinton media team 
 THE SCRIPT Announcer: ''She's fighting for America's middle class.'' Mrs. Clinton, in a speech: ''It's time to level the playing field against the special interests.'' Announcer: ''She'll end $55 billion in giveaways to corporate special interests and invest it in middle-class tax cuts and creating new jobs. She'll get tough on unfair trade deals and end tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas.'' Mrs. Clinton, in a speech: ''Standing up for people who weren't getting a fair shake, that's been the purpose of my life. And it will be the purpose of my presidency.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN The advertisement features Mrs. Clinton speaking on the stump, cooing at a baby and slapping backs. Visual cues suggest working-class crowds: she is shown visiting workers near machinery, hugging an employee at a pizza restaurant and standing in front of people wearing International Union of Painters and Allied Trades T-shirts at a rally. Most of the people in the commercial are white. 
 ACCURACY Mrs. Clinton's pledge to generate $55 billion in additional revenue is based on her campaign's projections of the effects of at least a half-dozen policy proposals, including eliminating subsidies for oil companies, reducing payments to health maintenance organizations and cutting no-bid contracts. Her promise to create 5 million new jobs, part of her renewable energy policy, which she does not mention in the advertisement, is ''realistic'' but a ''push,'' said Dan Kammen, a professor in the Energy and Resources Group at the University of California, Berkeley. Though Mrs. Clinton spoke positively about the North American Free Trade Agreement in the past and voted for a recent trade agreement with Peru, she voted against the Central American Free Trade Agreement and has said she would renegotiate certain environmental and labor provisions of Nafta.
 SCORECARD This commercial is identical to one that ran in Ohio before its March 4 primary, which Mrs. Clinton won, and the campaign is hoping to use the same successful strategy in the bordering state, which has pockets of economic problems similar to Ohio's. Mrs. Clinton is hoping to win the Pennsylvania primary on April 22 by a sizable margin to narrow the gap in delegates between her and Senator Barack Obama, who is ahead. The populist spot is aimed squarely at middle-class and blue-collar white voters who have been Mrs. Clinton's base throughout out the campaign -- and who will need to come out in droves to counter Mr. Obama's popularity in the cities and wealthy suburbs.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An ''Ad Campaign'' analysis on Wednesday about a new television advertisement for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton misstated her action on a recent trade agreement with Peru. Although she publicly supported the deal, she did not vote for the pact because she was not present when the vote was taken.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); TAX LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



649 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Outlook Remains Bleak for 2 Programs

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration issued a grim report on Tuesday on the financial outlook for Medicare and Social Security, but said the condition of the programs had not significantly deteriorated since last spring.
 The new report, like the one issued last April, said Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund would be exhausted in 2019, while Social Security's reserves would be depleted in 2041. 
 ''Medicare poses a far greater financial challenge,'' said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., the managing trustee of Medicare and Social Security. 
 The report may put pressure on the presidential candidates to say what they would do to rein in health costs and to shore up the programs, which serve more than 50 million people. The candidates have largely avoided these questions, but the next president will not be able to escape them.
 The trustees said Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund would pay out more in benefits than it receives in taxes and other dedicated revenues this year. Social Security costs will exceed tax revenues starting in 2017, they said. The government will then have to draw on assets of the Social Security trust fund -- special government bonds -- to meet its obligations to retirees.
 The first of the 76 million baby boomers began receiving Social Security retirement benefits this year. The number of beneficiaries will grow much faster than the number of workers paying taxes, creating financial difficulties for the program. Social Security would still receive tax revenues and could pay 78 percent of promised benefits if the trust fund ran out of money in 2041 as predicted, the trustees said.
 The Democratic presidential candidates have set forth proposals to provide health insurance for all Americans, but have said less about how they would finance the costs of Medicare, for people who are 65 and older or disabled. Efforts to squeeze even modest savings from that program typically provoke a frenzy of lobbying on Capitol Hill.
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, one of two contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination, said the trustees' report ''should give Americans confidence that we can keep Social Security strong for future generations if we come together and address its real but manageable long-term cash flow issue.''
 ''As president,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I will reduce costs in the Medicare program by enacting reforms to lower the price of prescription drugs, ending the subsidies for private insurers in the Medicare Advantage program and focusing resources on prevention and effective chronic disease management.''
 Aides to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the other Democratic candidate, had no immediate comment on the report.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has described Medicare as a ''fiscal train wreck.'' Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain, said the trustees' report reinforced the need to get health costs under control.
 Medicare has a separate trust fund to pay for doctors' services and other outpatient care. The trustees foresee a steep increase in those costs, but said the trust fund would not run out of money because, under federal law, it had access to general revenue. In addition, beneficiaries' premiums can be adjusted each year to cover about 25 percent of the expected costs of this part of Medicare, known as Part B.
 The standard premium for Part B has increased 64 percent in the last five years and is now $96.40 a month. Under the formula set by existing law, the premium will stay at that level in 2009 and 2010, the trustees said.
 But the report, prepared by government actuaries and economists, said these projections were unrealistic because they assumed that Medicare payments to doctors would be cut by more than 10 percent in July and by an additional 5 percent in January 2009 and in each of the next seven years, for a cumulative reduction of about 40 percent.
 In fact, Congress usually intervenes to block such cuts and, in recent years, has approved small increases for doctors, thus increasing the costs of Part B and beneficiaries' premiums.
 In February, President Bush proposed Medicare savings of over $180 billion in five years. Congress rejected the proposal.
 Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, said the report reflected policy decisions made by Mr. Bush early in his administration. He inherited a budget surplus, but, rather than using it to shore up Social Security and Medicare, Ms. Pelosi said, he squandered much of it on ''tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.'' 
 Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said the report showed the looming crisis in entitlement programs ''is not a phony issue, as some Democrats have stated, but a very real problem that is on our doorstep.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: PROBLEMS AHEAD: Number of years of solvency remaining in the Medicare and Social Security trust funds. (Sources: Treasury Department
 Health and Human Services Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); MEDICARE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); BONDS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); CHRONIC DISEASES (60%); DRUG PRICES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



650 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

 BODY:
BANKS BALK AT DEAL Clear Channel Communications and its two private buyers may go to court to force several banks to complete the $19.5 billion sale. [C1.]
 FACEBOOK FOR ATHLETES A Hollywood talent agency and a hedge fund are planning to start WePlay.com, a social networking site for youth sports. 
 A TAX CONCEPT RETURNS Supply-side economics, introduced when Ronald Reagan ran for president in 1980, is making a comeback in this year's election campaign, with a new focus. [C1.]
 MADE IN CHINA One of the most important steps in China's effort to become an auto exporter was supplying the engine inside the 2005 Chevy Equinox. [C1.]
 HOUSING CRUNCH Because homeowners tend to overvalue their homes, real estate slumps can last for years, until sellers submit to reality. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [C1.]
 A housing counselor credited with lowering the foreclosure rate in a Baltimore neighborhood is a model that officials say can be copied in other areas. [A1.]
 Senator John McCain warned against vigorous government action to solve the mortgage crisis and market turmoil. [A1.]
 BUILDING NUCLEAR PLANTS NPR Energy and Toshiba have reached a deal to invest in a joint partnership to develop and finance nuclear reactors. [C2.]
 GERM KILLERS Federal regulators approved a request to market a group of copper products as capable of killing bacteria. [C2.]
 FAKE PHARMACEUTICALS California regulators said they would delay a plan to track prescription drugs, an ambitious effort to combat counterfeiters. [C4.]
 DEVELOPMENT TOOL A service program at I.B.M. develops leaders by deploying teams of volunteers to areas outside their technical and cultural expertise. [C4.]
 A STAR IS BORN Chrysler signed a deal to have a Dodge Caravan integrated into scenes in a movie, part of a trend known as branded entertainment. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]
 PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE The president of CBS News, Sean McManus, below, said he was getting ''positive signs'' that his news organization was close to landing a prime-time debate between Senator Barack Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. [E1.] 
 GLOOMY OUTLOOK A survey of American households found that consumers feel worse about the economy now than they have since the days of the 1973 oil embargo. [C5.]
 PREFABRICATED CAMPUS A growing number of colleges are using modular structures to create quick and convenient dorms and classrooms. [C6.]
 AN OPEN ALLIANCE Yahoo will join a coalition led by Google that is working to help developers create programs for social networks and other Web sites. [C7.]
 REGULATING TRAFFIC As part of its effort to reduce intrusions on runways, the Federal Aviation Administration will add stoplights at 20 airports. [C7.]
 A federal appeals court has rejected an attempt by New York State to enact an Airline Passenger Bill of Rights, which may discourage other states from passing their own laws. [B2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FORECLOSURE (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TALENT AGENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); TRENDS (67%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (66%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (66%); COUNTERFEITING (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); BACTERIA (65%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (64%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (62%); AIRPORTS (62%); AIRLINES (62%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); CIVIL AVIATION (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (55%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); TOS (LSE) (55%); 6502 (TSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



651 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: A Political Comeback For Supply-Side Doctrine

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
When Ronald Reagan ran for president in 1980, he promised to cut taxes in what seemed, at the time, a magical way. Tax revenue would go up, not down, he said, as the economy boomed in response to lower rates.
 Since then, supply-side economics, as it was called -- first with derision but then as a label embraced by its supporters -- has become a central tenet of Republican political and economic thinking. That's despite the fact that the big supply-side tax cuts of the 1980s and the 2000s did not work out as advertised, as even most supporters acknowledge.
 But advocates see broader economic benefits from lowering tax rates, which is one of the reasons the concept has reappeared as a point of contention in this year's election campaign, in an amended form.
 ''What really happens is that the economy grows more vigorously when you lower tax rates,'' said Kevin Hassett, an adviser to the presumptive Republican nominee, John McCain, and the director for economic policy studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. ''It is beyond the reach of economic science to explain precisely why that happens, but it does.'' 
 Even with a growing economy, however, the promised boon in tax revenue never materialized. Arthur B. Laffer, the renowned proponent of supply-side economics, still holds that tax revenues ''rise dramatically'' when tax rates are cut.
 In the 1980s, though, during the initial era of supply-side tax cuts, per capita revenue from personal income taxes, adjusted for inflation, rose an average of just 0.7 percent annually throughout the Reagan presidency, according to the White House Office of Management and Budget. 
 That was far below what turned out to be an average annual increase of 6.5 percent in the eight years of the Clinton administration, when tax rates at the high end of the income ladder were raised.
 Since 2001, the annual per capita revenue from income taxes fell 1 percent under President Bush even though tax collections picked up sharply starting in 2005. The budget surplus Mr. Bush inherited turned into a deficit.
 ''If you are cutting taxes without offsetting the cuts through reductions in spending, then all you are doing is increasing the debt and postponing the taxes,'' said Jason Furman, director of the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution, and also a policy adviser to the Democratic presidential candidates.
 Circumstances vary across the decades, of course, and it is difficult to sort out all the various influences on the economy and tax revenues. But when Mr. Reagan and his supply-side advisers first pushed through a range of tax cuts, they applied their logic to the broad mass of taxpaying workers. They argued that the incentive from lower rates on additional increments of income would prompt people to work that extra day or get more education to qualify for a better job.
 Similarly, a spouse might take a new job, encouraged to do so by the promise of more take-home pay. The family's taxable income, and the nation's, would grow, the theory suggested, producing more tax revenue even at the lower rate.
 That was before so much more of the national income flowed to upper-end households, and before the actual tax collections of the last three decades undercut the supply-side argument. Now the supply-siders single out the wealthiest Americans and argue that because they have so many ways to shelter their money from taxes, the incentive to declare more taxable income is much greater when tax rates are lowered than it is for the less well-to-do. 
 ''The supply-side argument these days really applies to upper-income people,'' said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics who served in the Kennedy administration. ''They are portrayed as the golden geese, and you don't want to discourage them from laying their eggs.''
 By contrast, Mr. Solow says, ''the Democrats are convinced they'll lay their eggs anyway, without tax cuts as an incentive.''
 Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, contending for the Democratic presidential nomination, reflect that point of view. They say that they have no intention of undoing the Bush tax cuts on families earning less than $250,000 a year. Married couples with incomes above that level, however, would once again be taxed by either candidate at up to 39.6 percent -- the top rate reached during Bill Clinton's presidency.
 President Bush pushed through legislation in 2003 that cut the top rate to 35 percent, but only until 2011. Senator McCain wants to extend the 35 percent rate indefinitely and his camp increasingly cites as justification the supply-side effect on upper-income families. 
 Having once voted against the Bush cuts, Mr. McCain has reversed position and now has even enlisted Mr. Laffer as a special adviser. ''McCain is on the right track,'' Mr. Laffer said.
 While Mr. Laffer insists that tax revenue will rise when tax rates are cut, other supply-siders are less categorical. Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist who was the first chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers and now supports Senator McCain, estimates that a 10 percent tax cut would in fact reduce tax revenue -- but only by 3 to 5 percent.
 ''It is not that you get more revenue by lowering tax rates, it is that you don't lose as much,'' he said.
 Not since Mr. Reagan ran in 1980 have supply-side tax cuts been so central a campaign issue. George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton each ended up raising taxes, ignoring the supply-side thesis, which the elder Mr. Bush once called ''voodoo economics.'' 
 Now his son argues that his tax cuts strengthened the economy. Growth resumed after Mr. Bush pushed his tax cuts through Congress, but that position, critics say, is harder to maintain now, given that the election campaign is unfolding in the midst of a credit crisis and an incipient recession.
 Still, even in hard times, the incentive from a tax cut is particularly strong among the wealthy, supply-siders say. A drop of four or five percentage points in the top tax rate of these households saves them tens of millions of dollars. Above all, the supply-siders say, less money will be wasted on accountants and lawyers hired to find ways to dodge taxes when the rates were higher. These outlays will be put to more productive use. 
 The supply-siders also argue that at the corporate level, lower tax rates, which Senator McCain favors, prompt companies to hire more workers and to invest in new equipment, generating more output and more taxable income.
 The Democrats, and many economists who describe themselves as nonpartisan, have a different perspective. Tax incentives might indeed increase labor supply and output, they acknowledge, but what good is that if there is insufficient demand for the additional labor and for the goods and services that are produced?
 The Democrats are quick, as a result, to support the $160 billion stimulus package, with its rebate checks that millions of Americans will be encouraged to spend, supporting demand. They also are prepared to raise taxes to introduce more equity into the tax system and as a means of shrinking or eliminating a large budget deficit.
 The excessive borrowing required to finance the deficit, they say, acts as a drag on the economy, pushing interest rates higher than they otherwise would be, adding to the cost of business investment. 
 Gene Sperling, an economic adviser to Bill Clinton during his administration and now to Mrs. Clinton as a candidate, said that supply-siders vastly exaggerate the incentive effect of relatively small changes in tax rates while ignoring the benefits of bringing government revenue more closely in line with spending. 
 ''The supply-siders predicted in the 1990s that raising rates, even for deficit reduction, would lead us to recession,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''What followed instead was the longest recovery in history, and the people whose tax rates went up had exceptional income gains.''
 The tax issue, for all its importance, does not yet have a prominent place in the campaign. That is mainly because Senators Clinton and Obama are still struggling with each other on issues other than taxes, on which they generally agree. A winner has not emerged to cross swords with Senator McCain.
 ''When there is finally a candidate,'' said Austan D. Goolsbee, chief economic adviser to Senator Obama, ''then we'll debate taxes and the flaws in the supply-side argument.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush, at right, meeting with Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist, in 2003. At far right, David Stockman, left, Donald Regan and Mr. Feldstein before testifying on President Reagan's budget in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C1)
Jason Furman, left, of the Hamilton Project, advises Democrats. Arthur B. Laffer helped establish supply-side economics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BUSINESS WIRE) (pg.C8) CHART: TALE OF THE TAX CUTS: Presidents Reagan and George W. Bush cut taxes, enjoyed an economic expansion after an early recession, but left income tax revenues per person essentially where they were when they took office. President Clinton raised taxes and saw both the economy and tax revenues rise strongly. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



652 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Under a Chevy's Hood, Some Innards From China and Japan

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OSHAWA, Ontario 

 BODY:
General Motors car engines were once the stuff of American legend. The Beach Boys sang, ''nothing can touch my 409,'' about a powerful Chevy V-8. Oldsmobile owners in 1981 were so angered that their cars had been fitted with Chevrolet engines instead of Oldsmobile ''Rockets,'' the subject of another hit song, that they successfully sued G.M. over the swap.
 The company has since eliminated brand distinctions between engines, saddling them with names unlikely to inspire songwriters, like Ecotec, Vortec and Northstar. But some owners of the Chevrolet Equinox, a ''compact'' sport utility vehicle built in North America, might be surprised to learn the origin of the engine under their hoods -- it's made in China.
 Last year, China exported more than $12 billion in auto parts, up from less than $2 billion in 2002 -- the majority to North America. The increase in exports has added to the problems plaguing North American suppliers. Most famously, Delphi, which is seeking to emerge from bankruptcy, has closed dozens of plants and moved some production overseas to become more competitive, including to China. 
 Soon China will be exporting whole vehicles to North America. Last year, Chrysler signed a deal with China's largest car company, Chery Automobile, to supply a Dodge subcompact. 
 One of the most important steps on China's long march to becoming an auto exporter was the little-noticed arrival of the humble engine inside the 2005 Chevy Equinox.
 ''This is the first Chinese-made engine going into this market,'' said Eric A. Fedewa, vice president for powertrain forecasts at CSM Worldwide, an automotive analysis firm. ''It was an experiment to see if G.M. could use its facility in China to take costs out of a vehicle.'' 
 G.M. neither promoted nor hid the fact that the Equinox engine (and that of its twin, the Pontiac Torrent) is made in China. The car's sticker notes 55 percent of its content is make in the United States and Canada, 20 percent in Japan, 15 percent in China and the rest from elsewhere. But no sticker tells consumers the engine is built at Shanghai General Motors, a joint venture of G.M. and the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, a Chinese company. 
 Originally intended to power Buick sedans built for the Chinese market, the engine is the only one available in the Equinox base model.
 Starting with the 2008 model, a larger American-made motor became an option in a higher-end version of the S.U.V. The same model of engine as the one made in China is produced at a G.M. engine plant in Tonawanda, N.Y., about a two-hour drive from the Canadian factory that builds the Equinox.
 G.M. does not break out internal costs, so it is not known how the Chinese engines compare in price with those from Tonawanda. Mr. Fedewa said an engine of this sort typically costs $800 to $900 to make. 
 Even in an era of global manufacturing, the Equinox is exceptionally international. Its engineering was largely done here in Oshawa, headquarters of General Motors of Canada. It uses a five-speed automatic transmission made in Japan by Aisin Seiki, though G.M. is a leading manufacturer of automatic transmissions. And the parts are assembled at a factory in Ingersoll, Ontario, a joint venture between G.M. and Suzuki, another Japanese firm. 
 Suzuki was a major driver in the decision to use the Chinese-made engine. Dick Kauling, a senior engineering manager at G.M. Canada who helped develop the Equinox, said his group had worked closely with engineers at Suzuki, as well as G.M. engineers in Germany, China and Warren, Mich. 
 ''The Suzuki guys said, 'We have the global logistics that can make this happen,' '' Mr. Fedewa said. 
 Suzuki proposed loading a container ship in Shanghai with engines, then having it stop in Japan to pick up transmissions on its way to Canada.
 A 25-year G.M. veteran, Mr. Kauling, remembers when car buyers hotly debated the differences between the engines in G.M. brands, not to mention those from other automakers. But he said the old way of organizing production was less than efficient. 
 Early in his career, the company was running short of engines for Chevrolets but had a surplus of Oldsmobile motors. He was assigned to find a way to modify the incompatible Oldsmobile engine -- the two brands had not even been able to agree on common bolt sizes -- to fit into a Chevy body.
 Now, Mr. Kauling said, ''I don't think we're concerned where the parts come from,'' adding, the Chinese-made engine ''has got General Motors all over it.''
 The idea of using the Chinese engine did not sit well with the Canadian Auto Workers, the union that represents workers at the Equinox factory. Because of its complexity, engine assembly uses a higher proportion of skilled, well-paid workers. 
 And Basil E. Hargrove, the union's president, blames what he calls unfair trading practices by Asian manufacturers for much of the North American industry's problems. 
 ''Today it's South Korea and Japan, and tomorrow it's going to be China,'' he said. ''It's only a matter of time before G.M., Ford and Chrysler are going to deal with the crisis they face by going into these countries and shipping into here. Very few consumers ask: where is the engine built or where is the transmission made?''
 Assessing the quality of Chinese manufacturing is difficult, partly because of the design of this particular engine. 
 Gabriel Shenhar, the senior engineer of Consumer Reports auto test division, said that in the Equinox the engine is coarse, noisy, uses more fuel than similar vehicles and produces relatively little horsepower for its size.
 He did not blame the Chinese for those shortcomings. ''This engine's blueprint did not originate in China,'' Mr. Shenhar said. ''The 3.4 liter, 185 horsepower has always been a lackluster engine.'' 
 He called flaws in the design ''a reflection of G.M.'s lack of attention to detail and half-hearted effort on this car.''
 A spokeswoman for Chevrolet, Carolyn Normandin, said, ''Our vehicle comes with a standard six-cylinder engine, while most of our competitors only offer standard four-cylinder engines.'' She added that the company will offer improved fuel economy in the next-generation Equinox. She declined to say when that will be introduced.
 Some observers expect the new model will be out in about two years. Mr. Fedewa, the analyst from CSM, expects they will not be fitted with Chinese engines. 
 ''Sourcing from halfway around the world is very challenging,'' he said, referring to the difficulties of fitting huge transmissions into shipping containers and the possibility of supply-chain disruption. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dick Kauling is a senior engineering manager at G.M. Canada who helped develop the Equinox sport utility vehicle.
 The 3.4 liter engine is made by Shanghai General Motors, a venture of G.M. and Shanghai Automotive Industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN AUSTEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); SONG WRITING (71%)

COMPANY: SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (62%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) CHINA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



653 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2008

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Words Will Tell

BYLINE: ANDREW BIRD


HIGHLIGHT: For this songwriter, melodies come as naturally as breathing, but words are elusive. 

 BODY:
In about a week I will load up my car with amplifiers and guitars and drive to Nashville to begin recording my next record. I don't drive much anymore and I'm glad for that except that I used to write a lot while on the road. Solitude, boredom, and the desperate need to entertain oneself are ideal stimuli for songwriting.
I've spent most of the last year inside a tour bus. I've spoken more words to journalists than I have to my friends and family. All of this has kept me from what I realize now is my job, and that's to daydream. Now I bring my bike on tour and ride every day. Wandering in an unfamiliar town, the rhythm of walking or riding and a few hours to kill is nearly the perfect recipe for a new idea. 
I've got 11 songs mostly written and several dozen distinct melodies. I never worry about the melodies drying up. Since I can remember, I've had melodies in my head. I chew my food to them.

Almost every breath contains some fragments of an escaping melody. If I shape my lips so as to whistle, my breath will take on a musical shape like sonic vapor. Words are much trickier. I would forgo words altogether if I didn't love singing them so much. My choice of words and my voice betray so much and that's what's so terrifying and attractive about it. 
I'm not the most forthcoming person - I only speak when I have something to say. What is becoming more challenging of late is dealing with so many fully formed melodies that are unwilling to change their shape for any word. So writing lyrics becomes like running multiple code-breaking programs in your head until just the right word with just the right number of syllables, tone of vowel and finally some semblance of meaning all snap into place. 
I'm kind of the opposite of the confessional singer-songwriter who fills notebooks full of poetry and intones them over a bed of chords. Meaning or "the truth that's in my heart" usually reveals itself well after the record is released. I'm often surprised that the things I care about actually end up in my songs. Until then I'm mostly concerned with shape, tone and texture. I'm really an instrumentalist who sings words and if you care to pay attention you might enjoy them. So in this post, I will begin reporting on the progress of an as of yet unfinished song, with all my doubts and insecurities laid bare. 
The song in question is called (for now) "Oh No." It began, as do most of my songs, with a sound. It could be a creaking door or a delivery truck or the sound of multiple stereos wafting out of bedroom windows. For the last four years the same dancehall beat has been has been rattling the foundation of my Chicago apartment. When I stay at my farm, sparrows, coyotes, chickens and frogs find their way into my songs as well. 
In the instance of this song I was on a flight from New York back to Chicago and a young mother and her 3-year-old son sat in front of me and it was looking to be the classic scenario of the child screaming bloody murder. However, I was struck by the mournfulness of this kid's wail. He just kept crying "oh no" in a way that only someone who is certain of their demise could. Pure terror. Completely inconsolable. It was more moving than annoying. 
So when I got home I picked up my guitar and tried to capture the slowly descending arc of that kid's cry. It fit nicely over a violin loop that I had been toying with which moves from C-major to A-major. 
I'll spend days at my farm creating loops with my violin where I record a phrase and layer on top of it, often starting with pizzicato followed by multiple string lines. This is a handy compositional tool I also use in performance. I can follow any whim and instantly hear how it works in counterpoint with other ideas. It's perfect for someone who plays by ear and improvises as I do and who is too impatient for notation. This helps keep ideas fluid and ephemeral but with an instant gratification playback option. I've found that I can be completely satisfied for weeks by the simplest four-bar phrase repeating over and over again. It's a fragile thing where your perception of it can change it completely. You can reconstruct all the elements the following day, note for note and go by physical memory but the feel can be elusive.
Back to "Oh No." All this child knows is that he needs to get off this plane and I can empathize. I often find myself in a crowded room and all I know is "I need to get out of here." So begins the song with a child's half-dream of climbing out a window and venturing into the ravines around Lake Bluff, where I grew up.
 let's get out of here
past the atmosphere
squint your eyes and no one dies or goes to jail
past the silver bridge
oh the silver bridge wearing nothing but a one-sie and a veil. 
When I was little the "silver bridge" spanned the ravine and marked the boundary of my known world.
Words get under my skin the same way melodies do. Something catches my attention and I file it subconsciously. It often begins with an archaic or obscure word I have not defined. I just like the sound of it and its elusive meaning gives it a mysterious shine. On the menu of a local cafe is an item called "salsify." Before I reach for the dictionary I let my imagination run wild and decide that salsify is a burrowing bronchial root like a rickety old mine that burrows deep into something. It turns out that's mostly correct which encourages me further. All I know is "salsify mains" sounds good to me.
Then I might think of what I want to say, what have I been fixated on of late? I have been thinking about how as adults we bury our emotions and I almost envied that kid on the plane who had license to express what we all were probably feeling. And how I have felt frozen and numb of late. (The process may seem more deliberate than it actually is - it's only because I'm breaking it down for this article and have hindsight that it appears that I know what I'm doing).
 In the salsify mains of what was thought but unsaid
the calcified charismatists were doing the math
It would take a calculated blow to the head
to light the eyes of all the harmless sociopaths 
What does it take to wake us up, we who feel so little? Aren't we almost like sociopaths, only the kind that don't kill people?
The only thing I don't care for in this lyric is the "calcified charismatist" - it just feels too clever. I'm known to make up words but this is too heavy-handed. So I'm still searching for the right words. For a while it was "unemployed ex-physicists," but that's too typical of something I would write. Lately I'm considering "calcified arhythmitist" or just "arithmatist" - something that conveys a physicist's sketch or formula for what will revive our harmless sociopath. Then the cheerful refrain of "arm in arm we are the harmless sociopaths/in the calcium mines buried deep in our chests." Followed by the chorus which has only taken shape in the last day, which is "Oh no, we're deep in a mine/Oh no, a calcium mine." Sounds a bit bleak as I break it down, but it should be a rousing little number.
 Recordings of Andrew Bird's music can be heard online at his Web site's A/V page and his MySpace page. 
Andrew Bird is a Chicago-based singer, songwriter, violinist, guitarist and whistler. He has released 10 albums, including "Weather Systems" (2003), "The Mysterious Production of Eggs" (2005) and most recently, "Armchair Apocrypha" (2007). In March, he won the Plug Independent Music Award for Male Artist of the Year and is currently at work on his next album. His Web site is andrewbird.net. 

        
Words and Bridges
        
An Uncommon Thread, Part One
        
Catch and Release
        
Without Words
        
Surviving the Hits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SONG WRITING (91%); WRITERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POETRY (77%) Music; writing and writers; Writing and Writers; Measure for Measure

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013



654 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2127 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IRAQI ASSAULT ON BASRA
 Is Stalled by Shiite Militia
 An assault by thousands of Iraqi soldiers and police officers to regain control of Basra stalled as Shiite militiamen fought daylong hit-and-run battles and refused to withdraw. American officials have presented the Iraqi Army's attempts to secure the city as an example of its ability to carry out a major operation against the insurgency on its own, and a failure there would be a serious embarrassment for the Iraqi government and army, as well as for American forces. PAGE A14
 SALMON DYING IN CHILE
 A virus in Chile is killing millions of salmon destined for export to Japan, Europe and the United States. It is threatening the industry, the country's third-largest, leading to layoffs and criticism of practices that some say court disaster. PAGE A12 
 ARRESTS IN TIBETAN PROTESTS
 China said that 660 people implicated in Tibetan protests and riots in western China over the past two weeks had surrendered to the authorities, leaving unclear, among other things, how many of them had surrendered voluntarily. And a government spokesman spoke harshly of the Dalai Lama. PAGE A14
 SOUTH KOREA FAULTS NORTH
 South Korea's new government said it would speak out against human rights abuses in the Communist North and linked expanded economic ties to an abandonment by the North of its nuclear weapons programs. Relief experts have already warned that food shortages in the North will worsen for various reasons, including donor reluctance. PAGE A6
 HUSSEIN TIED TO CONGRESSIONAL TRIP
 The Justice Department alleged that Saddam Hussein's principal foreign intelligence agency and an Iraqi-American living in the United States had organized and paid for a 2002 visit to Iraq by three House Democrats whose trip was harshly criticized by colleagues at the time. The lawmakers, two of whom are still serving in Congress, were not accused of any wrongdoing. PAGE A17
 SURF'S UP. SUN'S NOT.
 Surfing aficionados have known about Ireland's northwest coast for years, and this winter low-pressure systems offshore created a series of enormous waves. But this isn't the surfing scene of the Beach Boys or Jan and Dean. No bikinis, for starters. And not much sun, either. PAGE A10
 Inquiry Into India Violence PAGE A6
 Bush and Putin to Meet PAGE A15
 NATIONAL
 MCCAIN BACKS DIPLOMACY
 And War, but Not the Bush Way
 Senator John McCain, fresh off his European and Middle Eastern tour, told the Los Angeles World Affairs Council of his hopes for ''robust diplomacy,'' distancing himself from Bush administration unilateralism. But he reaffirmed his opposition to a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, keeping himself in the Bush camp on that issue. PAGE A24
 IN UTAH, DRILLING DRAWS PROTEST
 A plan by Utah to allow oil drilling near the Great Salt Lake has riled environmentalists, not surprisingly. But in this case the protesters can cite more than Mother Nature: fans of the nearby ''Spiral Jetty,'' a 1,500-foot curved construction of rock and earth that juts into the lake, inject art into the discussion. PAGE A18
 A POSSIBLY FAMOUS FINDING
 Children playing in Washington State may have found the parachute used by D. B. Cooper in his famed $200,000 plane hijacking back in 1971. Or, they may not have. In either event, no one has yet found the man.PAGE A18
 FASTEST-GROWING CITIES SLOW DOWN
 The nation's fastest-growing metropolitan regions grew less fast last year, allowing some older regions to stem their losses. Some even recorded small rebounds. The Dallas-Fort Worth region registered the biggest gain, followed by Atlanta, Phoenix and Houston, but all grew more slowly than they had the year before. PAGE A21
 Florida's Slavery Apology PAGE A18
 Shuttle Comes Home PAGE A23
 METRO
 GOVERNOR REVIVES TRAFFIC PLAN
 With five days until the Monday budget deadline, a congestion pricing plan for Manhattan traffic has new life, thanks to support from Gov. David A. Paterson. But lawmakers' expectations of a pay increase are fading along with the state's tax revenues. PAGE B1
 A TREE FALLS IN QUEENS
 A towering Ailanthus altissima tree, spared by Isamu Noguchi in 1975 for what became the Noguchi Museum in Queens, was felled. The 60-foot tree, long the centerpiece of the museum's sculpture garden, was dying and had become a threat. PAGE B3
 DEAL STRUCK FOR RAILYARDS
 Officials announced a tentative deal to develop a dozen residential and commercial towers, stores and parkland over the railyards on the Far West Side, the largest undeveloped site remaining in Manhattan. But it may be years before anything is built over the 26-acre railyards. PAGE B1
 Ground Zero Claims PAGE B5
 Computer Recycling PAGE B3
 $12.3 Billion 9/11 Suit PAGE B5 
 BUSINESS
 WITH PROFITS SHAVED, MOTOROLA TO DIVIDE IN TWO
 The telecommunications equipment maker Motorola said it would split into two entities, spinning off its unprofitable mobile phone unit to investors. The chief executive said the main issue was the company's inability to come up with new products to replace the highly successful Razr phone, whose sales have dropped. PAGE C1 
 REGULATING INVESTMENT BANKS
 The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said investment firms must provide more information about their financial condition if they are to borrow money from the Federal Reserve. He did not break new ground in his remarks, which nevertheless reflected the Bush administration's continuing concern that federal regulators should know more about the often-secretive world of Wall Street finance. PAGE C1 
 SETTLEMENT IN ALASKA DRUG SUIT
 Eli Lilly will pay $15 million to the state of Alaska to settle a lawsuit claiming that the company's schizophrenia drug Zyprexa caused patients to develop diabetes. If the settlement sets a precedent, Lilly may need to pay billions of dollars to resolve similar cases with other states. PAGE C1
 FORD SELLS LAND ROVER AND JAGUAR
 Tata Motors, part of India's fast-growing Tata Group, is buying Jaguar and Land Rover from the Ford Motor Company for $2.3 billion. One of India's largest conglomerates, Tata has been on an overseas acquisition spree, buying interests in tea and coffee companies and steel manufacturers. PAGE C3 
 Coming Soon: Tallest Building PAGE C1
 Citigroup Settles on Enron PAGE C3
 ARTS
 WEIMAR BERLIN'S ROCKWELL RINGS NO BELLS ABROAD
 Onstage, on screen and in various exhibitions, Berlin has been celebrating the 150th anniversary of the birth of Heinrich Zille, whose brutal illustrations and photographs gave the city an enduring image of itself. And yet, in a global culture that focuses on big names and rankings, Michael Kimmelman writes, such local heroes tend not to translate across national boundaries. PAGE E1 
 PROFIT VS. PUBLIC GOOD
 Nicolai Ouroussoff writes that Tishman Speyer's vision for the West Side railyards is a damning indictment of large-scale development in New York. Because of its size and location, it will have a great impact on the city's identity. Yet unlike the ground zero and Atlantic Yards fiascos, it lacks even the pretense of architectural ambition. PAGE E1 
 TWO WAGNERIANS PASS IN THE NIGHT
 The tenor Ben Heppner, who missed the first four productions of the Metropolitan Opera's ''Tristan und Isolde'' because of a blood-borne infection, rallied last weekend, sang in Tuesday's performance and, writes Anthony Tommasini, was worth waiting for. Too bad Isolde, the soprano Deborah Voigt, couldn't make it. PAGE E1 
 A TRIBUTE TO ARTISTS
 United Artists Corporation turns 90 next year, and in anticipation a five-week tribute begins Friday night at Film Forum. The openers are fairly ubiquitous: ''Manhattan'' and ''Raging Bull,'' but the series moves on down less well-worn paths, to include D.W. Griffith's 1919 masterpiece, ''Broken Blossoms,'' above. PAGE E1
 SPORTS
 SHORT STATURE, TALL TALENT,
 The Next Generation of Nails
 There's no giant chew of tobacco in his jaw. But the size, the aggressive, dirt-centric play -- and certainly the name on the back of the jersey -- are evidence of the lineage. So it's no particular surprise that the player, Cutter Dykstra, 18, is one of the nation's finest high school baseball prospects and a possible first-round pick in the June draft. PAGE D1
 SOCCER LOOKS SOUTH FOR STARS
 David Beckham got the fanfare last year but delivered little. Now Major League Soccer teams seem more inclined to look to Latin America rather than Europe. Of the 24 new players in the league, 19 are from Latin America, a source of affordable talent with more flare and better skills than most homegrown players offer. PAGE D1
 W. KENTUCKY LONG A LEADER
 Western Kentucky, regarded as an N.C.A.A. Tournament darling, actually has a pretty accomplished resume over the years. Part of its dominance came in the 1960s, because of its willingness to integrate at a time when it was taboo in the South. That's still a source of pride for many. PAGE D1
 Jaguars' Deep Hopes PAGE D4
 The Voice to Return PAGE D1
 OBITUARIES
 DR. MICHAEL LESCH, 68
 A medical educator whose name is attached to a hereditary disorder characterized by self-mutilation that he helped identify as a medical student, he died on March 19 while on a fishing trip in Patagonia. PAGE B67
 STYLES
 THE LOW-KEY APPROACH FOR HIGH-END DESIGNS
 Thomas Maier's finely tuned designs once flew under the radar. But since turning Bottega Veneta into one of Europe's top-selling luxury brands, the muted, logo-free look that is the brand's signature is widely regarded as the standard-bearer for a new kind of luxury: subtle, long-lasting and recession-proof. And he's celebrated as a prophet. PAGE G1
 A LEGAL HIGH
 Runner's high, a feeling of euphoria after intense exercise, has long been legend among those who exercise intensely. Scientists have heretofore reserved judgment because no rigorous test had confirmed it. Now, Gina Kolata writes, researchers report that running does elicits mood-changing endorphins in the brain. PAGE G1
 DON'T SING, DON'T SING A SONG
 Rock Band may well be an insanely popular video game. But it appears that not every family is cut out for it. PAGE G2
 BARING IT FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS
 One can perhaps appreciate the novelty, without endorsing either philosophy: a strip club in Portland, Ore., features vegan food and dancers who are animal-product (and, presumably, much else) free. But not all vegans agree that a ''Girls Gone Wild'' aesthetic is the best way to draw attention to their cause. PAGE G1
 HOUSE AND HOME
 THE HOUSE IS ALL YOURS. CAN I COME BACK AND VISIT IT?
 Buyer's remorse is familiar to pretty much anybody who has bought a house. Less common but potentially more lasting is seller's remorse, a painful condition that has led some people to go so far as to rent their former home, arrange for ''visiting rights'' and even to buy it all over again. PAGE F1
 MAKING (LOTS OF) WAY FOR BABY
 The nesting instinct often manifests itself even among nonavian beings, but in reasonable ways: turning that extra bedroom into a nursery, say, festively painted and be-cribbed. But among those harder hit, like the actress Angela Kinsey, it can lead to gutting the kitchen, repaving the driveway, enlarging windows and branching out to spruce up the yard. PAGE F1
 EDITORIAL
 HOW NOT TO PREVENT FORECLOSURES
 Senator McCain's call for another meeting and more pledges from lenders will ease neither the worst foreclosure crisis since the Depression nor the financial crisis that has erupted in its wake. Worse yet is what it says about the presumptive Republican nominee's view of the economy and the government's responsibility to protect and help its citizens. PAGE A26
 A FOOLISH IMMIGRATION PURGE
 Leave it to the Bush administration to throw thousands of law-abiding American workers and companies off a cliff in perilous economic times. That would be the effect of its decision to press ahead with a bad idea: to force businesses to fire employees whose names don't match the Social Security database. PAGE A26
 SAVING ZIMBABWE
 There is some hope that President Robert Mugabe's destructive rule can be brought to an end in Zimbabwe in Saturday's elections, despite the certainty that the vote will be neither free nor fair. The world needs to send his henchmen a clear warning that they will pay a high price if they continue to block the will of Zimbabwe's people. PAGE A26
 OP-ED
 GAIL COLLINS
 The endless primary. We should have known it would come to this. The Democratic primary has become the McMansion of politics. PAGE A27
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Yes, Hillary Rodham Clinton may still have a chance of winning the Democratic nomination. But it's probably smaller than the chance that a continued slugfest will hand the White House to John McCain. PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SURFING (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); RIOTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); BEACHES (66%); ESPIONAGE (64%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); LAKES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (52%); HUMAN RIGHTS (51%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%); DALAI LAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); TIBET (92%); CHILE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



655 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: A Builder Pushes Cities Ever Higher

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Minoru Mori, Japan's most prolific developer, will finish the world's tallest building in May. Many of his colleagues might consider the 101-story Shanghai World Financial Center the crowning achievement of a long career. But Mr. Mori has lots of plans for a 73-year-old. 
 As president of the Mori Building Company of Tokyo, he has remade the city's skyline with half a dozen high-rises, including a $4 billion megacomplex over 27 acres, Roppongi Hills. 
 Now, he is fielding offers to build skyscrapers like the Shanghai center in Bangkok and Singapore. And he is planning to build or help build 10 more huge complexes like Roppongi Hills in downtown Tokyo, including one that could be Japan's tallest, over the next 10 to 15 years. 
 He is also talking to Chinese and Middle East sovereign wealth funds about raising tens of billions of dollars to finance the projects.
 At a time when urban planners in the West frown on hulking high-rises as forbidding, Mr. Mori presents a new Asian urban sensibility, where architecture reflects soaring economic ambition, leading to mighty projects that dwarf the individual.
 ''Asia is different from the United States and Europe,'' Mr. Mori said in an interview in his Roppongi Hills office. ''We dream of more vertical cities. In fact, the only choice here is to go up and use the sky.''
 Even in a region where some builders churn out skyscrapers in a way that products might come off an assembly line, Mr. Mori's have stood out. His projects have won attention and their share of controversy for their great impact and scale, helping make him one of the few real estate investors in Asia known by name, like the Hong Kong billionaires Stanley Ho and Li Ka-shing.
 By focusing on a few long-term projects, and shunning speculative buying and selling, his company escaped the real estate bubble of the 1980s and its collapse soon thereafter. 
 Mr. Mori's unlikely career began when he set aside an existentialist novel he was working on in 1959 to join his father's fledgling real estate business. 
 Over the next half-century, the family-owned Mori Building grew from a single rice shop into a $12 billion empire of 121 structures, most around the southern Toranomon-Roppongi international business district of Tokyo. 
 ''I shifted from writing literature to making buildings,'' said Mr. Mori, who played a leading role in the company even before formally taking over from his retiring father, Taikichiro, in 1993. ''Both are creative efforts, and attempts to enrich people somehow.'' 
 These days, Mr. Mori, soft-spoken and earnest with wire-rimmed glasses and snow-white hair, exudes the air of a university professor rather than a real estate mogul. But the Mori clan, which has included his two brothers, elbowed its way to the top of an insider-dominated business, competing with industrial groups and politically connected construction companies. 
 Real estate specialists say the Moris succeeded by reading the future better than their rivals, and putting up buildings that fit the needs of a fast-developing Japanese economy. 
 The family business attracted global tenants by constructing some of the city's first modern office buildings; the first 45 had numbers instead of names. In the 1980s, Mr. Mori steered the family toward building high-rise complexes, helping earthquake-prone Tokyo overcome its fear of skyscrapers. 
 Projects can move slowly in Japan, and Roppongi Hills and Mr. Mori's first big high-rise complex, Ark Hills, which opened in 1986, each took 17 years to complete. Much of that time was spent cutting through red tape and persuading hundreds of reluctant residents to move. 
 Even in the 1990s, when land prices were tumbling, he persuaded banks and investors to lend him billions of dollars for his projects. But his heavy borrowing loaded the company with debt around $8 billion, almost six times annual revenue. 
 Mr. Mori's willingness to use debt led to a parting of ways with his younger brother, Akira, who started his own real estate company, Mori Trust. The oldest brother, Kei, died in 1990.
 Within his company, Mr. Mori is known for both long-term vision and a preoccupation with small details. At a recent meeting to plan a 46-story building -- one of his 10 new complexes -- he spent most of an hour discussing what type of landscaping would best attract fireflies and keep away crows. And he is about to begin construction of a skyscraper in Tokyo that, when completed in 2012, will have taken more than 28 years to finish.
 His patience has paid off overseas. The Shanghai tower required 14 years, with long interruptions from the Asian financial crisis of 1997-8 and the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington in September 2001. 
 The building in Tokyo, when completed late in May, will briefly hold the title of the world's tallest before a higher one is finished later in the year in Dubai.
 With Mr. Mori's successes have come detractors. Japanese nationalists accuse him of cozying up to foreigners because he has so many international tenants. Preservationists assail his skyscrapers for destroying Tokyo's traditional low-rise feeling. Academics call him outdated for wanting to erect monolithic high-rises at a time when smaller-scale, pedestrian-friendly developments are in vogue among urban planners.
 ''Mr. Mori has been remarkable in his ability to bring a strong vision to a city that has otherwise lacked an overall vision,'' said Junichiro Okata, a professor of urban planning at the University of Tokyo. ''Whether Mr. Mori has brought the correct vision or not is an entirely different matter.''
 Controversy has also surrounded the best-known development, Roppongi Hills, with its 54-story barrel-like office tower. When it was completed in 2003, the opulent complex -- which includes fashion boutiques, condominiums and a television studio -- was heralded as a symbol of the end of Japan's ''lost decade.'' But it soon turned into a symbol of the excesses of Japanese revival, when its most famous tenant, a Ferrari-driving Internet entrepreneur, Takafumi Horie, was arrested for insider trading.
 Still, Mr. Mori seeks to reach higher. Of his 10 new complexes, he said one might include a skyscraper nearly 1,100 feet high. Some of the complexes are already in the planning stages, while others may be built by different developers with Mori Building's help, he said. 
 The complexes would be centered on a new tree-lined boulevard the city is to build through the Toranomon district by 2011. The road is known informally here as the MacArthur Highway because it was first proposed during the occupation of Japan after World War II that was presided over by Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur. 
 Mr. Mori says his aim is to replace Tokyo's chaotic, low-rise industrial-era neighborhoods with a more modern and convenient urban environment suited to knowledge-based enterprises like finance and software.
 He still shows a flash of the frustrated philosopher, calling his recent buildings ''vertical garden cities,'' a term referring to multiple-use high-rises surrounded by green space that he borrowed from his favorite architect, Le Corbusier. Mr. Mori keeps a collection of 300 paintings and sketches by Le Corbusier, who died in 1965, in a private museum atop Roppongi Hills. 
 He is also fond of adding artistic flourishes to his buildings. The Shanghai tower has a rectangular hole on top so that it resembles a huge bottle opener. His Omotesando Hills shopping center in Tokyo has an artificial brook, while the Moto-Azabu Hills tower broadens at the top to look like an upside-down bottle. 
 Not everyone approves. ''Mr. Mori knows these kind of projects better than anyone,'' said Yuichi Fukukawa, a professor of urban planning at Chiba University. ''It's scary, but if he wants to fill Tokyo with more Roppongi Hills, he can do it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Minoru Mori, Japan's most prolific developer, attributed an erroneous distinction to one of his buildings. The Taipei 101 in Taiwan is currently the world's tallest building, not Mr. Mori's 101-story Shanghai World Financial Center. (His building does have the tallest roof height at 492 meters, but a spire on the building in Taipei makes it taller, at 508 meters.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Minoru Mori with a scale model of every building, park and road in central Tokyo. Top, Mori Tower in the 27-acre multiple-use complex Roppongi Hills. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, TORIN BOYD/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOP, HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C1)
 The Omotesando Hills complex in Tokyo has many shopping levels and an artificial brook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO, VIA REUTERS) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) JAPAN (93%); ASIA (90%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



656 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: For Railyards, The Hard Part Is Still Ahead

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the announcement on Wednesday that officials had struck a tentative deal with Tishman Speyer Properties to develop a dozen residential and commercial towers over the windswept railyards on the Far West Side of Manhattan, Gov. David A. Paterson said that deal would ''send an enormous signal of confidence in New York City's future.''
 But it may be years before anything gets built over the 26-acre railyards, which sit on both sides of 11th Avenue between 30th and 33rd Streets, or the Metropolitan Transportation Authority realizes anything close to the $1 billion that it is supposed to get for selling the development rights.
 The developer faces enormous challenges with this massive project, even for a company as large as Tishman Speyer, which has projects in India, China and Brazil and controls 120 office buildings worldwide, including Rockefeller Center. And it is unlikely, when and if the buildings do go up, that they will look like the glassy towers in the developer's current plans. 
 First there are the upfront costs: more than $2 billion for the platforms, columns and foundations that must be built before the towers can be erected. 
 With lenders unwilling to finance large-scale real estate projects these days, the company will also face difficulties borrowing money to build the project, no matter how eager it is to get started.
 And Tishman Speyer could face fierce competition for corporate tenants for its four huge office towers -- with a combined 10 million square feet of space -- from the proposed $14 billion Moynihan Station project several blocks away, as well as the new skyscrapers downtown at the World Trade Center site. The company's anchor and partner, Morgan Stanley, dropped out of the project after realizing it would not be able to move into a new headquarters by 2013, although the developer has continued talking to the investment bank.
 Officials like the City Council president, Christine C. Quinn, and State Senator Thomas K. Duane are already demanding that the developer include more subsidized apartments for low- and moderate-income families among the 3,000 units Tishman Speyer plans to build. A critic of the transportation authority, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, called the deal ''another disastrous decision'' because of doubt about the financial arrangements. He plans to hold a hearing about it next week. 
 In the end, the project could take well over a decade to complete, and its look could change significantly from the current designs by Helmut Jahn and Peter Walker.
 In Brooklyn, the developer Bruce Ratner has already acknowledged that his $4 billion Atlantic Yards project will take longer than the 10 years originally envisioned.
 ''This will get built over a generation,'' said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said of the railyards project. ''It's a 15-to-20-year build-out, and it'll change according to market conditions. The buildings will look very different when they get built than the images we see today. And it wouldn't surprise me to see the commercial towers get built later, rather than sooner.''
 But, Mr. Yaro added, ''This is an important first step.''
 Indeed, only a few years ago, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pushed unsuccessfully to build a football stadium over the railyards for the Jets. His predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, had sought to build a baseball stadium for the Yankees there.
 On Wednesday, the developer Rob Speyer, the president of Tishman Speyer, vowed that it would be a great project.
 ''This is a city defined by its iconic properties,'' he said in an interview. ''It's our job and our duty to create a project that will hold its own as part of the greatest skyline in the world.''
 But Mr. Speyer also acknowledged the problems.
 ''We face significant short-term economic challenges,'' he said. ''But this country and this city are extremely resilient. Year after year, decade after decade, New York City is the best place in the world to own real estate.''
 It is also a tough place to develop. The developer Stephen Ross of the Related Companies opened the Time Warner Center complex at Columbus Circle in 2004, 19 years after another developer, Mortimer Zuckerman, was first selected to build a different tower on the site.
 The sale of the development rights over the railyards began last year when the city was in the midst of a long-running real estate boom; five of New York's biggest developers submitted bids. Now there is a fear of layoffs on Wall Street and widening gaps in the city and state budgets as tax revenues decline.
 Despite the gloomy economy, the competition for the oversize development site was sharp up until Tuesday evening, when a rival developer -- a joint venture of the Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust -- sweetened its offer in an attempt to overtake Tishman Speyer.
 On Wednesday, the transportation authority's board unanimously approved a tentative deal with Tishman Speyer to lease the development rights at the railyards for 99 years. It valued the deal at slightly more than $1 billion in 2008 dollars.
 Tishman Speyer's plans call for four, or possibly five, major office towers, as well as 3,053 apartments in seven buildings, including 379 units set aside for poor and working-class New Yorkers, and 13 acres of open space and a school. Over the next 14 days, the transportation authority and the developer plan to complete a conditional agreement and then spend an additional four months working out a binding contract.
 Gary Dellaverson, the chief financial officer for the transportation authority, said the developer was required to make certain periodic payments and guarantees, which, he said, would discourage a developer from walking away from the deal and risk losing tens of millions of dollars.
 The plans for the yard on the west side of 11th Avenue must be reviewed by the city, an 18-month process that could significantly change the design by requiring a reduction in office space in favor of additional housing. Ideally, the developer hopes to complete the project by 2017, subject, Mr. Speyer said, ''to all the vagaries.''
 One vagary is financing.
 ''Large deals used to be in vogue,'' said Howard L. Michaels, chief executive of the Carlton Group, a real estate investment bank. ''It's probably the hardest-hit sector of the market. It's very hard to find a lender.''
 That is why Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, is a critic of the deal. He said the authority should not have tried to sell the development rights in a down market on the promise that the developer will build towers and pay rent at some point in the future.
 ''Jerry Speyer is an eminently responsible developer,'' Mr. Ravitch said, ''but I don't yet understand how this helps the M.T.A. meet its capital needs. They sold an illiquid investment for another illiquid investment.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: The project, once done, will transform the Far West Side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITIES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



657 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: A Foolish Immigration Purge

 BODY:
Leave it to the Bush administration to throw thousands of law-abiding American workers and companies off a cliff in perilous economic times.
 That would be the effect of its decision to press ahead with a bad idea: to force businesses to fire employees whose names don't match the Social Security database. The purge is part of a campaign -- along with scattershot workplace raids and the partial border fence -- to make a show of tackling the broken immigration system. 
 The plan rests on the assumption that people with Social Security glitches are illegal immigrants using fake identities. Companies that receive ''no match'' letters warning of database discrepancies are given 90 days to clear them up. After that, they must fire the affected workers or face stiff penalties. 
 A federal judge blocked the plan last year, warning that it would create havoc in the economy and lead to serious due-process violations for victims of clerical errors. The Social Security Administration's inspector general has estimated that about 17.8 million of the agency's 435 million records contain errors that could lead to a ''no match'' letter. Seventy percent of those 17.8 million records belong to native-born Americans.
 The Department of Homeland Security responded to the judge's objections by resubmitting its proposal last week essentially unchanged. Americans anxious about keeping their jobs should raise a stink and hope that the court rebuffs the agency again.
 The Social Security Administration was set up to administer benefits, not to enforce immigration laws. There are many illegal immigrants who use fake IDs, but the sheer abundance of errors -- the result of name changes, misspellings and other mix-ups -- preclude their use for an immigration crackdown. Native-born workers will pay the price for these mistakes, but the foreign born also will suffer, because they are especially at risk of errors from inconsistent spellings, mistranslations and other language issues.
 The plaintiffs in the lawsuit have warned, with good reason, that a Social Security crackdown would lead to countless unjust firings and discrimination against lawful immigrants by companies that cannot be bothered to help clear up their bureaucratic entanglements. 
 The burden on law-abiding companies would be great: thousands of dollars to comply with the rules, and thousands more to fire and replace workers. An honest employer who does things by the book would face an excruciating choice -- to keep good workers despite dubious ''no-match'' letters and face harsh fines, or to fire them and face discrimination lawsuits.
 All this churning, meanwhile, will be a boon for the unscrupulous businesses that hire off the books and have no use for W-2s. It's a law-and-order strategy that undermines law and order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); DUE PROCESS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (76%); JUDGES (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



658 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER JEAN SHOP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Jeans for the Lean Years

BYLINE: By MIKE ALBO

 BODY:
DURING America's most recent Gilded Age, which I guess ended last week, I wrote fashion copy for a men's magazine. While coming up with witty headlines (''Beanies, Baby!'') and justifying the existence of an $1,800 melon-pink cashmere sweater emblazoned with a skull (''adds a touch of rebellion under a blazer!''), I witnessed firsthand the emergence of the premium jean. 
 Each day it seemed as if a new denim line was introduced. I would receive long news releases from this or that label, explaining the arcane techniques of baking, resin-coating, whiskering and sanding used to create an epochal pair of worn-in jeans. 
 Often they referred to the Japanese aesthetic virtue of wabi-sabi, the beauty that comes with age, as if each pair were a priceless ceremonial ceramic bowl created by the ancient Tea Master Sen no Rikyu himself. Brand-new threadbare jeans were given an instant history and then sold for three figures. My four pairs of premium jeans, so hip in 2005, now have broken zippers and disintegrated crotches, much like our economy. 
 Jean Shop opened in April 2003, at the height of precious, overdetermined denim. I walked into the store last week expecting it to be a relic of this recently bygone era, but the atmosphere seemed honest and the clothes built to last.
 The narrow space is covered with clothes from floor to ceiling like an old Italian men's store on Orchard Street, except that instead of lime green Sopranos suits, it's dripping with denim. Pants hang in drooping stacks like parchment. In the changing rooms, a ragged patchwork of jean material serves as curtains. 
 There are baskets of tangled accessories here and there; one was brimming with multicolored bandannas, another with $68 webbed canvas belts. In the center are glass cases with bracelets and wallets, and a table displaying a pair of expertly disheveled dungarees. 
 While ''Hot Rocks'' played on repeat, the sales clerks -- a beautiful, thin woman in a knit cap and a mellow, gravel-voiced man -- greeted me like friendly bartenders, keeping busy until I was ready for help.
 I was drawn to a black leather jacket with a buttoned mandarin collar hanging on the wall. A tag inside the collar said $58, and I thought: ''Wee! The Gilded Age really is over!'' Actually, that was the price of the T-shirt hanging inside the jacket, which was actually $2,300. Dreams die fast.
 Racks in back displayed more jackets, including one in ''cinnamon suede'' for $900. I have three similar jackets that I bought at various suburban Salvation Army stores in my scroungy 20s, when I hadn't yet developed expensive tastes and dressed like a member of the Lemonheads. This one didn't have a wacky 1970s collar, and it had a nice weight and thickness. I never wear those suede jackets anymore. I want this one. Fie, my overpriced proclivities!
 I found a row of dark jean jackets, each for $280. I tried on an extra small that was snug in the body and had nicely tailored, narrow sleeves. I've been looking for this jacket everywhere. It's near impossible to find one that fits right and isn't tricked-out with bleach spatters, gaudy logos and goofy embroidery.
 It was time for the jeans. The female clerk explained the three styles, which, unlike those at other stores, were simple and made sense. The Classic has the lowest rise and fits snugly in the thighs; the Relaxed Fit has a higher waist and is slightly fuller in the thigh and seat; and the Rocker is a fusion of two, with a higher waist and the body of the Classic. She went to retrieve some options. 
 Every pair of jeans is $240, except for kids' selections ($200). They can be worked over however you prefer at extra cost. Pants in varying degrees of wear and tear hang on the wall to help you express the distress you desire. For $60 more, you can also buy white jeans and have them dyed. Examples of various colored garments hang on the back wall, including a pair of scarily preppy salmon-colored jeans. 
 Eric Goldstein, an owner, does almost all of the washing, dyeing and finishing himself in the back of the store. He explained that the highest-priced customized jean, at $600, would have the customer's name on the waistband and be worn-in to look 10 years older, with patched-over holes on the knees and hand-sewn back pockets. In other words, a pair of jeans that look as if they've been worn by Pete Doherty through his last 17 court dates. 
 Mr. Goldstein has worked in denim for close to two decades, first helping to start the Ralph Lauren RRL line, and then for the Gap. Having worked in the industry during its premium heyday, he has probably seen his fair share of overwhiskered frittery and knows how to create classic-fitting, worn-in clothes without overdoing it. 
 Despite his vast knowledge of fabrics and finishes, Mr. Goldstein says that raw, untreated denim is the way to go these days. He encourages customers stuck in the Age of Excess to simply wear their jeans, let things happen naturally and stop trying to faux-paint their wardrobe. 
 FOR half an hour, I stepped into Rockers and Classics in six different sizes, assessing them as if they were running shoes. When I walked out to stare at myself in the mirror, the guy with the gravelly voice tugged at my waist and urged me to go a size smaller. I was cautious because I've made this mistake before and ended up buying too-tight jeans that I never wear because they give me a muffin top and self-esteem issues. 
 The salesclerks listened to my concerns with full attention. They both assured me that after a week, the fabric would give. Then they gave me a shot of Herradura tequila. Their names are Peter Brandewein and Sierra Hines-Owens, and they are my new favorite people.
 I bought a size 28 Medium Rocker Fit for a fresh $240. It seems the Gilded Age has permanently stamped us with a higher price point, no matter how classic the product.
 It's the next day, and I am writing this while they dig into my waist, as I wait for them to mold to my frame. I may have spent a wad of money and permanently disfigured my lower intestinal region, but eventually these jeans are going to fit really well and last me through the recession, even if it lasts for the next 25 years. 
 Jean Shop
 435 West 14th Street (between Ninth and Tenth Avenues); (212) 366-5326.
 TOUGH SKINS A meatpacking district joint for well-made leather jackets and pricey denim in comprehensible sizes and styles. Every pair comes raw and stiff, but can be dyed and distressed to your specifications. 
 TOUGH LOVE The clerks wear smiles and unassuming grunge-wear. They patiently let you try on jeans until you find the right style, and will persuade you to buy the painful pair that, they promise, will loosen into a perfect fit.
 TOUGH TIMES If you are a Bear Stearns executive blowing your last bloated bonus, you can come here for something durable. The denim is not cheap, but it's worth more than those shady derivatives you loved so much.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMEL TOPPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (70%); TEA (68%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



659 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Nesting With a Vengeance (and a Deadline)

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
ANGELA KINSEY, who plays Angela Martin on the television comedy ''The Office,'' is seven months pregnant and ''trying to prioritize'' all the improvements she is making on her 1950s single-story home in Los Angeles. She came up with a to-do list during the writer's strike, when she was ''basically unemployed.'' But the real reason for the list, she said, is that ''being pregnant makes you crazy to get things done around the house.'' 
 By this she meant more than the common symptoms of a mother-to-be's nesting instinct, like emptying out a closet or turning a guest room into a nursery. With hammers pounding and drills whining in the background, Ms. Kinsey, speaking by phone, said she is having her kitchen ''completely gutted'' to make way for new cabinetry, flooring, appliances and countertops. 
 Next, she wants to repave the driveway, finish landscaping the yard and enlarge some windows to let in more light. ''I got up at 4:30 in the morning the other day and looked at the windows and thought they were too small,'' said Ms. Kinsey, 36, whose baby is due in May. ''Is that nuts or what?'' 
 Obstetricians have long observed a deeply felt urge among pregnant women to focus on preparing the home for offspring. As with many behaviors associated with pregnancy, this one seems caused at least in part by hormones -- specifically, oxytocin, which is thought to be responsible for maternal attachment. (Without it, mammals do not bond with their young, or prepare nests for them.) 
 ''Women are just dripping with this hormone in the last part of pregnancy,'' said Dr. Louann Brizendine, a neuropsychiatrist and director of the Women's Mood and Hormone Clinic at the University of California at San Francisco.
 Typically, projects resulting from the nesting instinct have been small-scale affairs -- a cleaning jag, a den converted to a nursery with a little paint and drywall, a changing station built into a laundry room. But lately, even as the housing and renovation markets have slumped, some pregnant nesters have been getting more ambitious, spurred on by the widespread home-improvement mania of the last decade and by the plethora of design-themed magazines and television shows.
 ''It's not just the nursery -- sometimes it's whole-house renovations,'' said Dr. Pamela D. Berens, an obstetrician-gynecologist at the University of Texas Medical School in Houston. Over the past five years, Dr. Berens said, her pregnant patients -- particularly those in their last trimester -- have been taking on larger and grander renovations. ''A lot of patients near their due date tell me they are redoing the kitchen, that kind of thing,'' she said.
 Last October, when Amy McKnight, a 31-year-old graphic designer, was eight months pregnant, she could barely hoist herself up from a seated position, but that did not stop her from revamping her TriBeCa apartment. In the weeks before she gave birth, she got rid of almost all her furniture, and delivery trucks arrived daily with new tables, chairs, lamps, rugs and flat-screen televisions. She also put new shelving in every closet and the kitchen pantry, where she stacked and restacked the canned goods with precision. 
 ''It's hard to describe how driven I was to do these things,'' Ms. McKnight recalled. Looking at shelter magazines like Domino and House Beautiful made it worse. ''They give you high expectations about how you want things to look,'' she said. But now that she is focused on caring for her newborn, she continued, ''it's funny how I've let it go.''
 Rona Spiegel, an interior designer in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., said she often gets calls from pregnant women wanting to hastily redo some aspect of their homes before giving birth. ''I think it's partly raging hormones, but it's also a way to take control when they feel very out of control,'' she said. ''Their bodies are changing so much, and their whole life is about to change radically.'' 
 Given that many women are choosing to have children after establishing their careers, she added, she is not surprised that her pregnant clients often tend to nest ''in a big way.'' She said she tries to encourage them to focus on projects that will help them perform daily tasks like preparing a meal or running a bath with a baby on one hip. ''I get them to consider things like levers for doors and fixtures instead of turn knobs and faucets,'' she said.
 Because large-scale home improvement projects often don't go as planned, they can add to the stress of pregnancy. Melissa DeMordaunt, 27, who is a co-owner of an infant apparel company in Salt Lake City, said she had ''a total meltdown'' last year when a contractor painted the ceiling of her then-unborn son's nursery the same pale green she had intended for the walls. ''It looked like I had landed on Mars with all that green,'' she said. ''I told him he was going to put me in labor.'' 
 The painter was quick to fix his error. ''People react when you're pregnant, especially men,'' Ms. DeMordaunt said. ''They get very uncomfortable when you get upset.''
 Contractors with experience working for pregnant women confirmed that things can get strained as the baby's due date approaches. ''You cut them some slack when you've been through it with your own wife,'' said Randy Fry, the general manager of the Fairfax, Va., location of California Closets, which specializes in custom storage spaces. ''I've had everything from screaming hysterics to quietly weeping over something as simple as a tie rack in the wrong place.'' 
 Since he began working for the company in 1986, the percentage of expectant mothers among his clients has grown steadily. ''Maybe more people are having babies,'' he said, ''but pregnant women now represent at least 15 percent of our business, which is a significant chunk.'' And whereas 20 years ago the projects were generally confined to the nursery, he added, now ''they want to redo and reorganize the pantry, the mudroom, entertainment center, home office -- everything.''
 Just two weeks before Alene Opatut, a 30-year-old veterinarian in Seabright, N.J., had her baby this past November, she had all the rooms of her condominium repainted, got her closets professionally redesigned, retiled all three bathrooms and installed wood floors on the second story. ''I had this overwhelming urge to get everything perfect,'' she said, including folding all the towels a particular way and placing them in the linen closet facing the same direction. 
 Before her pregnancy, she said, she was not so obsessive: ''It's weird because I turned into a type A.'' 
 Her husband, Peter, a supervisor at a janitorial services company, said in an incredulous tone, ''The cat and dog now have their own drawer in the bathroom.'' 
 In retrospect, Ms. Opatut acknowledged, ''I went a little crazy.''
 Even those who do not go to such extremes often look back at their nesting periods with wonder. Amy Moseley, a physical therapy assistant in Baytown, Tex., said she became hyper-fastidious about cleaning and organizing before the births of each of her three children, now 6, 7 and 11, because ''I knew for so long I wouldn't be able to get to that kind of stuff.'' 
 After her doctor limited her activity in the final months of her third pregnancy, she sat on the floor with her vacuum cleaner's longest extension hose. ''I would run it all around me and then move myself to another place and run it all around me,'' she said.
 Andrew Porth of Porth Architects in Red Lodge, Mont., who has worked with several nesting pregnant women, said that, like Ms. Spiegel, he does his best to limit the scope of the projects and manage expectations. 
 ''I usually have to tell them that the gestation period of what they want to do is longer than the human gestation period,'' he said. ''But that usually doesn't stop them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A FRESH START: Before giving birth, Alene Opatut (above with her husband, Peter) had her home painted, her bathrooms retiled and her floors redone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F7)
BABY MAKES 3: When Amy McKnight, above, was pregnant, trucks arrived daily with new furniture
 Demond Hill, above left, delivered a bed. Alene Opatut (below, with her husband, Peter) had her closets redesigned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH J. DELCONZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); WRITERS (77%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (69%); MAMMALS (65%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (64%); NEUROSCIENCE (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



660 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: You'll Know How Much You Spent

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
TOMAS MAIER cultivates tenacity. If a tree in his garden doesn't thrive, he simply uproots it and replants. If a supermarket tomato is not tangy enough for his taste, he is apt to grow his own. ''People like myself cannot get happy,'' Mr. Maier mused last week as he sat in the courtyard below one of his namesake stores in Palm Beach, Fla. ''I'm always looking for something that is not there.'' 
 During a fashion career spanning more than two decades, Mr. Maier channeled this pursuit of an elusive perfection into designs so low-key and finely tuned that they often flew beneath the radar. Then a half-dozen years ago, he trained his sights on Bottega Veneta, transforming that once-ailing fashion house into one of Europe's top-selling luxury brands, with annual sales of more than $500 million worldwide. 
 Today the muted logo-free look that is the brand's signature is widely regarded as the standard-bearer for a new kind of luxury: subtle, long-lasting and recession-proof. In such a climate, Mr. Maier himself has emerged as a hero, albeit a reluctant one -- and, to his admirers, even something of a prophet. 
 ''He's not one of those in-one-season-out-another people,'' said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys New York, which carries Bottega Veneta dresses and accessories. ''The fashion business has so much of that -- so much marketing, so much hype -- that there needs to be a spot where that doesn't exist. He's definitely the person who has created that spot.'' 
 If he did, it was by cutting against the grain. While competitors were churning out look-alike handbags made of coated canvas, bearing hefty hardware and equally hefty price tags, Mr. Maier perfected his specialty: the Intrecciato series of hand-woven bags, some that take two days of labor to make (compared with about 80 minutes for a standard-issue designer bag). Signature products, devoid of initials, they typically sell for $1,200 to as much as $4,500. 
 While other designers were producing dart-free baby-doll dresses as if they were so many Fords, he concentrated on deceptively simple, painstakingly constructed styles priced from about $1,200 to $6,000 for an evening dress. The dressmaker touches -- ruching, serpentine seaming, hand-beading and elaborate pleats -- are recognizable to a small but informed clientele. 
 His maverick approach has reaped rewards. Bottega Veneta has become the second-highest earner at the Gucci Group, under its owner, PPR, which took control of the brand in 1999. Its clothing and accessories are distributed at upscale stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus, as well as at more than 100 Bottega Veneta shops from Moscow to Mumbai. 
 The Cabat, a sort of woven leather shopping bag that is one of Mr. Maier's earliest designs, remains in the line, evolving almost imperceptibly from season to season. Even with a stratospheric price tag of as much as $6,000, it continues to attract a following.
 To be sure, that following was slow to build. Critics often overlooked Bottega Veneta, and shoppers turned to showier pieces. But Mr. Maier, 51, persisted, imposing his iconoclastic vision on the house. 
 From the outset, Mr. Maier drew a cult by catering to the type of woman who may buy only one new bag a year -- if that. ''She will ask herself, 'Do I really need all this stuff that's disposable?' '' he said, adding ringingly, ''The answer is no.'' 
 That statement is heresy, he knows. ''When I started to talk like this, people thought I was nuts.'' 
 But fashion has caught up with Mr. Maier, whose subtle aesthetic and considered approach to design speak to a powerful niche. 
 Faced with a recession, affluent consumers ''don't want to be screaming luxury right now,'' said Milton Pedraza, the chief executive of the Luxury Institute, a research group in New York. ''They don't want something flashy that everybody else has. They are looking for unique handcrafted things that can't immediately be reinterpreted at every level of the marketplace.''
 A 2007 consumer survey by the Luxury Institute lent substance to that observation. Respondents, Mr. Pedraza said, placed Bottega Veneta in the first tier of luxury brands, ranking with Hermes and Vera Wang among the top three in consumer recognition and approval. 
 Those consumers are shopping for ''sustainable luxury,'' said Ed Burstell, a senior vice president at Bergdorf Goodman. Instead of buying a $1,500 handbag that may be indistinguishable from versions selling for one tenth of the price, they may part with several thousand dollars for a piece that looks durable and worth the splurge. Yes, those shoppers represent a minute portion of the population, but their devotion has helped build the brand. The leather goods account for 82.3 percent of the company's sales.
 Those values are in keeping with the original aims of the house. In the mid-1960s, Bottega Veneta was among a handful of small leather-goods makers setting the standard for Italian craftsmanship. In the 1970s, its intricately woven rustic-looking designs were sufficiently identifiable to inspire the company's slogan, ''When your own initials are enough.'' 
 But by 2001, when the Gucci Group bought the brand for roughly $200 million, its standards had eroded. The company was bankrupt, said Domenico De Sole, Gucci's former chief, its 21 stores selling flashy but otherwise unmemorable leather goods. That year Tom Ford, then the creative director of the Gucci Group, hired Mr. Maier, who had designed for Hermes and Sonia Rykiel, to restore the luster of the brand. 
 ''It was probably one of the worst moments in the economy,'' Patrizio Di Marco, the president of Bottega Veneta, recalled. The post-9/11 recession ''injured an industry that is usually resistant to economic downturns,'' he said.
 Despite the sagging market, Mr. Maier stuck to his ways. With the blessing of Mr. Ford and Mr. De Sole, he ignored a few cherished marketing precepts, refusing, for instance, to follow the widespread practice of turning out a successful bag in three sizes and adjusting the prices accordingly. ''If the bag is right, one version is enough,'' Mr. Maier insists to this day. 
 At other companies, where the creative director holds less sway, he might have been out in a season, Mr. De Sole said. 
 Conscientious almost to a fault, Mr. Maier will not make pieces that are strictly for show. ''I never design for design's sake,'' he said. ''You don't put things on the runway and then not sell them at the store. Women hate that.'' 
 Unlike high-end competitors, many of whom manufacture in China, the company under his direction continues to makes bags, clothing and jewelry in Italy. A furniture collection is also manufactured in Europe.
 At times Mr. Maier encountered opposition. Andrew Preston, his companion of 20 years and a partner in the two Tomas Maier stores, acknowledged that the designer had to overcome a certain amount of skepticism. ''He doesn't believe in the quick fix and the gimmick product,'' Mr. Preston said. ''People in fashion found that a bit odd, because this is a disposable business, generally.''
 Looking back on his career, Mr. Maier prides himself on taking the long view. ''I've always been such an outsider,'' said the designer, the son of a successful architect in Germany. Growing up in the small town of Pforzheim, in the Black Forest, he sat at his father's drafting table and accompanied him to building sites, evolving an eye for line and form, and learning patience. 
 A degree of asceticism informs his work and even extends to the clothes he wears, monochromatic ensembles, many of his own design. A reluctant pinup, Mr. Maier cultivates a monkish look, his hair close-cropped, his chin stubbled, his lips compressed. And like a proper friar, he shuns the limelight.
 You will not find him out partying with the Beckhams or recovering from his excesses at some boutique rehab. When he is not in Italy monitoring production, he is minding the Tomas Maier stores, the first in Miami Beach and the latest in Palm Beach, which opened in November. At other times he can be seen taking a spade to his flower beds, often as early as 6 a.m. 
 Sure, he allowed, fashion thrives on a star system, catapulting last season's unknown into the celebrity stratosphere, ''and then, who knows ...'' He trailed off, then brightened. ''I don't think you need to be like that,'' he said. ''In any case, I don't want it.'' 
 Is his demurral self-protective? ''People are very fickle,'' Mr. Maier said. A canny glint in his eye, he added, ''If you're never in fashion, you are never out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A RELUCTANT HERO, MAYBE EVEN A PROPHET: Tomas Maier, above, the creative director for Bottega Veneta at his office in Milan. Below, part of an ad campaign, shot by Sam Taylor-Wood. At left, a dress from the spring collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAGO AKII-BUA AND BRIAN JONES
CLAUDIO GALLONE/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. G5)
 STEALTH WEALTH: Tomas Maier appeals to a tiny but affluent market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAGO AKII-BUA AND BRIAN JONES) (pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); PERSONAL LEATHER GOODS MFG (88%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (75%); BRANDING (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



661 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ROZEL POINT JOURNAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Plans to Mix Oil Drilling and Water-Bound Art Clash in Utah

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: ROZEL POINT, Utah 

 BODY:
Will McMillin and Liz Wing walked more than three miles of rutted, muddy road on a recent afternoon carrying a bicycle wheel, a wooden stool and a golf club. 
 Following directions they had gleaned from art Web sites and small road signs, they arrived here at a remote spot on the shores of the Great Salt Lake.
 ''We felt like we had to go, and that this was the time to do it,'' Mr. McMillin said. 
 Their goal (more later on what they did with their props; think about the Dadaist/Surrealist artist Marcel Duchamp) was ''Spiral Jetty,'' a 1,500-foot curved construction of rock and earth by the artist Robert Smithson that juts into the lake.
 A fierce debate, with equal parts art, environmentalism and economics, has erupted over a plan by the state to allow oil drilling about five miles across the lake. The owner of ''Spiral Jetty,'' the Dia Art Foundation in New York, in an alliance with a conservation group called Friends of Great Salt Lake, says the oil rigs would harm the work's aesthetic experience. 
 Led by their drumbeat of protest, more than 3,000 e-mail messages, mostly against the drilling plan, were received by the state during a public comment period last month. A decision by the state about whether to let the drilling go forward is expected in April.
 The face-off reflects a profound shift in attitudes about the Western landscape since Mr. Smithson, an earthwork artist, came here with an artistic vision and a dump truck in 1970. Then, these desolate, salt-soaked shores were loved or visited by almost nobody.
 Now the soaring price of oil, a new environmental appreciation of the lake's ecological niche and a tourist boom in bird-watching on the vast wetland fringe have coalesced into a fabric that Mr. Smithson, who died in a plane crash in 1973, never knew.
 ''Like everywhere in the West, the lake is being discovered and people want to protect it and people want to use it,'' said John Harja, director of the Governor's Public Lands Policy Coordination Office.
 What Mr. Smithson might have thought about the drilling plan is among the issues in dispute. State officials and some art historians, pointing to Mr. Smithson's own writing about the ''Spiral Jetty,'' and the film he made about its construction, said he reveled in the juxtaposition of industrialism and beauty, decay and rebirth, rot and permanence. 
 ''The sense of ruined and abandoned hopes interested him,'' said Lynne Cooke, the curator at Dia. ''He didn't look for beautiful places, but rather despoiled landscapes where industry and the wild overlap.''
 State officials say that Rozel Point has always offered a fine tableau of the despoiled and the natural. A natural seep of oil sludge is right down the beach from the ''Jetty,'' harvested since pioneer days. And oil drilling was also under way, they say, in view of the ''Jetty'' in 1970, though it proved economically unviable. The new drill rigs, they say, are much farther away than the ones Mr. Smithson knew, and that can be glimpsed briefly in his movie.
 ''One of the things we're having a hard time figuring is what the impacts will be,'' said Dick Buehler, the director of the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands. 
 The deputy director at Dia, Laura Raicovich, agreed that Mr. Smithson had chosen his site carefully and loved some things that others might call ugly. But Ms. Raicovich said he had also been ambivalent about the context of the ''Jetty.'' He wrote about the rotting pier and the shacks that lined the shore, but in his photographs, she said, he kept the focus on the wild backdrop of the lake.
 And the proposed drilling plan is different, Ms. Raicovich added, ''because it's a new addition and it's pretty fair to say that it's not desirable -- on an aesthetic level it alters the physical experience.''
 The executive director of Friends of Great Salt Lake, Lynn de Freitas, said an alliance of artists and environmentalists was also something of a new pattern on the lake. In 2005, when the state first proposed issuing offshore drilling leases, Ms. de Freitas's group protested and raised the issue of ''Spiral Jetty.'' Few artists seemed to take notice then, she said. But when she learned in January that new applications for drilling had been filed, she alerted Mr. Smithson's widow, the artist Nancy Holt, and an expert on the ''Jetty,'' Hikmet Sidney Loe. This time, the global arts community took the ball and ran with it.
 ''In my mind, it was one for all and all for one,'' Ms. de Freitas said.
 Ms. Raicovich said the deeper question raised by the drilling plan was how to protect deliberately remote art. She also worries, she said, that more people drawn to the site by its newfound attention could become a problem, since the jeep road to the ''Jetty'' crosses private land. The owner could close off access at any time, she said.
 Which takes us back to the beach and Mr. McMillin and Ms. Wing, both of whom were drawn here by the controversy; he from Brooklyn, she from San Francisco. Proceeding down to the foot of the ''Jetty,'' they inserted the section of the bike frame into a hole in the top of the stool -- echoing Duchamp's famous sculpture ''Roue de Bicyclette.'' Then they positioned their creation with ''Spiral Jetty's'' rock -- black and white and rimed with salt -- as the backdrop. 
 Mr. McMillin swung his club while Ms. Wing, 29, who is pursuing her master's degree in museum studies at Harvard, snapped the pictures: earth-art, Dadaism and golf.
 ''It was sort of idiotic,'' said Mr. McMillin, 28, an artist who lives in Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. ''And the Duchamp reference was, in retrospect, totally pretentious.''
 But he also called their four-hour ''Jetty'' experience ''mind-blowing'' and said that he and Ms. Wing were both left unsure what to think about the drilling plan. They have read about Mr. Smithson and the impulses that shaped his work. They both gazed out and tried to imagine what might be seen across the water and how it might change things.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Smithson's work of rocks and earth, ''Spiral Jetty,'' juts into the Great Salt Lake in Utah. Plans by the state would allow for oil drilling about five miles across the lake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM SMART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Oil drilling was under way when ''Spiral Jetty'' was installed in 1970. Map of Rozel Point in Utah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LAKES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); BIRDS (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); ART HISTORY (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); BIRDING (67%); WETLANDS (67%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (65%); HISTORY (50%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%) UTAH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



662 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: As the Dollar Slides, Two Continents Feel the Side Effects in Divergent Ways

BYLINE: By DONALD GREENLEES; Martin Foster contributed reporting from Tokyo and Sang-Hun Choe from Seoul, South Korea.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Anthony del Rosario, who works on an oil tanker that travels between the Middle East and South Korea, is sending home less money to his family in the Philippines. Takeshi Okada, a shoe manufacturer in Japan, is concerned about the possibility of declining export sales.
 They have a common worry: The sliding value of the dollar is putting them under increasing financial pressure. 
 The decline in the buying power of the dollar is, according to economic analysts, only a high-profile symptom of the economic slowdown and credit squeeze in the United States. But for many businesses and workers who once regarded themselves as lucky to be paid in dollars or dollar-linked currencies, the weakening dollar is a sure sign of tougher economic times ahead in Asia.
 ''The dollar is a very visible financial variable,'' said Duncan Wooldridge, chief Asian economist at UBS in Hong Kong. ''But the underlying problem is that the U.S. is going to be working through some of the excesses it built up in recent years, and that is just going to mean less demand for Asian exports than we have grown accustomed to.''
 The dollar has fallen nearly 12 percent against the yen and 6 percent against the euro this year. On Wednesday, the dollar traded at 100 yen, a bit stronger than recent 13-year lows. One euro was at $1.5815, slightly below a record high.
 The real problem for many exporters is a likely United States recession, but the ''weak dollar makes those goods more difficult to sell into the U.S. market, so it amplifies the downturn,'' Mr. Wooldridge said.
 For Misuzu, a maker of women's shoes based in Tokyo that employs about 175 people, the strength of the yen against the dollar threatens to eat into export sales in Taiwan and China because the shoemaker's transactions with those countries are conducted in dollars. When those sales are converted back into yen, Misuzu has fewer yen than it would if the dollar were strong.
 ''I am very concerned about what effect the weaker dollar will have on our overseas sales,'' said Mr. Okada, a merchandiser with Misuzu. ''It could take a few months before we know, but everything depends on our customers, and we will have to wait and see.''
 Deepening Misuzu's woes is the rising price of crude oil. High oil prices are forcing up the cost of petrochemical products, which make up about 90 percent of the materials used in Misuzu's line of shoes.
 Despite steps to limit price increases to less than a third of the product line and capping them at about 10 percent, Misuzu is likely to be one of many Asian exporters to face declining sales in the coming months.
 Economists expect weaker consumer demand in both the United States and Europe to reduce Asian export volumes significantly and slow the pace of regional growth. A forecast by Deutsche Bank that growth in 12 Asian economies will slip to 7.7 percent in 2008, from an average of 9.2 percent in 2007, is typical of the view among private sector economists.
 But Michael Spencer, Deutsche Bank's chief economist for Asia in Hong Kong, said the declining dollar would have little impact on the competitiveness of Asian exporters.
 ''The dollar is not in itself going to influence exports in Asia,'' he said. ''The main thing is that real income growth in the U.S. is slowing down.''
 Fierce competition among Asian exporters has been forcing them to find production savings and steadily reduce the dollar prices of exports to the United States since 1994, Mr. Spencer said. 
 This has been particularly true in the computer and electronics sector, which makes up about 40 percent of the region's export volumes. Even with a sharply depreciating dollar, the price of computers and other electronics sold to the United States actually fell by an average of 2.25 percent over the last year, Mr. Spencer said.
 Moreover, some big export economies either have their currency closely tied to the dollar, as China does, or have been bucking the trend of currency appreciation against the dollar.
 In one week this month, the South Korean won fell about 4 percent, its greatest one-week slide against the dollar since 1998. The weakness in the won has been driven by several factors: foreign investors selling out of the local stock market, Korean companies paying dividends to foreign shareholders, and Korean exporters hedging their currency exposure by buying dollars.
 The lower won is good news for big South Korean exporters of semiconductor chips, mobile phones, flat-screen televisions and automobiles like Samsung, LG and Hyundai.
 Some economists believe there will be some relief for those hurt by a low dollar before long.
 ''The story is dollar weakness for another quarter, and then dollar strengthening for the second half of the year,'' Mr. Spencer said. That could not come too soon for the region's tens of thousands of remittance workers paid in dollars or currencies that are pegged to the dollar.
 Mr. Rosario, the tanker crewman, earns $1,300 a month. Of that, Mr. Rosario, 36, sends $800 home to the Philippines to support his parents and three younger brothers and sisters.
 A few months ago, he remembers sending back about 50,000 pesos a month. Now his monthly remittances are closer to 34,000 pesos.
 ''I am lucky because I have a good job,'' he said. ''But our salary is in dollars and does not go up, while the costs of commodities, food, in the Philippines are getting higher. It makes it harder for my family. We save nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Ze Rong Bag factory in Guangdong Province in southern China. Economists expect weaker demand to reduce Asian exports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOTWEAR MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); EURO (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HONG KONG (92%); PHILIPPINES (90%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



663 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: For Ailey Troupe, at 50, a Street and an 18-Month Tribute

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
There has long been an Alvin Ailey Street in Rogers, the small town in southeast Texas where Ailey was born in 1931. And now, worlds away in bustling Manhattan, West 55th Street from 9th to 10th Avenues will be named Alvin Ailey Place. 
 That is just one of many elements -- including performances, a video installation and even the release of a Barbie doll -- of a 50th anniversary national celebration commemorating the first appearance of the company that came to be known as the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. The full details of the 18-month-long observance will be announced on Thursday at the troupe's center on West 55th Street. The event will include the reading of a Congressional resolution naming the company a ''vital American Cultural Ambassador to the World'' in recognition of tours in 71 countries. 
 The celebration begins on Sunday, when religious institutions around the nation, including the Mount Olive Baptist Church in Rogers, where Ailey was baptized, will feature the singing of select spirituals from Ailey's signature ''Revelations.'' Local dance ministries will perform choreography inspired by the Ailey repertory. 
 It was on March 30, 1958, that a group of black performers calling themselves Alvin Ailey and Dancers took the stage together for the first time, in a performance at the 92nd Street Y. The response to Ailey's ''Blues Suite,'' an instant classic, was frenetic. The 13 dancers, all friends from Broadway shows and the scrabbling modern-dance scene, were unpaid and exhausted. But looking back, many said, they had a sense that something important had happened. 
 ''Everything had connected so beautifully, like a well-fit glove,'' Claude Thompson, one of the dancers, recalled many years later. ''I knew then that I was an artist.'' 
 The tributes will include a video installation at the Ailey center by David Michalek, who created the ''Slow Dancing'' installation at the Lincoln Center Festival in 2007. An exhibition of letters, photographs, choreographic notes and more will open on May 8 at the Library of Congress, where the Ailey archives are housed. It will travel in October to the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, the city where Ailey, who died in 1989, discovered dance as a child. 
 There will be a spring season at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (June 3 to 8), presented by the Joyce Theater. And the company will give free performances and dance classes throughout New York City in August. The troupe's winter season at City Center (Dec. 3 to Jan. 4) will include performances of Ailey's collaborations with Duke Ellington, set to live music by Wynton Marsalis and the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. And the a cappella group Sweet Honey in the Rock will perform in a premiere by Hope Boykin, a company member. 
 The company will not need to announce a $50 million anniversary endowment drive. That goal has already been reached. ''One reason for the endowment is to make sure we can continue touring,'' said Sharon Luckman, executive director of the Ailey company since 1995. ''The economics of touring have gotten so hard. Another reason is to be able to continue with scholarships and living stipends.'' 
 Much of the anniversary money was raised by the Ailey board. Joan Weill, the board's chairwoman, said the company had not only drawn her in with its art and social programs, but it also had an unlikely recruit in her husband, Sanford I. Weill, former chairman of Citigroup. 
 ''Oh, my God,'' Ms. Weill recalled her husband saying when she told him she had joined the Ailey board and would be taking him to performances. But now he loves the company, she said, and the dancers have even invited him to learn some floor stretches.
 There will also be an anniversary Ailey Barbie doll, designed by Judith Jamison, who will step down as the artistic director of the Ailey company in 2011. ''There wasn't a doll that looked like me back then,'' she said of her years as a young ballet student in Philadelphia. 
 ''I chose her skin tone, my color, and her features,'' Ms. Jamison said of the doll, which will be available in November and dressed in a ''Revelations'' costume. ''I wanted her to look as black people look, a mixture of many, many things. She is a beautiful African queen.''
 Why no Ailey Ken doll to advance the notion of male dancers? ''Do you know any other dance company that has its own Barbie Doll?'' Ms. Jamison exclaimed. ''Give me a break.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judith Jamison, above, is the Ailey artistic director. Right, Alvin Ailey, with Lucinda Ransom, center, and Loretta Abbott performing in ''Revelations'' in 1964. Renee Robinson, center, rehearsing for the Ailey anniversary announcement on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ALVIN AILEY ARCHIVES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); MUSIC (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); DANCE COMPANIES (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); DANCE EDUCATION (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); LIBRARIES (69%); RELIGION (67%); PHOTOGRAPHY (62%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (60%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



664 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Equal Alliance, Unequal Roles

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN. 
Robert D. Kaplan is a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington.

DATELINE: Stockbridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 WITH NATO set to hold its annual summit next week in Bucharest, there is concern that the failure of Germany and other members to carry a larger share of the burden in Afghanistan is threatening the alliance's future. Critics complain that it has become an unequal, two-tiered alliance, with the troops of the United States, Britain, Canada and Holland taking the combat role while Germany, Italy, Spain and other members take refuge in the safe areas, refusing to put their soldiers in danger. 
 It certainly isn't fair. Yet predictions of NATO's decline hold it to an impossible cold war standard. Then, a direct mortal threat to Central Europe in the form of Red Army divisions led to an all-for-one and one-for-all mentality. Now that the threat is more subtle and diverse, NATO's mandate, structure and personality need to change accordingly.
 NATO, two-tiers or not, potentially holds as much value to the United States in the multipolar future as it did in the cold war past. Indeed, as we look at the possibility of a ''Pacific Century'' featuring the rise of China as a great power, combined with a resurgent Russia across Eurasia, we should see that an American-European alliance is imperative. 
 Let's face it, the threat of a Taliban comeback in Afghanistan is not of the same order as the threat Germany faced from the Soviet Union, so is it any wonder that Germany's attitude has changed? Rather than bully the Germans into doing what they're not very good at -- counterinsurgency -- in the violent south of Afghanistan, we should be grateful that they're doing something they are good at -- nation-building -- in the relatively peaceful north. 
 The same holds for countries like Italy and Spain, whose troops are also restricted to northern Afghanistan. In the post-cold-war world, individual NATO members can't be expected to automatically take part in missions outside the alliance's traditional European sphere. Participation will be contingent on specific circumstances. And that will lead to an increasingly stratified alliance. 
 Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, NATO's mandate has been a work in progress: from a sole focus on the defense of the European homeland to a three-dimensional engagement in global issues like terrorism, human rights abuses, military partnerships with fledgling democracies, energy security, nuclear proliferation and outbreaks of chaos. 
 This changing focus has necessitated a shift in structure, toward mobile rapid-reaction forces as opposed to cumbersome, conventional infantry units. Unfortunately, the future of the NATO Response Force, proposed in 2002 by then-Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to serve just these needs, is now in some doubt because of the twin burdens of NATO deployments in Afghanistan and Kosovo and the inability of most alliance members to spend at least two percent of their gross domestic products on their militaries.
 In these circumstances, countries like the United States and Britain will simply have to carry a heavier burden than others. But what of it? NATO has always operated as a multi-tiered organization. During the cold war, northern countries essentially ran the show while the southern ones went meekly along (except for Greece, which often protested loudly). France, in a fit of Gaullist pique, pulled out of NATO's unified military structure in 1966, although it remains part of the alliance and took a place on the military committee in 1995. 
 Had there ever been a land war in Europe, American forces would have done the overwhelming amount of the fighting, so why should Afghanistan and future armed clashes be any different? NATO forces were never deployed in a war zone during the cold war, so the inequalities within the organization were masked. Now that its forces are taking the field, those inequalities are exposed. And especially as it expands to include smaller, weaker countries in Eastern and Central Europe, it is natural that NATO should be a multi-layered enterprise, to reflect the great differences in military capabilities and public opinion among its many members.
 In fact, a two-tiered NATO has certain advantages for the United States. Eastward expansion acts as a bulwark against a neo-czarist Russia. Countries close to Russia like Poland and Romania feel NATO is every bit as vital as it was to Western Europe during the cold war, which is the real reason they've helped us in Iraq and Afghanistan. NATO membership represents a seal of good-product approval for former east bloc states seeking investment and stabilization. 
 The very fact that we're even talking about Georgia and Ukraine joining NATO shows how dynamic the alliance still is on a political level. A two-tiered NATO still keeps a retrograde Serbia in a box; this reduces Russian interference in the Balkans to the level of a significant irritant rather than a strategic threat. NATO membership sets parameters for Turkey's democratic experiment with Islamic rule, making it more likely to succeed in ways that the West can tolerate. NATO's Partnership for Peace program, in which second-tier members like Germany participate, gives former Soviet republics in the Caucasus and Central Asia access to NATO training programs, which helps keep them from slipping closer into the Kremlin's orbit.
 The fact that NATO forces don't fight nearly as impressively as the American military doesn't make the alliance useless. Even without a legitimate rapid-reaction force, it is still by world standards a well-oiled, Western political-military machine with command and control protocols honed by six decades of existence. And it is certainly superior to anything the United Nations can muster. 
 In fact, through its ability to participate in out-of-area humanitarian emergencies, NATO still holds the key to a potential global constabulary force that could be led by the United States while at the same time relieving the American military of the burden of going it alone.
 For now, however, we must also look to expand appropriate roles for NATO members not inclined toward combat. One option is sea power. Navies make port visits, they protect sea lanes, they allow for access during humanitarian emergencies. The French, Dutch, Norwegians, Germans and Spanish have all been making serious investments in new ships, especially frigates. With the United States Navy concentrating on competition from China in the Pacific, NATO could become the primary naval force to patrol the North Atlantic and Mediterranean.
 NATO is never going to be a rubber stamp for American proposals like in the darkest days of the cold war. By getting bogged down in Iraq and consequently neglecting Afghanistan, the Bush administration has forced NATO members to bear a military responsibility that many in their heart of hearts do not feel is vital to their interests. 
 Embryonic European pacifism needs to be carefully managed, not just condemned. That is why we must push harder for the NATO Response Force. Europe's aversion to conflict -- and its tendency to reduce geopolitics to negotiations and regulatory disputes -- has not prevented all 26 NATO members from taking part in some capacity in Afghanistan. Europe, merely because of its economic weight, is going to be a significant military power in the 21st century. Our goal should be for that military power to be expressed as much as possible through an American-led alliance.
 The United States will have to forge plenty of other military alliances in the 21st century: area-specific ones for the Pacific andIndian oceans; and culturally specific ones, namely the core group of Anglo-Saxon nations that have borne the brunt of responsibility in Iraq and Afghanistan. But simply because NATO cannot be an alliance of equals does not mean that it won't play a significant role in our grand strategy: to create a web of global arrangements and liberal institutions that will allow America to gradually retreat from its costly and risky position of overbearing dominance. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHOUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SPAIN (93%); ROMANIA (91%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



665 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Equity Loans As Next Round In Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Little by little, millions of Americans surrendered equity in their homes in recent years. Lulled by good times, they borrowed -- sometimes heavily -- against the roofs over their heads.
 Now the bill is coming due. As the housing market spirals downward, home equity loans, which turn home sweet home into cash sweet cash, are becoming the next flash point in the mortgage crisis. 
 Americans owe a staggering $1.1 trillion on home equity loans -- and banks are increasingly worried they may not get some of that money back. 
 To get it, many lenders are taking the extraordinary step of preventing some people from selling their homes or refinancing their mortgages unless they pay off all or part of their home equity loans first. In the past, when home prices were not falling, lenders did not resort to these measures. 
 Such tactics are impeding efforts by policy makers to help struggling homeowners get easier terms on their mortgages and stem the rising tide of foreclosures. But at a time when each day seems to bring more bad news for the financial industry, lenders defend the hard-nosed maneuvers as a way to keep their own losses from deepening. 
 It is a remarkable turnabout for the many Americans who have come to regard a home as an A.T.M. with three bedrooms and 1.5 baths. When times were good, they borrowed against their homes to pay for all sorts of things, from new cars to college educations to a home theater. 
 Lenders also encouraged many aspiring homeowners to take out not one but two mortgages simultaneously -- ordinary ones plus ''piggyback'' loans -- to avoid putting any cash down.
 The result is a nation that only half-owns its homes. While homeownership climbed to record heights in recent years, home equity -- the value of the properties minus the mortgages against them -- has fallen below 50 percent for the first time, according to the Federal Reserve.
 Lenders holding first mortgages get first dibs on borrowers' cash or on the homes should people fall behind on their payments. Banks that made home equity loans are second in line. This arrangement sometimes pits one lender against another. 
 When borrowers default on their mortgages, lenders foreclose and sell the homes to recoup their money. But when homes sell for less than the value of their mortgages and home equity loans -- a situation known as a short sale -- lenders with first liens must be compensated fully before holders of second or third liens get a dime. 
 In places like California, Nevada, Arizona and Florida, where home prices have fallen significantly, second-lien holders can be left with little or nothing once first mortgages are paid.
 In December, 5.7 percent of home equity lines of credit were delinquent or in default, up from 4.5 percent in 2006, according to Moody'sEconomy.com.
 Lenders and investors who hold home equity loans are not giving up easily, however. Instead, they are opposing short sales. And some banks holding second liens are also opposing refinancings for first mortgages, a little-used power they have under the law, in an effort to force borrowers to pay down their loans. 
 ''Acknowledging a loss is the most difficult thing to do,'' said Micheal Thompson, the executive director of the Iowa Mediation Service, which has been working with delinquent borrowers and lenders. ''You have to deal with the reality of what you are facing today.'' 
 While he has been able to strike some deals, Mr. Thompson said that many mortgage companies he talks with refuse to compromise. Holders of second mortgages often agree to short sales and other changes only if first-lien holders pay them a small sum, say $10,000, or 10 percent, on a $100,000 debt. 
 Disagreements arise when the first and second liens are held by different banks or investors. If one lender holds both debts, it is in their interest to find a solution.
 When deals cannot be worked out, second-lien holders can pursue the outstanding balance even after foreclosure, sometimes through collection agencies. The soured home equity debts can linger on credit records and make it harder for people to borrow in the future. 
 Experts say it is in everyone's interest to settle these loans, but doing so is not always easy. Consider Randy and Dawn McLain of Phoenix. The couple decided to sell their home after falling behind on their first mortgage from Chase and a home equity line of credit from CitiFinancial last year, after Randy McLain retired because of a back injury. The couple owed $370,000 in total.
 After three months, the couple found a buyer willing to pay about $300,000 for their home -- a figure representing an 18 percent decline in the value of their home since January 2007, when they took out their home equity credit line. (Single-family home prices in Phoenix have fallen about 18 percent since the summer of 2006, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index.)
 CitiFinancial, which was owed $95,500, rejected the offer because it would have paid off the first mortgage in full but would have left it with a mere $1,000, after fees and closing costs, on the credit line. The real estate agents who worked on the sale say that deal is still better than the one the lender would get if the home was foreclosed on and sold at an auction in a few months. 
 ''If it goes into foreclosure, which it is very likely to do anyway, you wouldn't get anything,'' said J. D. Dougherty, a real estate agent who represented the buyer on the transaction. 
 Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for CitiFinancial, declined to comment on the McLains' situation, citing privacy considerations. 
 ''We strive to find solutions that are acceptable to the various parties involved,'' he said but two lenders can ''value the property differently.'' 
 Other lenders like National City, the bank based in Cleveland, have blocked homeowners from refinancing first mortgages unless the borrowers pay off the second lien held by the bank first. But such tactics carry significant risk, said Michael Youngblood, a portfolio manager and analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey, the securities firm. ''It might also impel the borrower to file for bankruptcy,'' and a judge could write down the value of the second mortgage, he said.
 A spokeswoman for National City, Kristen Baird Adams, said the policy applied only to home equity loans originated by mortgage brokers.
 Underscoring the difficulties likely to arise from home equity loans, a Democratic proposal in Congress to refinance troubled mortgages and provide them with government backing specifically excludes second liens. Lenders holding a second lien would be required to write off their debts before the first loan could be refinanced. That could leave out a significant number of loans, analysts say. 
 People with weak, or subprime, credit could be hurt the most. More than a third of all subprime loans made in 2006 had associated second-lien debt, up from 17 percent in 2000, according to Credit Suisse. And many people added second loans after taking out first mortgages, so it is impossible to say for certain how many homeowners have multiple liens on their properties. 
 ''This is turning out to be a real impediment to solving this problem,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, ''at least, solving it quickly.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: TAPPED OUT: As the housing boom reached its zenith, more homeowners took out second loans against their houses. (Sources: Credit Suisse
 Federal Reserve Board) (pg. A22) Graph showing the housing boom at its peak. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



666 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Profit and Public Good Clash in Grand Plans

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The bitter battles over reconstruction plans for ground zero. The unraveling of the Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn. And now this. 
 Given current economic realities, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's selection on Wednesday of a team led by Tishman Speyer to develop the West Side railyards seems like a wishful fantasy. Yet even if the project takes decades to realize, it is a damning indictment of large-scale development in New York. 
 Like the ground zero and Atlantic Yards fiascos, its overblown scale and reliance on tired urban planning formulas should force a serious reappraisal of the public-private partnerships that shape development in the city today. And in many ways the West Side railyards is the most disturbing of the three. Because of its size and location -- 12.4 million square feet on 26 acres in Midtown -- it will have the most impact on the city's identity. Yet unlike the other two developments, it lacks even the pretense of architectural ambition. 
 On the contrary, as a money-making venture conceived by a cash-starved transit authority, it signals a level of cynicism that should prod us to demand a moratorium on all such development until our public officials return to their senses.
 Dollar signs first appeared in the eyes of authority officials when the city unfurled its misguided vision of playing host to the 2012 Olympics. That plan would have involved building a football stadium for the New York Jets on the western part of the railyards. (The stadium plan was mercifully abandoned in 2005 after it failed to receive state support.)
 The current proposal essentially takes off where that earlier plan left off by championing profit over the public good. Rising on a vast platform to be built over the train tracks, the project is conceived as a series of soaring corporate and residential towers flanking the northern and southern ends of a narrow park running from 10th Avenue to the West Side Highway, between 30th and 33rd Streets. City officials say the deal will generate $1 billion in income over a 99-year lease.
 Designed by Murphy/Jahn, the buildings are a throwback to the days when corporate Modernism was taking its dying breaths. Towering glass blocks, their most original features are a series of deep cantilevers that allow the developer to suspend buildings over the High Line, the public park being built on a stretch of abandoned elevated tracks in Chelsea. (The cantilevers are an obvious reference to the bases of the 1978 Citicorp Center and the former I.B.M. Building of 1983, though at a blown-up scale.)
 Like most of the teams that competed for the project, Murphy/Jahn also chose to open up view corridors to the east and west, creating a canyon of towers that frames views of the Hudson River at one end and the Manhattan skyline at the other.
 But at ground level, the project is miserably depressing. Although it is described as a public park, the central garden is a meager strip of grass, trees and walkways that would be overshadowed by the buildings on either side. Tishman Speyer envisions a gantlet of stores and cafes, further chipping away at any notion of noble public space and threatening to transform the garden into a glorified outdoor mall.
 I'm sorry. Did I say threatening? In fact the park's eastern end, which would be developed first, would be a glorified mall anchored by a vast outdoor plaza. Encircled by rings of shallow steps, the plaza would extend northward to connect to a proposed pedestrian boulevard. Both the plaza and an adjoining multistory mall suggest the kind of pseudosuburbia that has been eating away at our urban identity since the Giuliani years.
 Equally unsettling is how the project fits into the surrounding urban fabric. The towers loom over the High Line, forming a colossal barrier against the Chelsea neighborhood to the south. (Allowing 11th Avenue to run through the site will lessen the effect slightly, but not much.) Arranging the towers along an east-west axis -- a break from the traditional Manhattan grid -- is only apt to reinforce the site's image as an introverted corporate enclave.
 This seems to suit the transportation authority's agenda just fine: it always has been more interested in how much money it could make off the site than in the impact that the development would have on New York. The city could build at much lower density without spending a penny of taxpayer money. Of five competing proposals for the site, only one would have significantly limited its density. That proposal from Steven Holl Architects would have spanned the tracks with a cable structure, and it was one of the first to be rejected. The transportation authority seems to have simply gone with the highest bidder. 
 If recent history teaches us anything, it is that the project is only likely to get worse. This is because of the nature of the urban planning process in New York, which tends to lock in the worst parts of a design while allowing a developer to chip away at what is most original and often most costly.
 New York is experiencing the repercussions of such thinking at ground zero, where Daniel Libeskind's master plan, unveiled by Gov. George E. Pataki to mixed reviews in 2003, is now a distant memory. Various design components have been watered down until they are barely recognizable.
 In the Atlantic Yards project, Forest City Ratner acknowledged last week that it would delay building most of the elements of Frank Gehry's design for that eight million-square-foot development because it is short of financing. If built, the project would be a pathetic distortion of the original design. And the developer already has city approval.
 There will be a similar predicament if the city manages to steamroll the Tishman Speyer railyards proposal through the public review process. The broad outlines will be virtually set in stone, from the position of the park to the location of a yet-unchosen cultural institution. So will the site's density, among the highest in the city. And the architecture within the plan will gradually diminish in quality. The West Side railyards is as good a place as any to start rethinking this disastrous approach to charting the city's future. The transportation authority could begin by taking the planning process out of the hands of bean counters who have little interest in anything but profit. It could bring in more thoughtful voices from the urban planning and architectural fields. It could take into account the ups and downs of the area's economy and how a neighborhood of this scale might evolve.
 But that would mean championing the public good rather than hustling for money.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The architecture column on Thursday, about the choice of a developer for the West Side railyards, referred incorrectly to the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn in citing major developments that have been delayed or altered. The Atlantic Yards plan has been approved by New York State, not New York City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tishman Speyer's vision for the West Side railyards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TISHMAN SPEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); OLYMPICS (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); SPORTS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



667 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Saving Zimbabwe

 BODY:
It has been painful to watch the terrible decline of Zimbabwe, a country so rich in human and natural resources. Perhaps that is why the elections scheduled for Saturday still raise hopes that President Robert Mugabe's destructive rule can be brought to an end, despite the certainty that the vote will be neither free nor fair. 
 This time the challenge is coming from both the battered and splintered opposition and from within. Simba Makoni, a former finance minister, was a ranking member of the ruling party until declaring his candidacy. 
 There is every reason to be cautious given that past. But Mr. Makoni has publicly -- and bravely, given the brutal treatment of critics -- acknowledged the corruption and failings of his former party. And he has talked of forming an alliance with the main opposition candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, who was beaten almost to death by police last year.
 The 84-year-old president is obviously worried. He has dug into his usual bag of sordid campaign tricks: calling his opponents traitors, monopolizing the news media, distributing tractors among rural supporters and signing a law forcing foreign and white-owned companies to sell a majority interest to black Zimbabweans -- meaning, of course, his cronies. The costs of Mr. Mugabe's brutal and capricious rule should be obvious to everyone. Inflation is running at more than 100,000 percent a year. Virtually every once-thriving enterprise, from commercial farming to mining, has run aground.
 Mr. Mugabe's henchmen, including powerful figures in the army, the police force and the fearsome Central Intelligence Organization, are certain to resist any change. Before this weekend's vote, South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, who has been far too passive, and important Western states must send a clear message that those henchmen will pay a high price -- in denied visas or frozen bank accounts -- if they continue to block the will of Zimbabwe's people. 
 Mr. Mugabe's defeat, while fervently hoped for, would not be enough. Saving Zimbabwe will require generous aid and constant pressure from South Africa, Britain, the United States, the European Union and international lenders. All must insist that any new government respects human rights and the rule of law and be ready to provide sustained advice on how to make a difficult transition happen. It is a long shot, but the best shot Zimbabwe has had in years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



668 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Virus Kills Chile's Salmon and Indicts Its Fishing Methods

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting from Santiago, Chile.

DATELINE: PUERTO MONTT, Chile 

 BODY:
Looking out over the low green mountains jutting through miles of placid waterways here in southern Chile, it is hard to imagine that anything could be amiss. But beneath the rows of neatly laid netting around the fish farms just off the shore, the salmon are dying.
 A virus called infectious salmon anemia, or I.S.A., is killing millions of salmon destined for export to Japan, Europe and the United States. The spreading plague has sent shivers through Chile's third-largest export industry, which has left local people embittered by laying off more than 1,000 workers.
 It has also opened the companies to fresh charges from biologists and environmentalists who say that the breeding of salmon in crowded underwater pens is contaminating once-pristine waters and producing potentially unhealthy fish. 
 Some say the industry is raising its fish in ways that court disaster, and producers are coming under new pressure to change their methods to preserve southern Chile's cobalt blue waters for tourists and other marine life. 
 ''All these problems are related to an underlying lack of sanitary controls,'' said Dr. Felipe C. Cabello, a professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at New York Medical College in Valhalla that has studied Chile's fishing industry. ''Parasitic infections, viral infections, fungal infections are all disseminated when the fish are stressed and the centers are too close together.'' 
 Industry executives acknowledge some of the problems, but they reject the notion that their practices are unsafe for consumers. American officials also say the new virus is not harmful to humans. 
 But the latest outbreak has occurred after a rash of nonviral illnesses in recent years that the companies acknowledge have led them to use high levels of antibiotics. Researchers say the practice is widespread in the Chilean industry, which is a mix of international and Chilean producers. Some of those antibiotics, they say, are prohibited for use on animals in the United States.
 Many of those salmon still end up in American grocery stores, where about 29 percent of Chilean exports are destined. While fish from China have come under special scrutiny in recent months, here in Chile regulators have yet to form a registry that even tracks the use of the drugs, researchers said. 
 The new virus is spreading, but it has primarily affected the fish of Marine Harvest, a Norwegian company that is the world's biggest producer of farm-raised salmon and exports about 20 percent of the salmon that come from Chile. 
 Salmon produced in Chile by Marine Harvest are sold in Costco and Safeway stores, among other major grocery retailers, said Torben Petersen, the managing director of Marine Harvest here. 
 Arne Hjeltnes, the main spokesman in Oslo for Marine Harvest, said that his company recognized that antibiotic use was too high in Chile and that fish pens too close together had contributed to the problems. He said Marine Harvest welcomed tougher environmental regulations.
 ''Some people have advocated that this industry is too good to be true,'' Mr. Hjeltnes said. ''But as long as everybody has been making lots of money and it has been going very well, there has been no reason to take tough measures.'' 
 He called the current crisis ''eye-opening'' to the different measures that are needed. 
 On a recent visit to the port of Castro, about 105 miles south of Puerto Montt, a warehouse contained hundreds of bags, some weighing as much as 2,750 pounds, filled with salmon food and medication.
 The bags -- many of which were labeled ''Marine Harvest'' and ''medicated food'' for the fish -- contained antibiotics and pigment as well as hormones to make the fish grow faster, said Adolfo Flores, the port director. 
 Environmentalists say the salmon are being farmed for export at the expense of almost everything else around. The equivalent of 7 to 11 pounds of fresh fish are required to produce 2 pounds of farmed salmon, according to estimates.
 Salmon feces and food pellets are stripping the water of oxygen, killing other marine life and spreading disease, biologists and environmentalists say. Escaped salmon are eating other fish species and have begun invading rivers and lakes as far away as neighboring Argentina, researchers say. 
 ''It is simply not possible to produce fish on an industrial scale in a sustainable way,'' said Wolfram Heise, director of the marine conservation program at the Pumalin Project, a private conservation initiative in Chile. ''You will never get it into ecological balance.''
 When companies began breeding non-native Atlantic salmon here some two decades ago, salmon farming was seen as a godsend for this sparsely populated area of sleepy fishing towns and campgrounds. 
 The industry has grown eightfold since 1990. Today it employs 53,000 people either directly or indirectly. Marine Harvest runs the world's largest ''closed system'' fish-farming operation at Rio Blanco, near Puerto Montt, where 35 million fish a year are raised until they weigh about a third of an ounce. 
 As the industry abandons the Lakes region in search of uncontaminated waters elsewhere, local residents are angry and worried about their future. 
 The salmon companies ''are robbing us of our wealth,'' said Victor Guttierrez, a fisherman from Cochamo, a town ringing the Gulf of Reloncavi, which is dotted with salmon farms. ''They bring illnesses and then leave us with the problems.'' 
 Since discovering the virus in Chile last July, Marine Harvest has closed 14 of its 60 centers and announced it would lay off 1,200 workers, or one-quarter of its Chilean operation. Since the company announced last month that it would move south, to Aysen, the government has said the virus has spread there as well, in two outbreaks not involving Marine Harvest.
 Industry officials say Chile is suffering growing pains similar to salmon farming operations in Norway, Scotland and the Faroe Islands, where a different form of the I.S.A. virus struck previously. 
 Norway, the world's leading salmon producer, eventually decided to spread salmon farms farther apart, reducing stress on the fish, and responded to criticism of high antibiotic use with stronger regulations and the development of vaccines.
 Researchers in Chile say the problems of salmon farming go well beyond the latest virus. Their concerns mirror those of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, which heavily criticized Chile's farm-fishing industry in a 2005 report. 
 The O.E.C.D. said the industry needed to limit the escapes of about one million salmon a year; control the use of fungicides like green malachite, a carcinogen that was prohibited in 2002; and better regulate the colorant used to make salmon more rosy, which has been associated with retina problems in humans. It also said Chile's use of antibiotics was ''excessive.'' 
 Officials at Sernapesca, Chile's national fish agency, declined repeated requests for interviews for this article and did not respond to written questions submitted more than a week ago. 
 But Cesar Barros, the president of SalmonChile, an industry association, said, ''We are working with the government to improve the situation.'' 
 He dismissed the broader criticism of sanitary conditions, saying there was no scientific evidence to support the claims. But researchers charge that the industry has been reluctant to pay for scientific studies, which Chile sorely needs. 
 Residual antibiotics have been detected in Chilean salmon that have been exported to the United States, Canada and Europe, Dr. Cabello said. 
 He estimated that 70 to 300 times more antibiotics are used by salmon producers in Chile to produce a ton of salmon than in Norway. But no hard data exist to corroborate the estimates, he said, ''because there is almost an underground market of antibiotics in Chile for salmon aquaculture.''
 Researchers say that some antibiotics that are not allowed in American aquaculture, like flumequine and oxolinic acid, are legal in Chile and may increase antibiotic resistance for people. Last June the United States Food and Drug Administration blocked the sale of five types of Chinese seafood because of the use of fluoroquinolones and other additives. 
 But huge numbers of fish go uninspected. The F.D.A. inspected only 1.93 percent of all imported seafood in 2006, Food and Water Watch said, citing F.D.A. data.
 Stephanie Kwisnek, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., said that she did not know the percentage inspected. But she said the F.D.A. tested 40 samples of the 114,320 net tons of salmon imported from Chile in 2007. None of them tested positive for malachite green, oxolinic acid, flumequine, Ivermectin, fluoroquinolones or drug residues, she said.
 The F.D.A. is planning an inspection trip to assess Chile's overall controls on its farmed salmon, she added.
 Mr. Petersen, the managing director of Marine Harvest in Chile, said the company planned to return to the Lakes region in a few years, once the area had become free of contamination. In the longer term, he said, Marine Harvest will leave Chile's fresh-water lakes and produce more older salmon in closed systems where it can maintain ''biological control.'' 
 Meanwhile, neighboring fishermen who have been affected by the fish-farming industry can only hope for better days. Mr. Guttierrez, 33, said that just six years ago he and his fishing partner would haul in 1,100 pounds of robalo on a typical day. On a recent day he pointed to that morning's catch of only 88 pounds in a cooler in the bed of a pickup truck. 
 He lamented the changes he had observed in the fish: they are rosier than before, and their skin is flabbier. He said he suspected that the wild fish were eating the same food pellets that the salmon were being fed, which he said were falling to the sea floor. 
 ''If the water continues to be contaminated, we will simply have to go to another area to find our fish,'' he said. ''But it is getting harder and harder.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 27 reported on a virus, infectious salmon anemia, or I.S.A., killing millions of salmon cultivated for export by Chile's salmon farming industry. It quoted an official at the port of Castro, Chile, describing bags of fish food stored at the facility by Marine Harvest, a Norwegian company, as containing antibiotics, pigments and hormones. The official, Adolfo Flores, identified himself as the port director. He in fact worked as a security guard, The Times learned subsequently. Had The Times been aware of his actual position at the time, it would not have cited him as an authority on the contents of the bags, which were labeled medicated food. The article also should have noted that Marine Harvest and SalmonChile, an industry association, deny that they use hormones or that the pigments they use pose any risk to consumers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fish farm near Puerto Montt owned by Marine Harvest, a Norwegian company that is the largest producer of farm-raised salmon and exports 20 percent of the salmon that come from Chile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO PINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A15)
 An industry boat off Puerto Montt. The industry admits some problems, but denies that it endangers consumers. Fish at a Puerto Montt market. The industry is moving to cleaner waters, leaving local people fearful for the future. Salmon pens in the Gulf of Reloncavi. Crowded pens are blamed for water pollution and potentially unhealthy fish. A fisherman and his catch at Puerto Montt, Chile, where infectious salmon anemia is killing millions of fish destined for export to Japan, Europe and America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO PINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A6) MAP: Puerto Montt is at the center of a dispute over fishing. (pg. A6) Map of Puerto Montt in Chile. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); FISHES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); AQUACULTURE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); FINFISH FARMING (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (77%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (77%); MOUNTAINS (73%); FINFISH FISHING (72%); RETAILERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); IMMUNOLOGY (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: BOOKER PLC (85%); SAFEWAY INC (61%)

TICKER: SWY (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (61%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (72%) CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); NORWAY (92%); EUROPE (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



669 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Key Metropolitan Areas Growing, but More Slowly

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fewer people flocked to the nation's fastest-growing metropolitan regions last year compared with the year before, the Census Bureau is reporting on Thursday. 
 As a result, older areas, particularly in the Northeast and Midwest, stanched their losses. Some even recorded small rebounds. 
 The Dallas-Fort Worth region registered the biggest gain, 162,250, in the year ending July 1, 2007, followed by Atlanta, Phoenix and Houston. Those three also grew more than 100,000 each. 
 Yet those metropolitan regions grew more slowly than they had the year before. In that year, Houston was followed by Dallas, Atlanta and Phoenix.
 Since 2000, metropolitan Atlanta ranked first in growth, adding more than one million people, a 24 percent increase. Dallas was second, with nearly a million more, a 19 percent increase. 
 ''Last year, job growth in Texas was triple that of the nation, so it wouldn't be surprising to find that people are choosing to move here, because there are jobs,'' said Fiona Sigalla, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
 In addition, house prices there have been stable compared with other areas, Ms. Sigalla said, adding, ''We have lots of available land and fewer regulations, so we have a homebuilding boom sufficient to keep home prices at bay.''
 The latest growth pattern of metropolitan regions mirrored census results released last week for the counties. That report showed that New Orleans was slowly beginning to recover from the severe population losses after Hurricane Katrina and that growth had cooled in a number of previous hot spots, including Florida and the West.
 The bursting housing bubble appeared to be the most significant factor affecting growth rates in places like Orlando, Phoenix, Las Vegas and Riverside, Calif. 
 Twenty-two of the 30 bigger Sun Belt metropolitan regions that grew fastest since 2000 expanded more slowly in the latest year, said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution. In that period, 17 of the 20 slowest-growing Northeast and Midwest metropolitan regions grew faster.
 Metropolitan New York recorded the greatest shift. From 2005 to 2006, the area lost 270,000 inhabitants. From 2006 to 2007, its population declined 219,000. 
 Metropolitan Chicago shrunk 20,000 as of July 1, 2007, half the loss of the prior year. 
 Reduced migration from older metropolitan regions, coupled with the continuing influx of foreigners, decreased the outflows from parts of Connecticut; Providence, R.I.; and Boston and in areas of upstate New York, western Pennsylvania and the Great Lakes that had been hemorrhaging population. Even Buffalo lost fewer people than the year before. 
 One exception was Detroit, which recorded its greatest domestic migration loss of the decade, more than 58,000. 
 Like parts of the Northeast and Midwest, coastal California also appeared to be retaining residents who might otherwise have moved to hot housing meccas. 
 Sun Belt metropolitan regions where government and technology continued to generate jobs -- including Austin, Tex., and Raleigh and Charlotte, N.C. -- seemed largely unaffected by slower growth. So were Washington, San Francisco and San Jose, Calif., which suffered early in the decade.
 In percentage of population, 8 of the 10 fastest-growing metropolitan regions were in the South, topped by Palm Coast, Fla., at 7.2 percent. Four, including Raleigh, Austin and Charlotte, were also among the biggest numerical gainers. St. George, Utah, ranked second, at 5.1 percent. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a census report that compared population figures in metropolitans areas for 2005-06 and 2006-07 described shifts in New York and Chicago incorrectly. Both showed a decline in the number of residents lost to domestic migration -- not in the overall number of residents. (The overall population increased for both areas.)

GRAPHIC: MAP: GAINS AND LOSSES: The fastest-growing metropolitan areas in 2007 were concentrated in the South and the West. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) Map showing the fastest growing metropolitan areas in 2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (87%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); HURRICANES (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); RANKINGS (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (75%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



670 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MAY, JOHN A. (JACK)

 BODY:
 MAY--John A. (Jack), 79, of Berwyn, Pennsylvania, a prominent lawyer and businessman, died suddenly Easter morning of heart failure at his second home in Hobe Sound, Florida. Mr. May, the son of A. John May and Sara Brothers McLaughlin, was born in Petoskey, Michigan on November 2, 1928. He grew up in Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania, graduated from Mercersburg Academy in 1946 and then attended Princeton University on an ROTC scholarship. A member of the Cloister Club, he graduated from Princeton with a degree in Economics in 1950. Following his first year at Harvard Law School, Mr. May was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army, serving as a forward artillery observer with the 18th Airborne Corps and 45th Infantry Division in Korea from 1951 to 1952, ending his active service as a Captain. He continued to serve as a reserve officer in the 108th Field Artillery, 28th Infantry Division of the Pennsylvania National Guard until 1957. Mr. May married Gwendolyn Abrahamsen in 1952. Mr. May received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1954. Mr. May joined the law firm of Duane, Morris and Heckscher (now Duane Morris LLP), headquartered in Philadelphia, in 1954. He was made a partner in the firm in 1962, served as Vice-Chairman from 1985 to 1990, Chairman and CEO from 1990 until 1995 and Counsel to the firm from his retirement in 1999 until his death. 
He loved the legal profession and convinced his son and three daughters to attend law school as the best form of education possible. In addition to the practice of law, Mr. May was active in many business ventures involving property and casualty companies and various publicly and privately owned manufacturing companies. He was a Director and then Chairman of the PMA Capital Corporation, a director of the PMA Foundation, and a director of the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association. Mr. May was also very involved in his community. In 1988, Mr. May was honored by the Easttown Township Board of Supervisors for his nearly thirty years of continuous township service. He served on the township Zoning Board of Adjustment from 1959-1984 as both a member of the committee and its Chairman, as well as serving as a member and Chairman of the township's Planning Commission from 1970 to 1983. He was a board member and later President of the School Board and a member of the township Board of Supervisors. He was instrumental in developing Trinity House in Berwyn, a living facility for low and middle income elderly residents. Perhaps as important as the practice of law, Mr. May loved the game of golf. A member of several golf clubs, including Pine Valley and Loblolly, Mr. May was one of the founders and early President of Waynesborough Country Club in Paoli, Pennsylvania and the founder and Chairman of Stonewall in Elverson, Pennsylvania. With the active support of his wife, he traveled to England, Scotland and Ireland every summer for 25 years to play golf at the birthplace of the game and owned a house in the Dominican Republic where he could indulge his passion during the winter. He is survived by his wife of fifty-five years, Gwendolyn, his son, A. John May III and his wife, Jeanne of Paoli, PA, his daughters, Ann Moore of Milford, CT, Susan Eckman and her husband, Rick of Chadds Ford, PA and Elizabeth Gieske and her husband, Edward of Paoli, PA and 14 grandchildren. He will be remembered by his family as a man who shaped their lives with the force of his intellect and his personality and for his generosity; and who was always there when needed. The funeral will be private with a celebration of life held at Stonewall Golf Club on Saturday, March 29th at 4:00pm. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions in his memory to the J. Wood Platt Caddy Scholarship Fund. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); ARMIES (76%); GOLF (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); ZONING (61%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: DUANE MORRIS LLP (93%); PMA COS INC (81%); PENNSYLVANIA MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION INSURANCE CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (81%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



671 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Early Dazzle, Then Tough Path for a Governor

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Deval Patrick has lately addressed doting crowds around the country as a surrogate for Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, his friend and fellow gifted orator. Last month, Mr. Obama even acknowledged borrowing language from Mr. Patrick's stump speeches, casting a flattering light on a novice politician barely known outside Massachusetts.
 But there is no such glow at home for Mr. Patrick, the first Democrat to lead his state in 16 years and the nation's second elected black governor.
 Mr. Patrick, who easily won office in 2006 after dazzling voters with a message of hope and change, suffered a nasty defeat last week at the hands of the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives, which quashed his proposal to increase revenues by allowing three resort casinos in the state. None of the governor's major policy proposals have cleared the Legislature, in fact, and he and Salvatore DiMasi, the speaker of the House, have taken to trading barbs publicly. 
 Mr. Patrick is faring better than a year ago, when he was under siege for spending more than $10,000 on drapes for his State House office and upgrading his state car from a Ford Crown Victoria to a Cadillac. (He later agreed to reimburse the state for the drapes and part of the car lease.) By his third month in office, Mr. Patrick had announced that his wife was being treated for depression, and by his fourth, he had overhauled his staff. 
 But even now, governing is not coming easily for Mr. Patrick, 51, a former civil rights lawyer and corporate executive who came to Massachusetts on a prep school scholarship in the '70s.
 So why has he struggled for traction in a heavily Democratic state with a Legislature that should be on his side? 
 He blames Speaker DiMasi, a veteran of Beacon Hill who embraces old-school ways of doing business and holds far more sway than the governor over his members. Mr. Patrick believes his casino bill could have passed if Mr. DiMasi, who said gambling would be a scourge on the state, had not pressured lawmakers to oppose it. 
 ''It's part of what we ran against, and it needs to be called out,'' Mr. Patrick said in an interview last week on the day before the House overwhelmingly killed the bill. ''We're going to keep working on it until we get a Democratic process that's functioning.''
 In addition to the gambling plan, which would have allowed up to three resort casinos here, Mr. DiMasi has rejected Mr. Patrick's proposals to let towns raise certain taxes and to eliminate a century-old property tax exemption for telecommunications companies. But the casino plan drew the most attention and is Mr. Patrick's highest-profile defeat to date. 
 ''He's got to score some major successes to prove he is relevant,'' said Paul Watanabe, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. ''One thing you don't want to be is irrelevant, especially with the kind of appeal that he had as a candidate and is similar to that of Barack Obama.''
 Mr. DiMasi, who supports Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York for president, has openly tried to link Mr. Obama to Mr. Patrick's difficulties, suggesting, along with other critics, that the two are alike in their lack of executive experience. Before the Massachusetts primary in February, Mr. DiMasi said that he did not want a president ''in there on a learning process'' during his first year in office. (Despite endorsements from Mr. Patrick and Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry of Massachusetts, Mr. Obama lost to Mrs. Clinton here by a wide margin.) 
 But Mr. Patrick dismissed the comparison, saying Mr. Obama had far more political experience than he, and defended his own record. 
 ''I don't accept that we can't get anything done because we lose one issue,'' he said in the interview. ''Come on. People around here act like the only thing that happened last year was picking these drapes and buying a car. There's a whole lot more.''
 In particular, Mr. Patrick said the state had increased spending on education, housing and public safety; that 300,000 residents had acquired health insurance under its universal care system; and that with the legislative leadership, he had killed a proposed constitutional amendment to define marriage as between a man and a woman.
 He and his aides played down the significance of the casino plan as it foundered last week, saying that other economic development proposals -- including a $1 billion plan to expand the life sciences industry here and another to generate more business tax revenue by closing loopholes -- are far more important. Versions of both bills are moving through the Legislature.
 ''Even the speaker doesn't want to be in the position of saying no to everything the governor brings forward,'' Mr. Patrick said. ''Even he appreciates that there are consequences to his members that come from that.''
 Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Patrick went to law school at Harvard and rose in politics by casting himself as an outsider and an agent of change. Both men used powerful, inspiring language to win broad grass-roots support.
 Mr. Patrick took a different path to power, however, serving as assistant United States attorney general for civil rights during President Bill Clinton's first term, then as a top executive at Texaco, where he helped carry out a race discrimination settlement, and at Coca-Cola. 
 He declared his candidacy for governor in 2005 and was thought to have no chance against his Democratic primary opponents, both seasoned politicians whom he beat soundly. He connected with voters, using his outsider status to build excitement and grass-roots support. 
 ''I came here to change politics as usual,'' Mr. Patrick said at the state Democratic convention in 2006. ''Because what's missing from politics as usual is hope. We have been governed for too long by fear and low aim and salesmanship.''
 Even some of Mr. Patrick's strongest supporters have lost a little faith, including liberal Democrats who oppose casinos. (''Has Patrick become a lesson in the limitation of words?'' a local radio host, David Boeri, asked at the start of a show on the subject last month.)
 Others say it is far too soon to judge the governor, and that in fact, he is changing the paradigm on Beacon Hill, where a string of Republican governors cut taxes and the Legislature, eager to shake the ''Taxachusetts'' cliche, often went along. 
 ''He put on the table the presumption that we are going to need new revenue,'' said Stephen Crosby, dean of the McCormack Graduate School of Policy Studies at the University of Massachusetts, who served on Mr. Patrick's transition team. ''In that sense he changed the conversation totally from where it's been for 16 years.''
 It is also too soon to predict whether Mr. Patrick will ascend beyond state politics, as so many other Massachusetts lawmakers have done. He will continue campaigning for Mr. Obama, his aides said, though they stressed he would do so only on personal time. He has ruled out cutting his term short to join an Obama administration, telling reporters in Washington last month, ''I love this job.''
 Mr. Crosby said Mr. Patrick's failed bid for casinos did not portend trouble so much as the recent ''bomb tossing'' between him and the speaker.
 ''This feels like there might be some serious personal antipathy,'' Mr. Crosby said. ''If it's true, that's a problem.'' 
 The state is also facing a $1.3 billion shortfall in its $28 billion budget, making the prospect of gridlock all the more troubling.
 Regardless, Mr. Patrick said he felt new momentum this year, partly because he has realized the importance of building support for his proposals inside the State House and out. ''The other thing I would say is I have a better idea this year about who to trust and who not to,'' he said. ''And you better believe that's helped.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, is working with a Democratic Legislature but has been at odds with Salvatore DiMasi, the speaker of the House, and suffered a nasty defeat on a casino plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CASINOS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



672 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: The Uncle Al Election

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
When I was a kid in Cincinnati, there was a local children's TV show that always featured a race. Little boys and girls ran around in circles for what seemed like a very long time, until the host threw up his hands and yelled: ''Everybody wins!''
 ''Uncle Al,'' said my brother, Gary. 
 The participants did not necessarily enjoy the experience. ''I cried for hours,'' said my sister-in-law, Laura.
 The race between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama has now turned into one very long Uncle Al show. Everybody wins! Nobody loses! How do we make them stop?
 The genius that is the Democratic Party has somehow managed to create a system in which two candidates can run for five months in all 50 states and neither one can possibly win enough delegates to clinch the nomination. 
 We should have known this was coming when people started talking about how exciting the Clinton-Obama race is. We live, after all, in a country where the Christmas shopping season begins in October. We have a sports calendar in which basketball leaches into baseball, which leaches into football. Too much of a good thing is our middle name. Now, the Democratic primary has become the McMansion of politics.
 Many are the suggestions for how to make it stop, all of which boil down to making Hillary Clinton go away. The most entertaining by far is the call for Howard Dean to Lay Down the Law. Stop the bloodshed, Howard! The governor of Tennessee announced that as party chairman Dean ''needs to step up and bring some closure.'' Truly, anybody who believes that Howard Dean can make Hillary Clinton do anything she doesn't want to do is living in Fantasyland. 
 Who do they think she is, the Clinton campaign mutters -- some girl who'll give way so the guy can get what he wants?
 Anyway, Clinton argued, sitting backstage at an event in Philadelphia, fighting a cough, the voters don't want it to be over. At her church on Easter Sunday, she said, people kept coming up and begging her to keep going. ''We have people who deserve to have their voices heard.'' 
 The church part is undoubtedly true. There are very few instances in American history where presidential candidates have been begged by their fellow parishioners to pack it in and go home. And there are plenty of other people who wouldn't mind letting this go on for a while longer to see just how Obama fares in those Midwestern states that have seemed immune to his charms lately.
 Right now he's ahead by almost every conceivable count. The superdelegates, who will almost surely have to decide the nomination, have been around the political block a time or two. They know what a mess they would create if they seemed to be ignoring the popular will. 
 But the idea that Clinton would quit at this juncture goes contrary to every single thing we have learned about her over the past 17 years. She may irritate people. She may lose the health care initiative. She may even imagine that she was under fire in Bosnia when in fact she was standing on the tarmac accepting flowers from a little blonde girl. But she never gives up.
 The one unassailable fact about Hillary Clinton is not that she'd make the best decision when the phone rings at 3 a.m. in the White House. It's that if the phone rang at the same time that her polls were at 12 percent and her attorney general was under indictment and the economy was in the tank and California had just broken off and fallen into the sea, she would still pick up the receiver.
 There isn't a right or wrong to this argument -- only strategy. Obama didn't overexert himself to help find a way to let Michigan and Florida re-vote because it wasn't to his advantage. And while ending the negativity would be nice, the Obamaites would mainly like to call a halt because they don't want to risk something weird and undesirable happening. Hillary plans to continue in the hope that the weird and undesirable will occur.
 ''I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't think number one, that I would be a better president and number two that I would be a better candidate to beat John McCain,'' she said. ''I believe that with all my heart. Now, he may equally believe it. But I'm not about to walk out on these upcoming contests.''
 I say her strategic desire to keep fighting trumps his strategic desire to put the lid on it. Even though there really is something very upsetting about a struggle that goes on and on and on without resolution. I know this because, with one phone call to Ohio, I managed to find three people who are still haunted by Uncle Al's race. As we all know, three people constitute a trend.
 ''I used to dream that my family was sucked into the TV, one by one,'' said Catherine Tape, who works with my brother. ''They had to run in circles around our basement stairs, and I was responsible for getting them out. But I couldn't.''
 ''Maybe there should be a support group,'' my sister-in-law said.
 Maybe Howard Dean would like to join. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (88%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SUPERDELEGATES (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); CHRISTMAS (69%); BASEBALL (66%); BASKETBALL (66%); EASTER SEASON (60%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



673 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Senators Seek Details About Bear Stearns Deal

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senior senators signaled their unease on Wednesday with the Federal Reserve's shotgun marriage of JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns, demanding detailed information by next week about how the $30 billion deal was reached. 
 The challenge from Capitol Hill is the most striking shot in a rising political battle about whether the Fed's decision to provide emergency loans to major Wall Street investment banks should be accompanied by stricter regulation over their activities -- as is already the case for commercial banks.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. defended the Fed's rescue of Bear Stearns in a speech on Wednesday and resisted calls by some Democrats for greater regulation of Wall Street. 
 ''Recent market conditions are an exception from the norm,'' Mr. Paulson said in a speech at the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. ''The Federal Reserve's recent action should be viewed as a precedent only for unusual periods of turmoil.'' 
 Though Mr. Paulson said that Wall Street firms should provide more information about their financial condition if they borrow money from the Fed, he said that investment banks were still fundamentally different from commercial banks and did not endorse any proposals for tighter regulation.
 But in the Senate, the two leading members of the Finance Committee raised questions about policies being pursued by the Fed and the Bush administration in dealing with the credit crisis. 
 ''Americans are being asked to back a brand-new kind of transaction, to the tune of tens of billions of dollars,'' wrote Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the committee. ''Congress has a responsibility to look at whether the taxpayers will lose money here.''
 Senator Chris Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, also announced a hearing for next Thursday on the Bear Stearns deal and summoned Mr. Paulson, along with Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed, and Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 The senators did not mention any specific suspicions about the deal, but the range of their requests suggested concerns about the motives of the various negotiations, the soundness of the deal and the potential precedent for future bailouts. Lawmakers made it clear they also had questions about the government's broader response to the widening financial crisis and the soaring rate of home foreclosures.
 In the deal announced on Monday, the Fed agreed to lend JPMorgan Chase $29 billion and to hold as collateral what Fed officials estimated were $30 billion worth of mortgage-related assets owned by Bear Stearns. Working together, Fed and Treasury officials were convinced that Bear Stearns was about to go bankrupt and set off a systemic breakdown in financial markets.
 But scores of questions remain unanswered. No one knows the real value of the assets formerly owned by Bear Stearns that the Fed agreed to take as collateral. Fed officials have said they greatly discounted the value of those assets before agreeing to the $29 billion loan, but they have offered no detail of what those assets actually look like.
 Mr. Baucus and Mr. Grassley, on the Senate Finance Committee, demanded that the Treasury and Fed provide a detailed list of Bear Stearns assets, as well as a memorandum on the sequence of events leading up to the deal, the names of every participant in the discussions, including those of lawyers, accountants and other advisers.
 Mr. Dodd said the agreement ''raises serious public policy questions'' about the role of the Fed, the Treasury and the Securities and Exchange Commission as the deal's ''facilitators.''
 The broader question for lawmakers is whether the Fed's rescue, and its simultaneous decision to let the nation's biggest investment banks borrow from its discount window, mean that the Fed should subject Wall Street firms to the same scrutiny and regulation as it now imposes on commercial banks.
 For the first time since the Depression, the Fed announced on March 16 that big investment firms would be allowed to borrow billions of dollars from the Fed's so-called discount window.
 The discount window is normally reserved only for commercial banks and other depository institutions, which in exchange subject themselves to closer scrutiny and stricter capital reserve requirements.
 Several leading Democrats in Congress are now calling for tighter regulation of Wall Street firms, saying that they are getting some of the same protection as commercial banks without the same kind of regulation.
 Mr. Paulson acknowledged that the Fed's decision had created a contradiction between how commercial and investment banks are treated. He said that investment banks should be subjected to ''the same type of regulation'' if they were to have ''regular'' access to the Fed's discount window.
 But Mr. Paulson quickly added that the Fed's offer to the investment banks should be seen as the exception to the rule. 
 Mr. Paulson also took a swipe at Democratic proposals to have the government refinance millions of troubled mortgages to reduce what is expected to be a tidal wave of home foreclosures.
 ''I know members of Congress have outlined other ideas,'' he said, ''but most are not ready for the starting gate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr. addressed regulation at a summit Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



674 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Adds Terms For Its Aid To the North

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
The new, conservative South Korean government took a tougher line on North Korea on Wednesday, warning that it would speak out against human rights abuses in the Communist North and that it would not expand economic ties unless the North abandoned its nuclear weapons programs.
 North Korea angrily reacted on Thursday by expelling 11 South Korean officials based in a joint industrial complex in the North Korean border town of Kaesong. 
 The new South Korean policy, outlined by the new president, Lee Myung-bak, means at least a temporary reduction in generous South Korean economic aid at a dire time for the North, with cuts in humanitarian aid expected to follow. In recent weeks, relief experts have warned that food shortages in the North will worsen because of high global commodity prices, flood damage and aid donors' reluctance in light of the country's nuclear wrangling with the United States. 
 ''The speed and scope of, as well as ways to push for any development in, inter-Korean relations will be decided according to progress in the North Korean nuclear issue,'' Unification Minister Kim Ha-joong, the South's major policy maker on the North, said during a briefing. 
 Mr. Kim said Seoul would not push for any joint economic programs with the North, absent progress in the nuclear disarmament talks. He also vowed to emphasize the issue of the return of South Korean citizens kidnapped by the North during and after the Korean War, which previous governments have largely skirted. 
 Hours after South Korea announced its firmer policy, North Korea expelled the 11 South Koreans in Kaesong. The Kaesong complex, where the South Korean companies run shoe and other factories with North Korean labor, has symbolized the earlier Seoul governments' ''sunshine policy'' of using economic projects to encourage the North to open up and embrace a market economy.
 The South Korean officials had been stationed there to help run the complex. Operations at the Kaesong factories were not immediately affected.
 Mr. Lee, who took office last month, has accused his predecessors of making too many concessions to the North in the name of reconciliation and has vowed not to shy away from criticizing the North on human rights. 
 ''I love North Korean people more than anybody else, and I believe the North Korean people should get to a point where they can enjoy the minimum basic happiness of human beings,'' Mr. Lee said Wednesday. 
 Some analysts said Mr. Lee risked alienating North Korea. Although the North is dependent on aid, which has increased under the liberal South Korean governments of the past 10 years, it has in the past refused aid that was not given on its own terms. 
 The new policy also slows a bold economic effort by South Korea over the past decade to build South Korean factories in North Korea, where the companies that own them can use the cheap labor there to compete better with China. 
 South Korea on Wednesday confirmed reports that it would vote this week for a United Nations Human Rights Council resolution criticizing North Korea as an abuser of human rights and seeking an extended United Nations investigation. That decision is also a change from the policies of the previous governments. 
 Under the liberal governments of Mr. Lee's predecessors, Roh Moo-hyun and Kim Dae-jung, Seoul was reluctant to criticize the North publicly out of concern that doing so might hurt ties and efforts to resolve the international standoff over the North's nuclear program. 
 This week, the South's National Human Rights Commission said for the first time that it would investigate human rights abuses in North Korea. Previously, the commission focused almost exclusively on issues within South Korea's borders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); KOREAN WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DISARMAMENT (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



675 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: New Day, Line by Budget Line

 BODY:
Moving beyond the steamy executive headlines, the New York Statehouse had better show taxpayers something more promising than business as usual as it tackles the deficit-threatened state budget. One quick test, buried in the fine print, would strike a blow for both juvenile justice and budget savings by shutting six of the state's 31 residential detention centers for juveniles. 
 Studies show such centers -- which warehouse largely nonviolent offenders far from their families -- are counterproductive and prohibitively costly. Center alumni have higher rates of recidivism compared with those placed in alternative programs in their home communities.
 What should be a budgetary no-brainer, however, is already being undermined by the Senate Republicans. In an obvious move to protect upstate jobs for local constituents, they are insisting on keeping open three of the expendable and virtually unused centers. One of the centers the Senate would spare would be staffed even though there are no youths residing there in its 24 slots. Each empty bed costs taxpayers more than $140,000 annually to maintain. A second has 25 beds and three residents, while the third has 11 children for its 25 beds. 
 The millions that would be wasted in this proposed shell game present a small but revealing indicator of whether Gov. David Paterson can live up to his inaugural promise to end the turf struggles and get something better from government. 
 There are far larger budget fights looming, dollarwise. But here is a worthy chance for Governor Paterson to show business as usual will not always trump justice and economic sense in a supposedly chastened Albany. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); FAMILY (76%); RECIDIVISM RATES (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



676 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: California Utility to Install Solar Panels

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
An electric company plans to install a huge patchwork of solar cells, 10 times bigger than any previous such installation, on more than 100 large rooftops around Southern California.
 The California governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, will take part when Southern California Edison announces the plan on Thursday. The solar panels, covering more than two square miles of rooftop, will be able to produce 250 megawatts of electricity when the sun is shining, enough to power about 160,000 homes. 
 Solar photovoltaic installations are usually measured in thousandths of a megawatt, and Edison's order is roughly equal to all the solar cells produced in the United States last year.
 The plan illustrates the shifting finances and growing scale of the solar industry. Once consisting mainly of small projects paid for by the owners of homes or businesses, solar installations are increasingly being financed by companies that offer cheaper electricity or lease payments in exchange for the use of a roof.
 Southern California Edison faces strong growth in electricity demand, John E. Bryson, the chairman and chief executive, said in a telephone interview. 
 Edison is under orders from the state to produce 20 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2010, a goal Mr. Bryson said it was unlikely to meet. Among the challenges is building new transmission lines from areas that are appropriate for windmills or other renewable sources.
 In contrast, the solar installations are simple, he said. ''We kick this off, and we believe we will even have some on rooftops available to help meet the August summer peak,'' he said. Finishing the $875 million project will take about five years, and it requires approval from state regulators.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger is scheduled to appear at the announcement Thursday on the roof of a warehouse in an industrial neighborhood near the airport in Ontario, Calif. 
 He said in a statement, ''These are the kinds of big ideas we need to meet California's long-term energy and climate change goals.'' He added that more partnerships between commercial building owners and utilities could ''set off a huge wave of renewable energy growth.''
 Edison plans to cut costs by putting in relatively large installations, with teams moving from building to building. Advocates hope that the project's scale will change the basic economics of solar cells, whose power is far more expensive than conventional electricity. Southern California Edison will own the cells and install them on leased space. 
 The largest solar installation in this country is 14 megawatts, at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. The largest in the world, in Spain, is 23 megawatts. Of the top 10 worldwide, all are in Spain or Germany, except for Nellis.
 While the installation is huge in solar terms, it is only about half the size of a modest coal-fired power plant, and its energy output over a year will be only about a fourth to a third of what a coal plant of the same size would produce. That is because the solar plant will work only in daylight, and produce maximum power only when the sun is directly overhead and unobstructed by clouds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); WIND ENERGY (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (77%); JOHN E BRYSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (90%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



677 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Business Confidence Is Up in Europe

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Europe is shrugging off the thunderclouds in the United States, with new surveys on Wednesday showing rising business confidence in Germany, France and Belgium, while the president of the European Central Bank damped hopes for a cut in interest rates anytime soon.
 Taken together, these developments seemed to turn an adage about trans-Atlantic economic relations on its head: When the United States catches a cold, does Europe even sneeze? 
 In truth, few public officials or economists expect Europe to escape the effects of a downturn in the United States. Financial markets here have been unsettled by the turmoil on the other side of the Atlantic as investors worry that European banks continue to have exposure to bad American mortgage debt.
 But Europe's broader economy is demonstrating startling resilience -- not just to the high anxiety in the markets but to the swift rise of the euro, which, in theory anyway, burdens European exporters.
 In Germany, a bellwether survey of 7,000 business people by the Ifo Institute for Economic Research found that sentiment improved in March for the third consecutive month. Exporters said they were more sanguine about their prospects, even after a month in which the euro skirted $1.60.
 ''We were surprised because there has been all this talk about the financial crisis and how it would affect Germany,'' said Klaus Abberger, a senior economist at the Ifo Institute in Munich. ''We had a surge in the euro, and yet the firms assessed their export situation as being very good.''
 In France, the Insee survey of sentiment among manufacturers rose unexpectedly in March, as did the Belgian BNB monthly survey. Only Italy reported bad news: the ISAE index of business confidence fell in March, to its lowest levels in two years, largely because of a decline in orders.
 Natacha Valla, an economist at Goldman Sachs in Paris, said the French survey indicated that French companies -- not just German ones -- were still competitive in the face of a buoyant currency.
 These hopeful signs are likely to fortify the European Central Bank in its refusal to follow the recent rate cuts of the Federal Reserve. The bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said on Wednesday that cutting rates in response to the financial crisis would only stoke inflation.
 ''The current monetary policy stance will contribute to achieving our price-stability objective,'' Mr. Trichet said at the European Parliament in Brussels, taking note of the optimism in Germany.
 Mr. Trichet's hawkish comments, economists said, suggest the European Central Bank will leave rates unchanged even beyond June, when many bank watchers had predicted it would join the Fed in relaxing policy. 
 The Bank of England echoed the European Central Bank in its reluctance to adopt emergency measures. In testimony before lawmakers in London, the bank's governor, Mervyn A. King, warned about inflation, too, and said his bank wanted a ''longer term'' solution to the crisis.
 While both central bankers tried to project a cool demeanor, Mr. Trichet compared the current turmoil to the oil shock of the 1970s and the Asian financial crisis. The Asian crisis, he said, provided lessons for how to respond to this disruption, chiefly the need for greater transparency.
 German businesspeople may be optimistic, but its bankers remain a fragile lot. Deutsche Bank warned that further write-downs of assets, and the deterioration of the broader economy, meant that it could fall short of its target of pretax profits of 8.4 billion euros ($13.1 billion) in 2008.
 Deutsche Bank's chief executive, Josef Ackermann, recently stirred up a tempest when he called for state intervention to restore calm to the markets, saying he had lost faith in their ''self-healing'' power. He later said he was referring only to the American mortgage market.
 The European Commission is also nervous about the broader economic fallout of the crisis. In a report issued Wednesday, it said Europe faced increased head winds because of the market turmoil, a weaker American economy, high oil prices and the rise of the euro against the dollar.
 Europe's growth declined to an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007, from 2.6 percent in the third quarter. Growth in exports dropped to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter, from 2.1 percent in the previous quarter. Yet the commission still projects that exports will grow 5.3 percent in 2008, only modestly below their 5.8 percent growth rate last year.
 ''Europe's resilience has improved, thanks to structural reforms over the last decade,'' Klaus P. Regling, the director-general of economic and financial affairs for the commission, said in a roundtable interview.
 Mr. Regling discounted the once-popular theory that Europe had decoupled from the United States. But he said several factors were cushioning it from a trans-Atlantic shock -- not least the euro itself, which he said gives its 15 member states more stability in dealing with the crisis.
 ''The vulnerability of Europe is less than it used to be,'' said Mr. Regling, a German economist, ''and therefore, we are optimistic that we can weather the problems better than in the past.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



678 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Ford Reaches Deal to Sell Land Rover and Jaguar

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and NICK BUNKLEY; Heather Timmons reported from New Delhi and Nick Bunkley from Detroit.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
Tata Motors, part of India's fast-growing Tata Group, is buying Jaguar and Land Rover from the Ford Motor Company for $2.3 billion -- about half what Ford paid for the brands when it bought them. 
 The long-awaited deal, which was announced Wednesday, also carries a painful payout for Ford after it closes. Ford will give Tata an additional $600 million to make up for shortfalls in pension plans when the deal is done, expected in the middle of this year. 
 The Tata Group, one of India's largest conglomerates, has been on an overseas acquisition spree in recent years, buying up everything from tea and coffee companies to steel manufacturers. Other Indian companies are also looking at overseas acquisitions as a weak dollar coupled with strong domestic growth make international takeovers attractive, particularly in the United States. 
 A weak dollar was the precursor to Ford's ownership of Jaguar, too -- Ford started buying up stakes in the British car brand in 1989 after sales in the United States fell. Ford beat General Motors for the whole company, paying $2.38 billion at the end of 1989, and it announced plans to double or triple Jaguar's sales volume.
 Ford, however, ended up cutting jobs and production instead, as the British and United States economies drifted into recession and the luxury car market slumped. 
 While Ford made improvements at Jaguar, sales have still been weaker than hoped, analysts said. Ford made ''huge progress in terms of quality and manufacturing technology, but these have not proved to be enough,'' said Andrew Wright, an analyst with CSM Worldwide, an auto industry research company. Competition in the luxury car market has also been fierce in recent years. At the same time that Ford was investing in Jaguar, BMW was investing a ''significantly higher'' amount in its own brand, Mr. Wright said. 
 While most analysts and car enthusiasts are focusing on the transfer of the Jaguar name, Land Rover may actually hold more appeal and opportunity for Tata. Analysts say that Land Rover has turned a profit in recent years, which has been diminished by Jaguar's losses. Tata already builds luxury sport utility vehicles of its own in India.
 Ford bought Land Rover from BMW in 2000 for just less than $3 billion after BMW failed to make the brand profitable.
 The presence of Jaguar and Land Rover in Tata's portfolio creates a marked contrast with the product that made Tata an international sensation this year: the tiny Nano, a bare-bones hatchback that sells for about $2,500. As a result, some consumers may wonder how a company that builds the world's cheapest car can operate luxury automakers at the same time.
 And if sales of Jaguar and Land Rover were disappointing under the guidance of a century-old American carmaker, will consumers be any more open to buying from a relatively unknown Indian company? Some car shoppers may hesitate, as they did decades ago when Japanese automakers known for small, fuel-efficient offerings began to build luxury sedans. But most consumers will not even be aware of Tata's presence, said Wes Brown, a partner in the Los Angeles-based automotive marketing firm Iceology.
 ''Unless you're an enthusiast, you don't know who owns the car companies,'' Mr. Brown said. ''As long as the cars look good and work well, people aren't going to care.''
 Jesse Toprak, the executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers, said he did not expect much to change at Jaguar and Land Rover. Most vehicles will stay the same until at least 2011, after which Tata's fingerprints may become evident on new models.
 ''The reality is that the headquarters will be kept in England and most cars will be manufactured where they are now,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''What will really determine their long-term success is the new generation of products that will come out of the new ownership. They need to come out with a very impressive lineup of new vehicles right off the bat.''
 When Tata makes deals, it rarely changes the character of the company that it buys over the near term. Ratan Tata, the chairman of Tata Sons, which controls units of the Tata Group, including Tata Motors, reiterated that strategy Wednesday, saying the Tata Group ''will endeavor to preserve and build on their heritage and competitiveness'' of the two brands, while ''keeping their identities intact.''
 No changes are expected to employment terms for Jaguar and Land Rover's approximately 16,000 workers. 
 Building Jaguars in India is unlikely, analysts said, but there is a lot of room for sales to grow in emerging markets, where the number of affluent consumers has been increasing quickly. A third of Jaguar buyers are British, Mr. Wright of CSM said. ''I don't think you can build Jags in India and retain the customer base,'' he said. 
 Ford is in the midst of a painful overhaul, shedding costly units and workers in the United States. The chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said in a statement that he was confident that Jaguar and Land Rover would thrive under their new owners. ''Now, it is time,'' he said, ''for Ford to concentrate on integrating the Ford brand globally, as we implement our plan to create a strong Ford Motor Company that delivers profitable growth for all.'' 
 Ford has lost $15 billion over the last two years. 
 Ford will continue to provide some components, including powertrains, to Jaguar and Land Rover, which are built in Britain, as well as some research and development support. Ford's finance arm, Ford Motor Credit, will continue to provide financing to Jaguar and Land Rover dealers and customers for up to 12 months. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ford will continue to provide some components, including power trains, to Jaguars and Land Rovers after the sale closes. This dealership in Utica, Mich., will receive financing for a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)
 Ratan Tata, Tata's chairman, has been buying overseas companies in recent years and rarely changing their character. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS BALIBOUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); TATA MOTORS LTD (92%); TATA GROUP (85%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); TTMT (LSE) (92%); TTM (NYSE) (92%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (92%); BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



679 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Hussein Spy Agency and Iraqi-American Arranged '02 Trip by Lawmakers

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Justice Department said Wednesday that Saddam Hussein's principal foreign intelligence agency and an Iraqi-American man had organized and paid for a 2002 visit to Iraq by three House Democrats whose trip was harshly criticized by colleagues at the time. 
 The arrangements for the trip were described in the indictment of an Iraq-born former employee of a Detroit-area charity group who was charged Wednesday with accepting millions of dollars' worth of Iraqi oil contracts in exchange for assisting the Iraqi spy agency in projects in the United States.
 The indictment did not claim any wrongdoing by the three lawmakers, whose five-day trip to Iraq occurred in October 2002, five months before the American invasion. 
 Two continue to serve in the House: Jim McDermott of Washington State and Mike Thompson of California. The other, David E. Bonior of Michigan, has since retired from Congress.
 ''None of the Congressional representatives are accused of any wrongdoing, and we have no information whatsoever that any of them were aware of the involvement of the Iraqi Intelligence Service,'' said Dean Boyd, a Justice spokesman.
 Mr. McDermott said through a spokesman that he had been invited on the trip by church groups in his home state and that he assumed that the trip had been paid for by legitimate charitable organizations. 
 Mr. Thompson said in a statement that the trip was approved by the State Department and that ''obviously, had there been any question at all regarding the sponsor of the trip or the funding, I would not have participated.''
 The three-man Congressional delegation was criticized on its return to Washington as having undermined the Bush administration's campaign to gather international support to disarm and later invade Iraq. 
 The indictment, which was dated Feb. 13 and unsealed Monday in Michigan, said the trip had cost at least $34,000.
 The indicted Michigan man, Muthanna al-Hanooti, was identified in court papers as a naturalized American citizen who worked for much of the 1990s and again in 2001 and 2002 as public relations coordinator for Life for Relief and Development, a Michigan-based charity. He pleaded not guilty on Wednesday.
 The group's Web site says it was founded in 1992 by Iraqi-American professionals who wanted to help people in Iraq after the Persian Gulf war a year earlier. A man answering the phone at its headquarters on Wednesday afternoon, who identified himself only as Sam, said he had no comment on the charges. Mr. Hanooti is reported to have left the group in mid-2006.
 Mr. Hanooti is suspected of having gone to work for the Iraqis in 1999 or 2000, specifically by publicizing efforts in the United States to lift international economic sanctions on Iraq. As part of that effort, the indictment said, he organized the October 2002 visit and accompanied the three lawmakers to Iraq. 
 In December 2002, the indictment said, the Iraqi government secretly arranged to allocate two million barrels of oil to Mr. Hanooti; he then turned over the rights to the oil to a company incorporated in Cyprus for an amount of money that was not identified in the court papers.
 The charges against Mr. Hanooti, who was released from custody on Wednesday after posting $100,000 bail and agreeing to wear an electronic ankle bracelet, include conspiracy, making false statements and criminal violations of the American embargo on Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CHARITIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); RELIGION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JIM MCDERMOTT (72%); MIKE THOMPSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



680 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: McCain, in Foreign Policy Talk, Turns His Back on Unilateralism

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington, and Dalia Sussman and Megan Thee from New York.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In a wide-ranging speech on foreign policy, Senator John McCain sought Wednesday to distance himself from the unilateralism that has been a hallmark of the Bush administration, saying Americans must, in the words of the Declaration of Independence, show ''decent respect to the opinions of mankind.''
 ''We cannot build an enduring peace based on freedom by ourselves, and we do not want to,'' Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, said in remarks here to the Los Angeles World Affairs Council. ''We have to strengthen our global alliances as the core of a new global compact.'' 
 The speech, the most extended exposition of foreign policy views and principles the senator has delivered during the campaign, was an apparent effort to draw attention to his positions on topics other than his oft-repeated insistence that the nation stay the course in Iraq. He touched on nuclear proliferation, global warming, free trade and fighting AIDS in Africa.
 But, turning directly to the war toward the end of his remarks, he said a precipitous withdrawal ''would be an unconscionable act of betrayal, a stain on our character as a great nation.'' He called for the United States to maintain a presence in Iraq until it could be transformed into a ''peaceful, stable, democratic'' state.
 The campaign of Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, immediately responded by saying in a statement, ''John McCain is determined to carry out four more years of George Bush's failed policies, including an open-ended war in Iraq that has cost us thousands of lives and billions of dollars while making us less safe.''
 Mr. Obama's rival for the Democratic nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, said without being specific that ''there is much to praise in Senator McCain's speech.'' 
 But Mrs. Clinton also said that she and Mr. McCain ''continue to have a fundamental disagreement on Iraq,'' because ''like President Bush, Senator McCain continues to oppose a swift and responsible withdrawal from Iraq'' and ''discounts the warnings of our senior military leadership of the consequences of the Iraq war on the readiness of our armed forces.''
 Mr. McCain is not only fighting his prospective election opponents on the issue but also swimming against the tide of public opinion. According to a CBS News poll conducted last week, 6 in 10 Americans think the United States should have stayed out of Iraq, and a majority say that things are going badly there and that they do not believe the United States is safer from terrorism as a result of the war.
 Mr. McCain acknowledged the political import of such opinion last month, blurting out to reporters on his campaign bus that if he could not convince the American people that the war was a worthy cause, ''I lose.''
 The speech Wednesday followed Mr. McCain's return from travels this month to the Middle East and Europe. During that journey, he visited Iraq and also met with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, both of whom he has praised since returning to the campaign trail as potential diplomatic partners.
 His remarks here included long passages that appeared intended to reassure allies in Europe and elsewhere that despite his tough stance on Iraq, he welcomed and would practice what one of his foreign policy advisers later called ''robust diplomacy.'' The speech also had elements that seemed to urge Democrats and independents, dubious about his stay-the-course position on Iraq, to look beyond it and examine other planks in his foreign policy platform.
 Mr. McCain did not refer to the Bush administration by name. But he explicitly criticized policies that the administration has followed in the Middle East, like a ''strategy of relying on autocrats,'' including those in Saudi Arabia, ''to provide order and stability'' and the go-it-alone approach that has been applied to issues as varied as global warming and the invasion of Iraq five years ago this month. 
 ''The United States cannot lead by virtue of its power alone,'' Mr. McCain said. ''We must be strong politically, economically and militarily. But we must also lead by attracting others to our cause, by demonstrating once again the virtues of freedom and democracy, by defending the rules of international civilized society and by creating the new international institutions necessary.'' 
 By contrast, on relations with what he called ''a revanchist Russia'' intent on regaining lost prestige and territory, he took a much tougher stance than Mr. Bush, who once said he considered President Vladimir V. Putin ''very straightforward and trustworthy'' after he ''looked the man in the eye'' during their first meeting. Mr. McCain instead complained of Russia's ''nuclear blackmail and cyberattacks'' on its neighbors and recommended that the Russians be expelled from membership in the Group of 8, made up of the world's largest free-market democracies, and replaced by India and Brazil. 
 Mr. McCain never mentioned Mr. Bush. Indeed, the only two presidents to whom he referred by name, both in a favorable context, were Democrats: Harry S. Truman and John F. Kennedy. And one day after he was endorsed by Nancy Reagan, he even issued an implied admonition to some of Ronald Reagan's more enthusiastic partisans, saying that ''the United States did not single-handedly win the cold war; the trans-Atlantic alliance did, in concert with partners around the world.'' 
 In a conference call with reporters after the speech, Mr. McCain's senior foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann, declined to say whether the candidate's remarks were meant specifically to separate him from the unilateralist policies of the Bush administration that have proved unpopular both abroad and, increasingly, among Americans.
 ''I'll leave that to you,'' Mr. Scheunemann said, referring to reporters and, as he later made clear, voters. 
 But he did say that if elected, Mr. McCain would pursue ''collaborative relations'' with the rest of the world. 
 And another adviser, Richard S. Williamson, an assistant secretary of state under Mr. Bush's father and a former representative to several United Nations bodies, said Mr. McCain recognized that in relations with allies, there was a ''need to exchange views, not just bludgeon people with our own views.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain warned against precipitous withdrawal from Iraq. But he also said, ''We cannot build an enduring peace based on freedom by ourselves, and we do not want to.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); AIDS & HIV (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



681 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Europe and U.S. Press China Over Tibet

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Katrin Bennhold from Paris. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 -- European leaders sharpened their tone over Tibet on Wednesday, as President Bush telephoned President Hu Jintao of China and urged a resumption of negotiations with the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader.
 Even as Chinese diplomats sought to defend the crackdown on protesters in Tibet, officials said they were considering sending a fact-finding mission to Beijing, signaling an intensification of international concern over the violent repression in the region. 
 In London, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France told a joint session of the House of Commons and the House of Lords during a state visit that Britain and France shared a responsibility to urge the Chinese leadership to respect human rights and cultural identity. 
 That goal could only be achieved if there was ''true dialogue'' between China and the Dalai Lama, he said, a day after hinting that France might boycott the opening ceremonies of the Olympics in Beijing this summer.
 French diplomats said they were in talks with other European capitals about dispatching a European Union delegation to China. France, which will take over the European Union's presidency in July, will seek agreement on the issue during an informal foreign ministers' meeting at the end of this week, said an official with knowledge of the draft proposal who would only speak on the condition of anonymity before the meeting. 
 In Washington, the Bush administration made its most extensive remarks on the turmoil after facing criticism that the president's response had been fairly muted. Mr. Bush has already ruled out an Olympics boycott, which some have called for, indicating that he hoped to maintain a constructive relationship with the Chinese leadership.
 In a statement, the White House said that Mr. Bush, in his telephone conversation with Mr. Hu, had urged that diplomats and journalists be allowed access to the region.
 The statement noted that the two had discussed Tibet as part of a conversation that included Taiwan's recent elections, negotiations with North Korea about its nuclear programs and the situation in Myanmar.
 Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, later said that the president had ''pushed very hard'' on Tibet, urging restraint and a renewed effort to address Tibetan grievances. Neither the statement nor Mr. Hadley explicitly criticized China's government.
 ''There's an opportunity here,'' Mr. Hadley said, referring to the possibility of renewed talks with the Dalai Lama's representatives, ''and China needs to seize it.''
 China reacted swiftly to the international criticism, comparing its handling of Tibetan protesters to a recent French police raid after rioting in Villiers-le-Bel, a volatile Paris suburb. 
 When asked whether China would accept an international fact-finding mission, China's deputy ambassador in Paris, Qu Xing, told the French radio station Europe 1, ''Would you allow a United Nations mission to see what happened in Villiers-le-Bel?'' 
 The prospect of the Olympics being held against a backdrop of Chinese military action in Tibet has forced European leaders to walk a narrow line between maintaining their increasingly important economic and political ties to China while protests among their own people against China's actions in Tibet intensify and calls from leading figures in Europe's former communist east grow louder.
 The French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, acknowledged the importance of those ties in an interview on Wednesday in the newspaper Liberation, saying, ''We are constrained by a certain number of economic interests in order not to boost unemployment.'' 
 Under pressure from the news media and human rights groups, more leaders are now considering defying China and meeting the Dalai Lama, and while none have supported an outright boycott of the Olympic Games in August, the possibility of not attending the opening ceremony is no longer ruled out. 
 The president of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Pottering, on Wednesday invited the Dalai Lama to speak to European Union legislators and questioned whether European leaders should attend the opening. 
 Following the lead of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who met with the Dalai Lama last fall, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain announced last week that he would meet with the Dalai Lama when the spiritual leader visits London in May. 
 Mr. Sarkozy hinted Wednesday that he might do the same, saying through a spokesman that he would decide based on how the situation in Tibet evolved. 
 An appeal signed by former anti-Communist campaigners like Vaclav Havel, who as Czech president also received the Dalai Lama, called for the Chinese leadership to lift restrictions on foreign journalists, release political prisoners and begin a dialogue with Tibet's exiled leader. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); RIOTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DALAI LAMA (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (98%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



682 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: State Moves Toward Deal On a Budget

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS; Trymaine Lee contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
With five days until the deadline for enacting a state budget, Gov. David A. Paterson's support of congestion pricing has revived hopes for it in the capital, while Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's proposal to increase taxes on people making $1 million or more remains on the table. 
 But lawmakers' expectations of a pay increase are fading, along with the state's tax revenues. 
 Those budget developments suggest that Mr. Paterson and legislative leaders are taking steps, however small, to put state government back on track. Since Eliot Spitzer announced his resignation two weeks ago, Albany has been consumed by controversy, some of it created by the new governor himself, who introduced himself to New Yorkers by talking publicly about a series of extramarital affairs and his use of illegal drugs in his 20s. 
 Given that the governor and his administration are new in the job, it remains unlikely that they can reach a deal by the budget deadline. But Mr. Paterson, who spent more than two decades in the State Senate and has taken a conciliatory approach with legislative leaders, is widely seen as being more adept than his combative predecessor at completing a budget deal. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Paterson and his staff appear determined to show that he can play tough by holding the line on spending. Hanging over the negotiations is a projected $4.6 billion shortfall that will grow if tax revenues continue to decline, as anticipated. Mr. Paterson has already announced $800 million in cuts, on his first full day in office last week. 
 ''We are in a recession,'' Mr. Paterson said during an appearance on Wednesday.
 ''The last thing I ever would've wanted to do is to have my first act as governor cutting $800 million of our state budget,'' he added. ''I don't want to do that. I used to advocate for some of the same programs that I actually just cut, but it had to be done.''
 Given the deepening fiscal problems, luxury items like a pay raise for lawmakers, which seemed possible a couple months ago, have become unlikely, people involved in the negotiations said. Mr. Paterson said as much Wednesday. 
 ''I don't think the state can really afford to do very much for anyone, least of all legislators right now, in this situation,'' he said. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan, which would charge drivers a fee to drive into the busiest parts of Manhattan has the benefit of Mr. Paterson's support, and the solid backing of the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the state's top Republican. Mr. Bloomberg is the largest individual donor to Senate Republicans.
 Still, the prospects for the plan in the Legislature were far from settled on Wednesday, and its fate will largely depend on Mr. Silver. For instance, Mr. Silver could agree not to block the plan in exchange for some version of the new tax on anyone making more than $1 million. 
 In Albany, where power is highly centralized in the legislative leaders, Mr. Silver holds tremendous sway over the outcome of the plan. He cannot ignore the discontent of his members, many of whom say the plan will unfairly burden commuters from Brooklyn and Queens. Mr. Silver's mere mention of the plan during a meeting of Democratic Assembly members on Wednesday drew groans and booing, according to people who attended the meeting. 
 Mr. Silver will introduce the plan in the coming days as a courtesy to the new governor, a fellow Democrat, legislators said. It may not be lumped together with the budget itself -- legislators said there seemed to be an emerging consensus among Assembly Democrats that it should be voted on as a separate measure.
 Many legislators said they doubted that the plan would pass if it came to a vote now. 
 ''It does not have the votes in this house at this time,'' said J. Gary Pretlow, a Democratic assemblyman who represents Yonkers and Mount Vernon. ''There are still too many questions.''
 Even the plan's supporters in the Assembly were not brimming with confidence. ''I think it's fair to say it's challenging at this point,'' said Brian P. Kavanagh, a Democratic assemblyman who represents the East Side of Manhattan. ''Obviously, there's a lot more work that we need to do, both to make the plan more amenable to members of this house and to give people confidence that it's going to improve mass transit in the way that it's intended to.'' 
 The New York City Council will also need to approve the plan, but the Council, which met on Wednesday, has not scheduled a vote. 
 The Bloomberg administration has also been pushing for the restoration of promised increases in education funds made by Mr. Spitzer, an issue that is said to be linked to the tax on the wealthy in the negotiations. 
 A consortium of public policy groups began airing a radio commercial statewide on Wednesday urging support for the plan to raise income taxes on New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year. ''Middle-class families are getting squeezed. Meanwhile, the rich are getting richer,'' the commercial says. ''The wealthiest New Yorkers just aren't paying their fair share.'' 
 Recent public opinion polls have shown that voters support the tax increase plan by wide margins. A Quinnipiac University poll released this week found 77 percent in favor and 19 percent opposed. A Siena Research Institute poll conducted last week found similar levels of support.
 But business groups and Republican lawmakers have strongly objected to the idea and said New York, which already has a high tax burden, should not risk driving wealthy residents out of the state.
 ''New York cannot tax its way out of its current budget problems,'' said Kenneth Adams, the president of the Business Council of New York State, in a recent statement.
 Mr. Bruno's spokesman, John E. McArdle, said, ''We have been very clear that raising taxes at this point is the worst thing that can be done.''
 Mr. Paterson, however, has shown an ability in the past to put deals together. 
 Describing his approach, he said he had personally met individually with all of the legislative leaders, including the minority leaders. 
 ''When you talk to a group of people and you tell them about a problem, everyone intellectually understands the problem, but they think you are addressing your concerns to the others in the room,'' he said. ''I wanted to look at every leader, eyeball to eyeball, and tell them what I need from them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson at a news conference in Schenectady on Wednesday with Mayor Brian U. Stratton of Schenectady. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



683 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4765 words

HEADLINE: Obama on 'Renewing the American Economy'

 BODY:
Following is the transcript of Barack Obama's economic speech at Cooper Union in New York, as provided by CQ Transcriptions Inc. 
 Thank you so much for being here. 
 Let me begin by thanking Dr. Drucker and Cooper Union for hosting us here today. I have to say that the last time an Illinois politician made a speech here it was pretty good. So... 
 (LAUGHTER)
 ... the bar is high. And I -- I want everybody to know right at the outset here that this may not be living for generations to come, the way Lincoln's speech did. I want to thank all our elected supporters who are here. I want to -- there are a couple of special guests that I'm very appreciative for being in attendance: Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve Board... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 We appreciate his presence. William Donaldson, the former chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We thank you. And finally I want to thank the mayor of this great city, mayor Bloomberg, for his extraordinary leadership. At a time... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 At a time when Washington is divided in old ideological battles, he shows us what can be achieved when we bring people together to seek pragmatic solutions. Not only has he been a remarkable leader for New York, he's established himself as a major voice in our national debate on issues like renewing our economy, educating our children and seeking energy independence. So, Mr. Mayor, I share your determination to bring this country together, to finally make progress for the American people. And I have to tell you that the reason I bought breakfast is because I expect payback at something more expensive. 
 (LAUGHTER)
 I -- the mayor -- I'm no dummy. 
 (LAUGHTER)
 The mayor was a cheap date that morning... 
 (LAUGHTER)
 ... and I figured there's some good steakhouses here in New York. 
 (LAUGHTER)
 In a city of landmarks, we meet at Cooper Union, just uptown from Federal Hall, where George Washington took the oath of office as the first president of the United States. With all history that's passed through the narrow canyons of Lower Manhattan, it's worth taking a moment to reflect on the role that the market has played in the development of the American story. The great task before our founders was putting into practice the ideal that government could simultaneously serve liberty and advance the common good. For Alexander Hamilton, the young secretary of the treasury, that task was bound to the vigor of the American economy. Hamilton had a strong belief in the power of the market, but he balanced that belief with a conviction that human enterprise, and I quote, ''may be beneficially stimulated by prudent aids and encouragements on the part of the government.'' Government, he believed, had an important role to play in advancing our common prosperity. So he nationalized the state Revolutionary War debts, weaving together the economies of the states and creating an American system of credit and capital markets. And he encouraged manufacturing and infrastructure, so products could be moved to market. Hamilton met fierce opposition from Thomas Jefferson, who worried that this brand of capitalism would favor the interests of the few over the many. Jefferson preferred an agrarian economy, because he believed that it would give individual landowners freedom and that this freedom would nurture our democratic institutions. But despite their differences, there was one thing that Jefferson and Hamilton agreed on: that economic growth depended upon the talent and ingenuity of the American people; that in order to harness that talent, opportunity had to remain open to all; and that through education in particular, every American could climb the ladder of social and economic mobility and achieve the American dream. In the more than two centuries since then, we've struggled to balance the same forces that confronted Hamilton and Jefferson.: self-interest and community, markets and democracy, the concentration of wealth and power and the necessity of transparency and opportunity for each and every citizen. Throughout this saga, Americans have pursued their dreams within a free market that has been the engine of America's progress. It's a market that's created a prosperity that is the envy of the world, and opportunity for generations of Americans; a market that has provided great rewards to innovators and risk-takers who've made America a beacon for science and technology and discovery. 
 But the American experiment has worked in large part because we guided the market's invisible hand with a higher principle. A free market was never meant to be a free license to take whatever you can get, however you can get it. That's why we've put in place rules of the road: to make competition fair and open, and honest. We've done this not to stifle but rather to advance prosperity and liberty. As I said at Nasdaq last September, the core of our economic success is the fundamental truth that each American does better when all Americans do better; that the well-being of American business (OOTC:ARBU) , its capital markets and its American people are aligned. I think that all of us here today would acknowledge that we've lost some of that sense of shared prosperity. Now, this loss has not happened by accident. It's because of decisions made in board rooms, on trading floors and in Washington. Under Republican and Democratic administrations, we've failed to guard against practices that all too often rewarded financial manipulation instead of productivity and sound business practice. We let the special interests put their thumbs on the economic scales. The result has been a distorted market that creates bubbles instead of steady, sustainable growth; a market that favors Wall Street over Main Street, but ends up hurting both. Nor is this trend new. The concentrations of economic power and the failures of our political system to protect the American economy and American consumers from its worst excesses have been a staple of our past: most famously in the 1920s, when such excesses ultimately plunged the country into the Great Depression. That is when government stepped in to create a series of regulatory structures, from FDIC to the Glass-Steagall Act, to serve as a corrective, to protect the American people and American business. 
 Ironically, it was in reaction to the high taxes and some of the outmoded structures of the New Deal that both individuals and institutions in the '80s and '90s began pushing for changes to this regulatory structure. But instead of sensible reform that rewarded success and freed the creative forces of the market, too often we've excused and even embraced an ethic of greed, corner cutting, insider dealing, things that have always threatened the long-term stability of our economic system. Too often we've lost that common stake in each other's prosperity. Now, let me be clear. The American economy does not stand still and neither should the rules that govern it. The evolution of industries often warrants regulatory reform to foster competition, lower prices or replace outdated oversight structures. Old institutions cannot adequately oversee new practices. Old rules may not fit the roads where our economy is leading. So there were good arguments for changing the rules of the road in the 1990s. Our economy was undergoing a fundamental shift, carried along by the swift currents of technological change and globalization. For the sake of our common prosperity, we needed to adapt to keep markets competitive and fair. Unfortunately, instead of establishing a 21st century regulatory framework, we simply dismantled the old one, aided by a legal but corrupt bargain in which campaign money all too often shaped policy and watered down oversight. In doing so we encouraged a winner take all, anything goes environment that helped foster devastating dislocations in our economy. Deregulation of the telecommunications sector, for example, fostered competition, but also contributed to massive over-investment. 
 Partial deregulation of the electricity sector enabled (inaudible). Companies like Enron and WorldCom took advantage of the new regulatory environment to push the envelope, pump up earnings, disguise losses and otherwise engage in accounting fraud to make their profits look better, a practice that led investors to question the balance sheets of all companies and severely damaged public trust in capital markets. This was not the invisible hand at work. Instead, it was the hand of industry lobbyists tilting the playing field in Washington as well as an accounting industry that had developed powerful conflicts of interest and a financial sector that had fueled over-investment. A decade later we have deregulated the financial sector and we face another crisis. A regulatory structure set up for banks in the 1930s needed to change, because the nature of business had changed. But by the time the Glass-Steagall Act was repealed in 1999, the $300 million lobbying effort that drove deregulation was more about facilitating mergers than creating an efficient regulatory framework. And since then we've overseen 21st century innovation, including the aggressive introduction of new and complex financial instruments like hedge funds and non-bank financial companies, with outdated 20th century regulatory tools. New conflicts of interest recalled the worst excesses of the past, like the outrageous news that we learned just yesterday of KPMG allowing a lender to report profits instead of losses so that both parties could make a quick buck. Not surprisingly, the regulatory environment failed to keep pace. When subprime mortgage lending took a reckless and unsustainable turn, a patchwork of regulators were unable or unwilling to protect the American people. Now, the policies of the Bush administration threw the economy further out of balance. Tax cuts without end for the wealthiest Americans. A trillion dollar war in Iraq that didn't need to be fought, paid for with deficit spending and borrowing from foreign creditors like China. A complete... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 A complete disdain for pay-as-you-go budgeting, coupled with a generally scornful attitude toward oversight and enforcement, allowed far too many to put short-term gain ahead of long-term consequences. The American economy was bound to suffer a painful correction, and policy-makers found themselves with fewer resources to deal with the consequences. Today those consequences are clear. I see them in every corner of our great country as families face foreclosure and rising costs. I see them in towns across America, where a credit crisis threatens the ability of students to get loans and states can't finance infrastructure projects. I see them here in Manhattan, where one of our biggest investment banks had to be bailed out and the Fed opened its discount window to a host of new institutions with unprecedented implications that we have yet to appreciate. When all is said and done, losses will be in the many hundreds of billions. What was bad for Main Street turned out to be bad for Wall Street. Pain trickled up. And that... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 ... and that's why -- that's why the principle that I spoke about at NASDAQ last September is even more urgently true today. In our 21st century economy, there is no dividing line between Main Street and Wall Street. 
 The decisions made in New York's high rises have consequences for Americans across the country. And whether those Americans can make their house payments, whether they keep their jobs or spend confidentially without falling into debt, that has consequences for the entire market. The future cannot be shaped by the best-connected lobbyists with the best record of raising money for campaigns. This... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 This thinking is wrong for the financial sector and it's wrong for our country. I do not believe the government should stand in the way of innovation or turn back the clock on an older era of regulation. But I do believe that government has a role to play in advancing our common prosperity, by providing stable macroeconomic and financial conditions for sustained growth, by demanding transparency and by ensuring fair competition in the marketplace. Our history should give us confidence that we don't have to choose between an oppressive government-run economy and a chaotic, unforgiving capitalism. It tells us we can emerge from great economic upheavals stronger, not weaker. But we can only do so if we restore confidence in our markets, only if we rebuild trust between investors and lenders, and only if we renew that common interest between Wall Street and Main street that is the key to our long-term success. Now, as most experts agree, our economy is in a recession. To renew our economy and to ensure that we are not doomed to repeat a cycle of bubble and bust again and again and again, we need to address not only the immediate crisis in the housing market, we also need to create a 21st-century regulatory framework and we need to pursue a bold opportunity agenda for the American people. 
 Most urgently, we have to confront the housing crisis. After months of inaction, the president spoke here in New York and warned against doing too much. His main proposal, extending tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, is completely divorced from reality, the reality that people are facing around the country. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 John McCain recently announced his own plan. And, unfortunately, it amounts to little more than watching this crisis unfold. 
 (LAUGHTER)
 While this is consistent with Senator McCain's determination to run for George Bush's third term... 
 (LAUGHTER)
 (APPLAUSE)
 ... it won't help families that are suffering and it won't help lift our economy out of recession. Over 2 million households are at risk of foreclosure. Millions more have seen their home values plunge. Many Americans are walking away from their homes, which hurts property values for entire neighborhoods and aggravates the credit crisis. To stabilize the housing market and to help bring the foreclosure crisis to an end, I've sponsored Senator Chris Dodd's legislation creating a new FHA housing security program, which will provide meaningful incentives for lenders to buy or refinance existing mortgages. This will allow Americans facing foreclosure to keep their homes at rates that they can afford. Now, Senator McCain argues that government should do nothing to protect borrowers and lenders who've made bad decisions or taken on excessive risk. 
 And on this point I agree. But the Dodd-Frank package is not a bailout for lenders or investors who gambled recklessly; they will take their losses. It's not a windfall for borrowers, as they will have to share any capital gain. Instead, it offers a responsible and fair way to help bring an end to the foreclosure crisis. It asks both sides to sacrifice, while preventing a long-term collapse that could have enormous ramifications for the most responsible lenders and borrowers, as well as the American people as a whole. That's what Senator McCain ignores. For homeowners who are victims of fraud, I've also proposed a $10 billion foreclosure prevention fund that would help them sell a home that is beyond their means or modify their loan to avoid foreclosure or bankruptcy. It's also time to amend our bankruptcy laws so families aren't forced to stick to the terms of a home loan that was predatory or unfair. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 To prevent fraud in the future, I've proposed tough new penalties on fraudulent lenders and a home-score system that will allow consumers to find out more about mortgage offers and whether they'll be able to make payments. To help low- and middle-income families, I proposed a 10 percent mortgage interest tax credit that will allow homeowners who don't itemize their taxes to access incentives for homeownership. And to expand homeownership, we must do more to help communities turn abandoned properties into affordable housing. The government can't do this alone, nor should it. As I said last September, lenders must get ahead of the curve rather than just react to the crisis. They should actively look at all borrowers, offer workouts and reduce the principal on mortgages in trouble. Not only can this prevent the larger losses associated with foreclosure and resale, but it can reduce the extent of government intervention and taxpayer exposure. But beyond dealing with the immediate housing crisis, it is time for the federal government to revamp the regulatory framework dealing with our financial markets. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 Our capital markets have helped us build the strongest economy in the world. They are the source of competitive advantage for our country. 
 But they cannot succeed without the public's trust. The details of regulatory reform should be developed through sound analysis and public debate. And so I won't try to cross every ''t'' and dot every ''i'' in this speech. But there are several core principles for reform that I intend to pursue as president. First, if you can borrow from the government, you should be subject to government oversight and supervision. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 Secretary Paulson admitted this in his remarks yesterday. The Federal Reserve should have basic supervisory authority over any institution to which it may make credit available as a lender of last resort. When the Fed steps in, it is providing lenders an insurance policy underwritten by the American taxpayer. In return, taxpayers have every right to expect that these institutions are not taking excessive risks. Now, the nature of regulation should depend on the degree and extent of the Fed's exposure. But, at the very least, these new regulations should include liquidity and capital requirements. Second, there needs to be general reform of the requirements to which all regulated financial institutions are subjected. Capital requirements should be strengthened, particularly for complex financial instruments like some of the mortgage securities that led to our current crisis. We must develop and rigorously manage liquidity risks. We must investigate ratings agencies and potential conflicts of interest with the people that they are rating. And transparency requirements must demand full disclosure by financial institutions to shareholders and counter parties. As we reform our regulatory system at home, we should work with international arrangements, like the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the International Accounting Standards Board, and the Financial Stability Forum, to address the same problems abroad. 
 The goal should be to ensure that financial institutions around the world are subject to similar rules of the road, both to make the system more stable and to keep our financial institutions competitive. Third, we need to streamline a framework of overlapping and competing regulatory agencies. Reshuffling bureaucracies should not be an end in itself. But the large, complex institutions that dominate the financial landscape don't fit into categories created decades ago. Different institutions compete in multiple markets. Our regulatory system should not pretend otherwise. A streamlined system will provide better oversight and be less costly for regulated institutions. Fourth, we need to regulate institutions for what they do, not what they are. Over the last few years, commercial banks and thrift institutions were subject to guidelines on subprime mortgages that did not apply to mortgage brokers and companies. Now, it makes no sense for the Fed to tighten mortgage guidelines for banks when two-thirds of subprime mortgages don't originate from banks. This regulatory framework... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 This regulatory framework has failed to protect homeowners and it is now clear that it made no sense for our financial system. When it comes to protecting the American people, it should make no difference what kind of institution they are dealing with. Fifth, we must remain vigilant and crack down on trading activity that crosses the line to market manipulation. On recent days, reports have circulated that some traders may have intentionally spread rumors that Bear Stearns (NYSE:BSC) was in financial distress while making market bets against the country. The SEC should investigate and punish this kind of market manipulation and report its conclusions to Congress. Sixth, we need a process that identifies systemic risks to the financial system. 
 Too often we deal with threats to the financial system that weren't anticipated by regulators. That's why we should create a financial market oversight commission, which would meet regularly and provide advice to the president, Congress and regulators on the state of our financial markets and the risks that face them. These experts' views could help anticipate risks before they erupt into a crisis.
 These six principles should guide the legal reforms needed to establish a 21st-century regulatory system, but the changes we need goes beyond the laws and regulation. We need a shift in the cultures of our financial institutions and our regulatory agencies. Financial institutions have to do a better job at managing risk. There is something wrong when board of directors or senior managers don't understand the implications of the risks assumed by their own institutions. It's time to realign incentives and the compensation packages so that both high-level executives and employees better serve the interests of shareholders. And it's time to confront the risks that come with excessive complexity. Even the best government regulation cannot fully substitute for internal risk management. For supervisory agencies, oversight has to keep pace with innovation. As the subprime crisis unfolded, tough questions about new and complex financial instruments were not asked. As a result, the public interest was not protected. We do American business and the American people no favors when we turn a blind eye to excessive leverage and dangerous risks. And finally, the American people must be able to trust that their government is looking out for all of us, not just those who donate to political campaigns. I... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 I fought in the Senate for the most extensive ethics reforms since Watergate, and we got those passed. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 I've refused contributions from federal lobbyists and PACs. I have laid out far-reaching plans that I intend to sign into law as president to bring transparency to government and to end the revolving door between industries and the federal agencies that oversee them. 
 Once... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 Once we deal with the immediate crisis in housing and strengthen the regulatory system governing our financial markets, we have to make government responsive once again to all of the American people. And our final task, in fact, is to make sure that opportunity is available to all Americans. You know, the bedrock of our economic success is the American dream. It's a dream shared in big cities and small towns, across races, regions and religions, that, if you work hard, you can support a family; that if you get sick, there will be health care that you can afford; that you can retire... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 ... that you can retire with the dignity and security and respect that you've earned; and that your children can get a good education and young people can go to college, even if they don't come from a wealthy family. That's our common hope. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 That's our common hope across this country. That's the essence of the American dream. But today, for far too many Americans, this dream is slipping away. Wall Street has been recently gripped by gloom over our economic situation. But for many Americans, the economy has effectively been in recession for the past seven years. We have just come through... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 We have just come through the first sustained period of economic growth since World War II that was not accompanied by a growth in incomes for typical families. Americans are working harder for less. 
 Costs are rising, and it's not clear that we'll leave a legacy of opportunity to our children and our grandchildren. And that's why throughout this campaign I've put forward a series of proposals that will foster economic growth from the bottom up and not just from the top down. And that's why the last time I spoke on the economy here in New York, I talked about the need to put the policies of George W. Bush behind us, policies that have essentially said... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 ... policies that have essentially said to the American people, ''You are on your own.'' 
 We need policies that once again recognize that we are in this together. And we need the most powerful, the wealthiest among us -- those who are in attendance here today, we need you to get behind that agenda. 
 It's an agenda that starts with providing a stimulus that will reach the most vulnerable Americans, including immediate relief to areas hardest hit by the housing crisis and a significant extension of unemployment insurance for those who are out of work. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 If we can extend a hand to banks on Wall Street when they get into trouble, we can extend a hand to Americans who are struggling, often through no fault of their own. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 Beyond these short-term measure, as president, I will be committed to putting the American dream on a firmer footing. To reward work and make retirement secure, we'll provide an income tax (sic) of up to $1,000 for a working family and eliminate income taxes altogether for any retiree bringing in less than $50,000 per year. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 To make health care affordable for all Americans, we'll cut costs and provide coverage to all who need it. To put Americans to work, we'll create millions of new green jobs and invest in rebuilding our nation's infrastructure. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 To extend opportunity, we'll invest in our schools and our teachers and make college affordable for every American. And to ensure... 
 (APPLAUSE)
 And to ensure that America stays on the cutting edge, we'll expand broadband access, expand funding for basic scientific research, and pass comprehensive immigration reform so that we continue to attract the best and the brightest to our shores. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 I know that making these changes won't be easy. I will not pretend that this will come without costs, although I have presented ways we can achieve these changes in a fiscally responsible way. I believe in PAYGO. If I start a new program I will pay for it. If I intend to cut taxes for the middle class, then we're going to close some of the tax loopholes for corporations and the wealthy that are not working for shared prosperity. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 So we're going to have fiscal discipline. I know that we'll have to overcome our doubts and divisions and the determined opposition of powerful special interests before we can truly advance opportunity and prosperity for all Americans. But I would not be running for president if I did not think that this was a defining moment in our history. 
 If we fail to overcome our divisions and continue to let special interests set the agenda, then America will fall behind, short-term gains will continue to yield long-term costs, opportunity will slip away on Main Street, and prosperity will suffer here on Wall Street. 
 But if we unite this country around a common purpose, if we act on the responsibilities that we have to each other and to our country, then we can launch a new era of opportunity and prosperity. 
 I know we can do this because Americans have done this before. Time and again we've recognized that common stake that we have in each other's success. It's how people as different as Hamilton and Jefferson came together to launch the world's greatest experiment in democracy. That's why our economy hasn't just been the world's greatest wealth creator, it's bound America together, it's created jobs and it's made the dream of opportunity a reality for generations. 
 Now it falls to us. We have as our inheritance the greatest economy the world has ever known. We have the responsibility to continue the work that began on that spring day over two centuries ago right here in Manhattan, to renew our common purpose for a new century and to write the next chapter in the story of America's success.
 We can do this, and we can begin this work today.
 Thank you very much. 
 (APPLAUSE)
 END

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



684 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Sales Fall Short, But Profit Is Up 30%

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Oracle, the business software company, reported a 30 percent rise in quarterly profit on Wednesday, but a lower-than-expected increase in sales raised investor concern that a troubled economy could take its toll on technology spending. 
 Oracle's stock fell more than 8 percent, to $19.20 a share, in after-hours trading after the report. The shares had declined 14 cents to close at $20.94 in the regular session. 
But Oracle executives moved quickly to dismiss investors' concerns, attributing the disappointing performance in revenue to ''cautious'' behavior by some customers who delayed closing deals at the end of the third quarter. Safra A. Catz, Oracle's president and chief financial officer, said the current quarter looked ''extremely strong.''
 ''We are confident in our strategy and are extremely satisfied with our sales in Q3,'' she said. She said that new software licenses would grow 10 to 20 percent during the fourth quarter and revenue would increase 14 to 18 percent.
 The outlook came at a time when weakness in sectors like financial services, an important industry for Oracle, is unnerving investors. Net income was $1.3 billion, or 26 cents a share, up from $1 billion, or 20 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Excluding special items, earnings were in line with analysts' estimates. 
 Oracle, the second-largest software maker after Microsoft, reported revenue of $5.3 billion during the quarter ended Feb. 29, up from $4.4 billion in the quarter a year earlier. Wall Street analysts had forecast revenue of $5.42 billion.
 Sales of new software increased 16 percent, to $1.6 billion, in the third quarter, from $1.4 billion a year earlier. Total software revenue was up 21 percent, to $4.2 billion. 
 Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, said that during the quarter Oracle had taken market share from I.B.M. in database software and in a specialized sector called middleware.
 ''They executed well in light of the difficult overall conditions, but expectations got ahead of them,'' said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst at Global Equities Research. ''It may signal that macro conditions are getting a little worse.''
 ''This is not an environment where you can miss at all,'' said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst Pacific Crest Securities. ''But Oracle's guidance shows they have confidence their momentum will continue.''
 Ms. Catz described the company's margins as a highlight of the quarter, increasing to 41 percent, from 39 percent in the quarter a year earlier. ''Our operating margins were substantially higher than any of our rivals', including Microsoft,'' Ms. Catz said. Analysts said that, given the economic challenges facing the United States, Oracle would benefit because about half of its sales are to international customers.
 Last month, Oracle received approval from federal regulators to complete its $8.5 billion acquisition of a rival, BEA Systems, making it the largest publisher of corporate software known as middleware, one of the industry's fastest growing segments. Middleware programs operate between a company's database system and its payroll, inventory and other business management systems that use the data. The deal is expected to close this year.
 As a result of its long string of acquisitions, including PeopleSoft, Siebel Systems and Hyperion Solutions, Oracle has enjoyed a steady stream of maintenance revenue from its current clients. It has also benefited from a full line of enterprise software at a time when buyers increasingly prefer to buy more from a single vendor. The company said revenue from maintenance grew 23 percent, to $2.6 billion, in the quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: SAFRA A CATZ (78%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010



685 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Williams-Sonoma Forecasts Earnings Below Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: NEW YORK 

 BODY:
The upscale home goods retailer Williams-Sonoma posted a higher quarterly profit Thursday, but its shares fell 5 percent after it forecast disappointing earnings for the current fiscal year on tough economic conditions. 
 ''As we look forward to 2008, current trends indicate that we'll be operating in one of the most challenging economic environments we've seen in many years,'' the chief executive, Howard Lester, said in a conference call.
 He said it was probably the worst time he had seen in the 30 years he had been in the business.
 ''And,'' Mr. Lester said, ''we believe there are circumstances under which it could get progressively worse, particularly if we find ourselves in a protracted recession.''
 Higher gasoline and food prices, resetting mortgage rates, a credit squeeze and the United States housing decline have hurt all retailers. But chains that specialize in home goods, like Williams-Sonoma, Pier 1 Imports and Bed Bath & Beyond, have been especially affected because of significantly weaker demand for furniture and decor.
 Williams-Sonoma, owner of the Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn and West Elm chains, forecast earnings per share of $1.42 to $1.56 for the fiscal year that began on Feb. 4. Analysts, on average, were expecting $1.62, according to Reuters Estimates.
 For the current quarter, Williams-Sonoma said it expected results of break-even to a profit of 3 cents a share, below the analysts' average estimate of a 12-cent profit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); FOOD PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); EXECUTIVES (56%); MORTGAGE RATES (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (58%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (55%)

TICKER: PIR (NYSE) (58%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (58%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%)

PERSON: HOWARD LESTER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



686 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1289 words

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS and MATT ZOLLER SEITZ

 BODY:
SHELTER
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
 Directed by Jonah Markowitz
 1 hour 38 minutes; not rated
 A confused young artist is torn between his family and his future in ''Shelter,'' a sensitive romantic drama from the writer and director Jonah Markowitz.
 Set in the working-class San Pedro area of Los Angeles, the movie centers on Zach (Trevor Wright), a short-order cook. Between shifts Zach pursues a desultory relationship with his girlfriend, Tori (Katie Walder), and acts as surrogate father to his 5-year-old nephew, Cody (Jackson Wurth). His real passion, however, is painting, expressed in the stenciled graffiti he sprays on neighborhood buildings and in the art-school dreams that his selfish sister (Tina Holmes) is determined to sabotage.
 Everything changes when Zach finds himself drawn to Shaun (Brad Rowe), a confident writer and eager enabler of all of Zach's passions. As the two hit the surf and Shaun's mattress with equal enthusiasm, the movie's abundance of tanned bodies, rolling waves and golden sunsets create an aesthetic of inoffensive hedonism that perfectly matches the subject matter. 
 The first project produced by the film division of the here! cable television network, ''Shelter'' is finally less about erotic soul-searching than about defining one's boundaries. And if at times the symbolism is a bit heavy-handed -- and the ending is easily foreseen -- strong performances and Joseph White's burnished cinematography do much to atone. Coming out has rarely looked so pretty. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 ''Shelter'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Characters indulge in tasteful sex and a taste of drugs.
 A FOUR LETTER WORD
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
 Directed by Casper Andreas
 1 hour 27 minutes; not rated
 With its breezy shots of male genitalia and characters nicknamed Long John and Tripod, ''A Four Letter Word'' is a surprisingly endearing romantic comedy that explores gay relationships with low-budget verve.
 The film's swishy centerpiece is Luke (Jesse Archer), a promiscuous ''gay cliche'' who works in a Chelsea sex shop along with his friend Zeke (Cory Grant). While Luke chases sexual oblivion, Zeke engages in social activism and a running commentary on Luke's moral shortcomings. But when Luke falls for a less flamboyant lover named Stephen (Charlie David, clearly cast primarily for looks) and decides to cut back on the sparkles, he soon discovers that his new boyfriend is even more old-fashioned than he thought.
 Airily directed by Casper Andreas (who wrote the script with Mr. Archer), ''A Four Letter Word'' coasts on a good-natured raunchiness -- a nude yoga class is particularly diverting -- that's explicit but never sleazy. Spinning off characters from his gloriously titled ''Slutty Summer,'' Mr. Andreas integrates subplots involving a gay, biracial couple and a bicurious bride-to-be (an excellent Virginia Bryan). 
 Though unlikely to appeal much beyond gay audiences, the movie has something to say about hypocrisy and the dangers of snap judgments. As for the male nudity, well, you won't hear any complaints from me. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 BACKSEAT
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Bruce Van Dusen
 1 hour 20 minutes; not rated
 Only in America are adult men who refuse to grow up considered cute rather than developmentally disabled, and only in American movies is masculine immaturity celebrated with such regularity. This trend continues with ''Backseat,'' a road movie whose flailing, 30-something protagonists, while not exactly 40-year-old virgins, can have avoided that fate only by the tender mercies of women with abysmally low expectations.
 Unfolding during a three-day road trip from New York to Montreal, the movie observes Ben (Rob Bogue), an unemployed romantic, and Colton (Josh Alexander, who also wrote the screenplay), a struggling actor on a mission to meet Donald Sutherland. As Ben quotes Psychology Today and whines about his girlfriend's demands for rough sex, Colton concentrates on the pertinent elements of their journey: securing a stripper, organizing a motel-room party and delivering the package of cocaine hidden in the glove compartment. Wackiness ensues.
 Described in the press notes as ''Sideways'' for a younger generation, this odd-couple misadventure is more concerned with quirks than with characters. (One typical weirdo communicates only by texting.) Yet the acting is competent, the direction (by Bruce Van Dusen) tight and the dialogue as natural as you would expect from men stalled in perpetual adolescence. Faint praise, perhaps, but then I wasn't terribly impressed with ''Sideways'' either. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 HATS OFF
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
 Directed by Jyll Johnstone
 1 hour 24 minutes; not rated
 Ten years in the making, ''Hats Off'' is a documentary tribute to the 93-year-old actress Mimi Weddell, one of those people for whom the word ''individual'' seems especially apt. 
 Widowed at 65 by a husband who left only unpaid bills and fond memories, the indomitable Ms. Weddell saw an opportunity to follow her passion. ''I love illusion,'' she says, describing an acting career that has paid her bills for almost three decades. From ''Law & Order'' to ''Sex and the City,'' from vampire movies to cheese commercials, this remarkable woman has compiled a resume that defies the industry's rampant ageism. And while her aristocratic looks and powerhouse personality -- and an elegant way with a cigarette holder -- have no doubt contributed to her success, so too has a willingness to work 14-hour days and fight for roles.
 ''Mimi's driven,'' says her son, Tom, who shares his mother's East Side Manhattan apartment along with his sister, Sarah Dillon, and other family members. And as the filmmakers, Jyll Johnstone and Michael Arlen Davis, strive to keep up with their subject's punishing schedule of dance lessons, gym workouts, auditions and even a sightseeing trip to Florence, their movie seldom flags. For Ms. Weddell, standing still may be life's only remaining terror. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS 
 CHAPTER 27
 Opens on Friday in New York. 
 Directed by J. P. Schaefer
 1 hour 25 minutes
 Any film that dares attempt a nonjudgmental portrait of Mark David Chapman, John Lennon's assassin, would most likely be accused of tastelessness, but in the case of ''Chapter 27'' -- a drama based on Jack Jones's book ''Let Me Take You Down'' -- the charges are justified. 
 The film's writer and director, J. P. Schaefer, switches between a docudrama portrait of Mr. Chapman (overplayed by Jared Leto as if he were Truman Capote's mouth-breathing cousin); silly flights of fancy (including a never-happened encounter between Mr. Chapman and Sean Lennon); and ''Taxi Driver''-inspired subjective filmmaking meant to put us inside Mr. Chapman's crumbling mind. 
 The film also acknowledges pop culture touchstones that supposedly drove Mr. Chapman to homicide, including Beatles songs and J. D. Salinger's novel ''The Catcher in the Rye'' (referred to through quotations, borrowed situations, impressionistic cutaways to rye fields and in the film's title, which refers to a nonexistent final chapter of Mr. Salinger's book). 
 None of these elements are integrated coherently enough to seem like more than postmodern noodling. And except for Judah Friedlander's earthy, funny work as a paparazzo, most of the performances are vague and dull, including Lindsay Lohan's supporting turn as a fictional Beatles fan who befriends Mr. Chapman. The character's name is Jude. Care to guess how Chapman greets her? MATT ZOLLER SEITZ
 ''Chapter 27'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for language and some sexual content.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A film review last Friday about ''Chapter 27,'' a portrait of John Lennon's killer, Mark David Chapman, referred incorrectly to the movie's depiction of an encounter between Mr. Chapman and Lennon's son Sean and the character who introduces them. The encounter did in fact happen; it was not one of the film's ''silly flights of fancy.'' And the character, a Beatles fan named Jude played by Lindsay Lohan, is based on a real person; the character is not fictional.
A film review last Friday about ''Chapter 27,'' a portrait of John Lennon's killer, Mark David Chapman, referred incorrectly to the movie's depiction of an encounter between Mr. Chapman and Lennon's son Sean and the character who introduces them. The encounter did in fact happen; it was not one of the film's ''silly flights of fancy.'' And the character, a Beatles fan named Jude played by Lindsay Lohan, is based on a real person; the character is not fictional.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mimi Weddell, the 93-year-old actress in the documentary ''Hats Off.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYANT WOODD, COURTESY OF CANOBIE FILMS)
Cory Grant in the romantic comedy ''A Four Letter Word,'' directed by Casper Andreas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMBREM ENTERTAINMENT)
 Brad Rowe, left, and Trevor Wright in ''Shelter,'' directed by Jonah Markowitz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REGENT RELEASING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); WRITERS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); YOGA (72%); COMEDY FILMS (71%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



687 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Odd Crop Prices Defy Economics

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Economists note there should not be two prices for one thing at the same place and time. Could a drugstore sell two identical tubes of toothpaste, and charge 50 cents more for one of them? Of course not.
 But, in effect, exactly that has been happening, repeatedly and mysteriously, in trading that sets prices for corn, soybeans and wheat -- three of America's biggest crops and, lately, popular targets for investors pouring into the volatile commodities market. Economists who have been studying this phenomenon say they are at a loss to explain it.
 Whatever the reason, the price for a bushel of grain set in the derivatives markets has been substantially higher than the simultaneous price in the cash market.
 When that happens, no one can be exactly sure which is the accurate price in these crucial commodity markets, an uncertainty that can influence food prices and production decisions around the world. 
 These disparities also raise the question of whether American farmers, who rely almost exclusively on the cash market, are being shortchanged by cash prices that are lower than they should be. 
 ''We do not have a clear understanding of what is driving these episodic instances,'' said Prof. Scott H. Irwin, one of three agricultural economists at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who have done extensive research on these price distortions.
 Professor Irwin and his colleagues, Prof. Philip T. Garcia and Prof. Darrel L. Good, first sounded the alarm about these price distortions in late 2006 in a study financed by the Chicago Board of Trade. Their findings drew little attention then, Professor Irwin said, but lately ''people have begun to get very seriously interested in why this is happening -- because it is a fundamental problem in markets that have generally worked well in the past.''
 Market regulators say they have ruled out deliberate market manipulation. But they, too, are baffled. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates the exchanges where these grain derivatives trade, has scheduled a forum on April 22 where market participants will discuss these anomalies and other pressure points arising in the agricultural markets.
 The mechanics of the commodity markets are more complex than selling toothpaste, however. The anomalies are occurring between the price of a bushel of grain in the cash market and the price of that same bushel of grain, as determined by the expiration price of a futures contract traded in Chicago.
 A futures contract is an agreement to deliver a specific amount of a commodity -- 5,000 bushels of wheat, say -- on a certain date in the future. Such contracts are important hedging tools for farmers, grain elevators, commodity processors and anyone with a stake in future grain prices. A futures contract that calls for delivery of wheat in July may trade for more or less for each bushel than today's cash market price. But as each day goes by, its price should move a bit closer to that day's cash price. And on expiration day, when the bushels of wheat covered by that futures contract are due for delivery, their price should very nearly match the price in the cash market, allowing for a little market friction or major delivery disruptions like Hurricane Katrina. 
 But on dozens of occasions since early 2006, the futures contracts for corn, wheat and soybeans have expired at a price that was much higher than that day's cash price for those grains. 
 For example, soybean futures contracts expired in July at a price of $9.13 a bushel, which was 80 cents higher than the cash price that day, Professor Irwin said. In August, the futures expired at $8.62, or 68 cents above the cash price, and in September, the expiration price was $9.43, or 78 cents above the cash price.
 Corn has been similarly eccentric. A corn futures contract expired last September at $3.36, which was a remarkable 55 cents above the cash price, but the contract that expired in March 2007 was roughly even with the cash price.
 ''As far as I know, nothing like this has ever happened in the corn market,'' said Professor Irwin. 
 Wheat futures had been especially prone to this phenomenon, going back several years. Indeed, the 2007 study by Professor Irwin and his colleagues concluded that wheat price distortions reflected a ''failure to accomplish one of the fundamental tasks of a futures market.'' 
 And while the situation improved sharply for wheat futures in Chicago late last year, it deteriorated for futures traded in Kansas City. And it has gotten worse for corn and soybeans, Professor Irwin said. Many people have a theory about why this is happening, but none of them seem to cover all the available facts.
 Mary Haffenberg, a spokeswoman for the CME Group, which owns the Chicago Board of Trade, where these contracts trade, said the anomalies might be a temporary result of ''a lot of shocks to the system,'' including sharp increases in worldwide food demand, uncertainty about supplies and surging commodity investments. 
 Veteran traders and many farmers blame the new arrivals in the commodities markets: hedge funds, pension funds and index funds. These investors and speculators, they complain, are distorting futures prices by pouring in so much money without regard to market fundamentals.
 ''The market sends a sell signal, but they don't sell,'' said Kendell W. Keith, president of the National Grain and Feed Association. ''So the markets are not behaving the way they otherwise would -- and the pricing formula for the industry is a lot fuzzier and a lot less efficient than we've ever seen.''
 Representatives of the new financial speculators dispute that. Their money has vastly increased the liquidity in the futures markets, they say, and better liquidity improves markets, making them less volatile for everyone.
 And, as Professor Irwin noted, if new money pouring into the market has been causing these distortions, they probably would be occurring more consistently than they are.
 Some experienced commodity analysts think the flaw may be in the design of the contracts, said Richard J. Feltes, senior vice president and director of commodity research for MF Global, the world's largest commodity futures brokerage firm. If futures were settled based on a cash index, it would eliminate these odd disparities, Mr. Feltes said.
 Ms. Haffenberg at the CME Group said cash settlement had ''not been ruled out,'' but it raised the question of finding the appropriate cash index. Other modest contract changes are awaiting approval of the futures trading commission, she said.
 ''We are continuing to have industry meetings to discuss what we need to do,'' she said. ''But we want to be careful, before we undertake any changes, that above all, we don't do any harm.''
 Moreover, defenders of the exchange's current contract design note that these widely used agreements have gone largely unchanged for some time -- and yet, have only begun to display this odd and inconsistent behavior in the last few years.
 Some economists are exploring whether some unperceived bottlenecks in the delivery system explain what is going on. But traders say that such bottlenecks would eventually become known in the market and prices would adjust. Professor Irwin, whose research is continuing, said there might not be a single explanation for the price distortions.
 Markets may simply be responding to the uneven impact of new financial technology, which allows more money to flow in and out, and to investors' growing but fluctuating appetite for hard assets. 
 ''Those factors may be combining to create this highly volatile environment for discovering prices,'' he said. ''But for now, that is pure conjecture on my part.''
 What is not happening in these markets is equally mysterious. Normally, price disparities like these are quickly exploited by arbitrage traders who buy goods in the cheap market and sell them in the expensive one. Their buying and selling quickly brings the prices back into balance -- but that is not happening here.
 ''These are highly competitive markets with very experienced traders,'' he said. ''Yet they are leaving these profits alone? It just doesn't make sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A farmer harvested corn in Illinois last September. A corn futures contract that month expired 55 cents above the cash price. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C6) GRAPH: FUTURES PRICE PREMIUM OVER CASH PRICE OF SOYBEANS, AT SETTLEMENT: In an unusual price distortion, some futures contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade have been settling at prices well above that day's cash price for the same commodity. (Source: Prof. Scott Irwin, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) (pg. C1) Graph showing cash price settlement over soybeans. GRAPH: FUTURES PRICE PREMIUM OVER CASH PRICE AT SETTLEMENT (Source: Prof. Scott Irwin, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) (pg. C6) Graph showing cash price of wheat and corn at settlement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); WHEAT FARMING (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (82%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



688 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: 4th-Quarter Data Confirms Frailty of the Broad Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Final Commerce Department statistics for the fourth quarter of 2007 indicated Thursday that the economy came close to sputtering out.
 The department reported that the gross domestic product increased at a 0.6 percent annual pace from Oct. 1 through Dec. 31. The reading, unchanged from a previous update of the figures a month earlier, offered confirmation of how much the economy had weakened. In the third quarter of 2007, it grew at a 4.9 percent annual pace. 
 The gross domestic product measures the value of all goods and services produced in the United States and is considered the best general gauge of economic health.
 Many economists expect growth in the current quarter to be even weaker, and a rising number say it may already be contracting. By strict definition, economic contraction for two quarters, or six months, constitutes a recession. The government will release its estimate of the gross domestic product for the first quarter late next month.
 ''The economy just kept its head above water'' in the fourth quarter, said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight. ''We think that G.D.P. will decline, albeit slightly, during the first half of 2008. The first-half outlook is bleak.''
 In another report, the Labor Department said Thursday that fewer people signed up for initial unemployment benefits last week, though that did not change the broader picture of a deteriorating job market. Jobless claims fell by 9,000, to 366,000, a better showing than many economists had forecast. Still, unemployment is expected to rise this year.
 Consumers, indispensable to economic vitality, increased their spending at a 2.3 percent pace in the fourth quarter. That was better than the 1.9 percent pace previously estimated, but a drop from the 2.8 percent pace in the third quarter.
 Businesses, seemingly anxious about customers' purchasing, sharply reduced their inventories of unsold goods. That shaved 1.79 percentage points off fourth-quarter output.
 But sales of American goods and services to other countries grew at a 6.5 percent annual pace. Exports have been buoyed by the sinking value of the dollar, which makes American goods less expensive to foreign buyers. 
 An inflation measure linked to the gross domestic product showed that prices increased at a pace of 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter, sharply higher than the third quarter's 1.8 percent.
 So-called core prices -- excluding food and energy -- grew at a pace of 2.5 percent, up from 2 percent in the third quarter.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: REAL ECONOMIC GROWTH: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department)
 JOBLESS CLAIMS: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Graphs showing fewer jobless claims and stronger exports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



689 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: What's On Tonight

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE RUSSELL

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) THE FULL MONTY (1997) Set in the once-prosperous steel town of Sheffield, England, this comedy tells the story of jobless men who turn to stripping for extra cash. The question is whether the men, above, who are definitely not Chippendale candidates, will deliver on their promise of going ''the full monty'' -- completely nude. Janet Maslin of The New York Times had this to say: ''No laughing at 'The Full Monty?' Sorry. Not a chance.'' 
 8 P.M. (NBC) AMNE$IA Dennis Miller challenges Tim McCoy of Cathedral City, Calif., to remember events from his own life. 
 9:30 P.M. (HBO) IN TREATMENT In the season finale the impatient psychoanalyst Paul (Gabriel Byrne) must deal with repercussions from pursuing Laura (Melissa George). And he is surprised to find that the tactics of his own therapist (Dianne Wiest) actually help him.
 10 P.M. (BET) IRON RING Celebrities become managers and coaches on this mixed-martial-arts competition show. Tonight, Ludacris, above, Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Lil John meet their fighters. 
 10 P.M. (Sci Fi) BATTLESTAR GALACTICA: REVEALED Ronald D. Moore and David Eick, executive producers of ''Battlestar Galactica,'' whose fourth season begins next week, recap the first three seasons. In ''Battlestar Galactica: The Phenomenon'' at 10:30, stars including Seth Green, Brad Paisley and Joel McHale discuss the show's impact on pop culture. 
 10 P.M. (TLC) 10 YEARS YOUNGER Women are placed inside a soundproof display case on a busy street in Los Angeles and passers-by critique their looks and guess their ages. Afterward the women get makeovers and hope to look much younger. 
 11 P.M. (IFC) SPEED GRAPHER This Japanese anime series features Saiga, a respected war photographer who is now paying the bills with tabloid journalism. Sent to infiltrate and photograph Tokyo's dark underground elite, he becomes strangely tied to a sad, trapped young girl named Kagura. Tonight Saiga hunts down Kagura's captor, Suitengu. 
 11:30 P.M. (Animal Planet) LEMUR KINGDOM The members of the ''Graveyard Gang'' lose their fur after eating a poisonous plant. They were hungry and desperate. One of the lemurs gives birth, but her poor health puts both her and the baby in jeopardy. 
 MIDNIGHT (ABC) JIMMY KIMMEL LIVEKate Bosworth and Spencer Grammer are guests. Serj Tankian performs.STEPHANIE RUSSELL 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); ANIMATION (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); WOMEN (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (71%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



690 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: A Coach's Value: Wins, Losses, Dollars Raised

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Charlotte, N.C. 

 BODY:
 Not long ago, Bruce Pearl and Tony Bennett were working at obscure basketball programs: Pearl was coaching Southern Indiana and Bennett was a player-coach for the North Harbor Kings of New Zealand. 
 Today, Pearl of Tennessee and Bennett of Washington State are the latest examples of big-time college sports where a coach who wins can earn his weight in gold. They may well be on the brink of pushing their universities into what Myles Brand, the N.C.A.A. president, called the ''arms race'' in big-time intercollegiate athletics. 
 Depending on which rumors you believe, Indiana University is eying Pearl and Bennett. Each would be a perfect fit for the Hoosiers, who are desperate to stop a five-year free fall. 
 The charismatic Pearl has revitalized Tennessee, which lost to Louisville on Thursday. Bennett replaced his father and tied a team record for victories and led the Cougars to the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time in 13 years. The Cougars were routed, 68-47, by top-seeded North Carolina, but Bennett is clearly on the upswing. 
 The questions are how much is it worth to Indiana to pursue Pearl and Bennett, and how much is it worth to Washington State and Tennessee to keep them? A few hundred thousand? Millions? 
 Mike Hamilton, the Tennessee athletic director, essentially said, arms race be damned, Tennessee will do whatever it takes to keep Pearl in Knoxville.
 The larger question -- and this has been a haunting one throughout the tournament -- is whether the head coaches of football and basketball should be the highest-paid employees on a college campus. 
 ''They should, in the context of what has evolved,'' Hamilton said Thursday. ''We could talk about should and could, but I'm more about dealing with reality, and the reality is that the market, right, wrong, indifferent or twisted, has said, 'This is what football and basketball coaches mean to institutions.' '' 
 He added: ''I think teachers, as a general rule, from elementary school up, are worth more to society than they're paid. But the economic structure in our country has determined a different value at this point.''
 The battle of escalating contracts -- football and basketball -- has less to do with wins and losses than with so-called incremental revenue. This is why the arms race in intercollegiate athletics won't end anytime soon.
 Those increments. Four years ago, the Tennessee men's basketball revenue concession was a little more than $200,000. This season, the concession revenue nearly reached $1.1 million. Before Pearl arrived, the Tennessee athletic department planned to renovate Thompson-Boling Arena. It was going to pay for the renovation by building 26 luxury suites. There were also plans to build a practice facility for $16 million. 
 When Pearl arrived, there was $2 million pledged toward the practice facility, and five of the suites were committed. Then Tennessee upset Texas on national television. All of the remaining suites were sold -- in fact, 12 more were added. The money pledged for the practice facility ballooned to $24 million. The average crowd of 13,000 grew to 20,000. 
 ''Why do we pay Bruce Pearl what we pay Bruce Pearl? Why will we pay Bruce Pearl what we will pay Bruce Pearl?'' Hamilton asked. ''It's because he's had a profound impact on our basketball program, on the floor and off the floor in a tangible way and an intangible way.''
 Doesn't sound like Tennessee will be disarming soon.
 A university like Washington State, located in beautiful but isolated Pullman, will eventually have to decide whether to pull back or go a step beyond. 
 Elson Floyd, the Washington State president, once called intercollegiate sports ''the front door of the university.'' Floyd, recognizing that Bennett is a rising star in the industry, doubled Bennett's salary to $800,000 last year. 
 That was a good pre-emptive strike, but the reality is that in this ever-escalating environment of intercollegiate athletics where no one is willing to say no, the raise may not be enough to keep Bennett in Pullman.
 Hamilton said, ''When you have an individual who has an impact on your program at that level, you've got decide what your threshold of pain is in order to make sure you maintain consistency.''
 Indiana hired Kelvin Sampson despite a significant and fresh blemish on his resume. The university wound up getting burned. A fresh face like Bennett must be tempting. 
 Incremental value. That's the key. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); BUILDING RENOVATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (58%) INDIANA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



691 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Optimism Takes A Holiday

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
America's self-confidence is on the wane.
 It is not just that the economy seems to be in a recession, although that is no doubt a big part of it. Foreign policy reversals and worries that the United States cannot compete in a changing world also play a role.
 Similar fears have arisen before and have eventually been proved wrong. But that has always taken time, perhaps because such deep fears can be self-fulfilling as both businesses and consumers cut back spending -- something that appears to be happening now. 
 Evidence of the loss of confidence came this week when the Conference Board released its consumer confidence survey for March. What stood out was how far economic expectations have fallen. The amount of pessimism -- as shown by people who forecast that things will get worse -- is not quite at record highs. But the amount of optimism that things will get better is as low as it has been in the four decades that the Conference Board has been asking questions.
 Why is that? It is not just the decline in home prices and the increase in mortgage defaults. Nor is the seemingly interminable war in Iraq the major cause, although it, too, is probably playing a role. Instead, it is evidence that America is no longer a leader, or perhaps even competent, in one area in which we believed it excelled.
 That area is finance. Only months ago, American financial institutions were pre-eminent in the world economy. We were the country that invented all the new financial products and that made lots of money from them. It was our investment banks that were called upon to advise companies and governments in other countries, and then to arrange the financing they needed.
 Now that reputation lies in tatters. Our big banks have been forced to turn to places like China and Abu Dhabi for capital as losses have mounted. But no similar angel turned up for Bear Stearns, and the Federal Reserve Board had to step in to avert disaster.
 The Fed, which only months ago seemed omniscient, now seems to be making it up as it goes along.
 Perhaps the most similar loss of confidence -- at least since the end of the Great Depression -- came in late 1973, when a sudden increase in the price of oil brought on a severe recession. The continuing war in Vietnam also hurt confidence, and the president was under siege in the Watergate scandal, which led to his resignation the following year.
 In December 1973 the Conference Board's consumer expectations index hit the lowest level ever, 45.2. The reading disclosed this week, 47.9, ranks second.
 In some ways, there is even less optimism now than there was then. A lower proportion of those surveyed expect business conditions to improve within six months, and the percentage of people who think their own income will rise is much lower now than it was then. Only in jobs is there more optimism now, and the difference is small. 
 The other time that is comparable in terms of a loss of confidence was early 1980, when the country was facing a new recession and imposing credit controls in what seemed to be a panicky, and unsuccessful, response to rising inflation. The Iranian hostage crisis seemed insoluble, and the president was facing a primary challenge within his own party.
 Expectations also declined in 1990, although not quite as far. That came after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and amid worries about a seeming inability to compete with Japan, whose great economic success was envied and resented. In fact, the Japanese bubble was bursting, but that was not clear then.
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary and former chief executive of Goldman Sachs, has tried to be reassuring. But squabbling in Washington over what should be done may have contributed to a sense of drift.
 In a speech this week, Mr. Paulson dismissed as ''not yet ready for the starting gate'' some proposals by Congressional Democrats. He said he was trying to avoid ''unnecessary capital market turmoil,'' which seemed to imply he had no problem with necessary turmoil, and he cautioned against efforts to ''slow the housing correction,'' which he deemed healthy. That statement may not have encouraged fearful homeowners.
 ''I am constantly asked how much longer will this take to play out and if this is the worst period of market stress I have experienced,'' he said in a speech to a Chamber of Commerce group. ''I respond that every period of prolonged turbulence seems to be the worst until it is resolved. And it always is resolved. Our economy and our capital markets are flexible and resilient, and I have great confidence in them.''
 That confidence is not shared by many in the public, however. Nor is it only consumers who are scared. Corporate executives tell pollsters they are worried and are cutting back on capital spending. Many, according to a poll of chief financial officers by Duke University and CFO magazine, think the recession will not end until 2009.
 By then, there will be a new president. And the political seers may want to note that the Conference Board's expectation index, which dates to 1967, has fallen below 60 in just 10 surveys before this year -- in 1973-74, 1980 and 1990-91. In the presidential election after each of those crises of confidence, the incumbent party lost the White House.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: Share of consumers surveyed in March expecting conditions to improve in the next six months. (Source: Conference Board) (pg. C1) Graph showing consumer share improvement within the next six months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); HOME PRICES (66%); IRAQ WAR (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



692 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Smooth and Safe at Pier 94

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
These days contemporary-art fairs tend to travel in franchised packs. A large successful fair spawns parasite copycat fairs, and before you know it, you've got an art-fair fair. 
 New York is having one this weekend. The Armory Show, now in its 10th incarnation, is back, accompanied by nine younger, smaller, less prestigious fairs, the most ever. Those who make their way through all of them should be honored -- like the seven-summits climbers who scale the highest peak on each of the world's continents -- or medicated for obsessive-compulsive disorder.
 Given a downwardly spiraling economy that no doubt will affect all aspects of the art world, fairs included, this situation may be temporary. But even without the falling dollar and nervous hedge funders, there is a point at which critical mass fosters inertia.
 There is nothing wrong with art fairs that fewer of them wouldn't cure. Once, they were finite tribal rituals. Dealers around the world who didn't see one another often would set up camp for a few days, experience the hive mind, exchange information (and goods) and network. The public came, first the frenzied-shopping few and the informed observers, then the general audience. 
 But these days, with so many fairs, dealers now see entirely too much of one another. They often spend most of their time at fairs or preparing for, or recovering from, them. And the fairs now run like clockwork, almost in their sleep, you could say.
 The Armory Show on Pier 94, for example, is in top form. It lacks the stylish comforts and city-wide branding of the Frieze Fair in London, but at least it is now being held under one roof, on one pier instead of two. And there's always Chelsea, the world's biggest nonstop art fair 30 blocks to the south. The Armory doesn't have the balmy weather and exposed skin of Art Basel Miami Beach, but, hey, it is happening in March, not February -- this year anyway. And while it lacks Art Basel's older European dealers, with their booths full of choice modern masters, a sense of maturity seems to have settled upon the place.
 This year's Armory should take as its motto a recent poster (unfortunately not at the fair) by Mads Lynnerup, a Danish-born artist based in San Francisco. It reads: ''If you see anything interesting please let someone know immediately!'' This polite elongation of the paranoid counterterrorism campaign mounted by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York (''If you see something, say something'') promotes the art world's oldest information highway: word of mouth. But the anxious tone suggests that things of interest have lately been too few and far between.
 And so it is that the Armory Show goes down very smoothly, not unlike the Whitney Biennial or last summer's Venice Biennale. An air of orderly professionalism pervades; outrageousness of any kind is rare. There are no cringe-inducing moments, although the cluttered, quasi-Rauschenbergian installation cooked up by Assume Vivid Astro Focus for the exterior of the V.I.P. Lounge comes close. And there is almost nothing that makes you stop in your tracks. Yes, there is the annual tape-'n'-things sculpture by Thomas Hirschhorn. This one, ''Tool Table,'' is, for a change, bloodless and cerebral: a sea of mannequin hands clutching de rigueur books (Nietzsche, Sartre, Thomas More) or tools (hammer, saw, trowel). It proves how much Mr. Hirschhorn's work needs some form of sex or violence.
 The show's smoothness extends to the layout, which is surprisingly nonhierarchical, with more- and less-established dealers in larger and smaller spaces mingled throughout. Some booths are like large vitrines; you can see everything from the aisle. Others are like small galleries; you can walk in, browse and admire the furniture, which is sometimes as interesting as the art. If things seem a bit more crowded in the shorter arms of the fair -- which is laid out in a giant capital T that you enter at the crossing -- they also feel nominally looser and more playful, like an earlier version of the fair.
 The attraction of any art fair is that many kinds of art all talk at once, randomly, democratically, in a relatively direct way, unedited by museum curators, magazine editors, international exhibition commissioners or even art critics. Still, it is possible to string together different conversations. One concerns the persistence of painting or paintinglike surfaces, something that few museums seem willing to broach these days. If you want to call this market-driven, fine. Paintings are portable and salable. But, like the novel or the love song, the medium is also wonderfully mutable and susceptible to physical, emotional and symbolic variation.
 At Galerie nachst St. Stephan, the different concepts of painting all but come to blows, what with Imi Knoebel's update of Russian Suprematism in beams of bright, anodized aluminum; Adrian Schiess's wall-size, iridescent, lyrical abstraction (based on a photograph and printed by ink-jet); Helmut Federle's wispy little abstractions, the result of time spent in Japan; and Adam Adach's rough rendering of trash compactors hanging on a wall covered with newspaper front pages from around the world, each neatly shorn of images. Bjarne Melgaard's parody of Neo-Expressionism snarls forth from several booths, while Jonathan Meese's equally satirical version -- more colorful than usual -- chews up the carpet at Contemporary Fine Arts. 
 At Modern Institute, Anselm Reyle, Cathy Wilkes, Katja Strunz, Jim Lambie and Victoria Morton pursue different pictorial languages, from flat to sculptural, on the wall, on the floor and free-standing. (For more free-standing color, try Meschac Gaba's knit hats as architectural models at Michael Stevenson, and, at Jack Shainman, Jonathan Seliger's towering rendition of an Hermes shopping bag in car enamel on aluminum.) At Canada, Joe Bradley presents the fair's most stripped-down, to-the-point painting: four panels of unpainted beigey vinyl titled ''Bread.'' 
 At Blum & Poe, Chiho Aoshima abandons her usual high-gloss surfaces to create a soft, cartoony, urban wrap-around mural on paper, melding photography and digital manipulation with clouds as old as Japanese screens. At Patrick Painter, Ivan Morley reiterates a mildly Abstract Expressionist composition (middle-period Guston) with thread, while Tim Berresheim uses ink-jet to print a frazzled, linear, computer-derived motif on wood. At Rivington Arms, John Finneran is painting stacks of things like trash cans and free-floating lips on metal with panache and humor, conjuring a cameraless Warhol.
 The nonpainting conversation is, of course, vociferous. At Bellwether, Daphne Fitzpatrick's raw-wood ramp and gigantic copper-lined shoe create their own strange world, aided by Anne Hardy's ambitious set-up photograph and Chihcheng Peng's ''Shadow Your Man,'' a series of hilarious digital variations on a short sequence from Buster Keaton's ''Sherlock Jr.,'' in which shoes figure prominently. 
 At Murray Guy, a dozen large images by the German photographer Barbara Probst show the same woman photographed at the same instant from all angles, stretching one second into three-dimensional space, like Cubism. 
 The galleries of Foxy Production and Marc Foxx have landed across the aisle from each other with large, competing sculptures by Sterling Ruby in vandalized white Formica. 
 Another conversation concerns one-person shows. Some are little retrospectives, like the surveys of Eleanor Antin (Ronald Feldman), Adrian Piper (Elizabeth Dee), Martin Creed (Hauser & Wirth) and Jenny Holzer (Cheim & Read). 
 Other solos feature new, unfamiliar names. One of the best is at Hotel, a London gallery, which has devoted its small, black-walled booth to the elegantly goth paintings and also the sculptures of Michael Bauer. 
 Also outstanding is Eigen & Art's presentation of Maix Mayer, an artist from Leipzig, Germany, who, unbelievably, is not a painter. Mr. Mayer's subject is the failure of the future, recounted in photographs of derelict modernist buildings in Taiwan and the former East Germany and in short films shot in and around them. The booth is covered with wallpaper in patterns based on these structures, creating a total environment in which banality and tragedy conspire. 
 Nearby, at the Derek Eller booth, the manic master draftsman Dominic McGill also meditates on modernism past and future, while adding collage to his arsenal in ''Moloch.'' In this enormous, new, volcanic drawing-collage, the words of Baudrillard, Santayana, George W. Bush and many others collide and combust around a fiery newsreel-like cluster of magazine images, all red. Their shape is based on the flailing monster at the center of Max Ernst's ''Fireside Angel,'' which was inspired by the rise of Franco. Mr. McGill has mustered a commensurately apocalyptic tone. He makes the end seem near, and for much more than just art fairs. 
 Here is information about the art shows this weekend in Manhattan. Unless noted, all run through Sunday. 
 THE ARMORY SHOW, Pier 94, 12th Avenue at 55th Street, Clinton; thearmoryshow.com. 
 BRIDGE ART FAIR, New York 2008: the Waterfront, 269 11th Avenue, near 27th Street, ; bridgeartfair.com. 
 DIGITAL AND VIDEO ART FAIR, (DiVA) 2008 New York, White Box, 525 West 26th Street, Chelsea, and in shipping containers throughout the West Chelsea gallery district, 20th to 26th Streets, between 10th and 11th Avenues. (212) 604-0519; divafair.com. 
 LA ART IN NY, Altman Building, 135 West 18th Street; laartfair.com. 
 NEW YORK ART AND DESIGN FAIR, Park Avenue Armory, Park Avenue at 67th Street; www.newyorkdesignfair.com. Through Monday.
 POOL ART FAIR, ''Meet Me Here,'' Hotel Chelsea, 222 West 23rd Street; poolartfair.com. 
 PULSE ART FAIR NEW YORK, Pier 40, 353 West Street, West Village; pulse-art.com.
 RED DOT NEW YORK CITY, Park South Hotel, 122 East 28th Street; reddotfair.com.
 SCOPE NEW YORK, Scope Pavilion, Lincoln Center, Damrosch Park, 62nd Street and 10th Avenue; scope-art.com. 
 VOLTA NY, 7 West 34th Street, (646) 641-8732; voltashow.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Modern Institute's booth, Jim Lambie is represented by this colorful wall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E34)
The Derek Eller booth at the Armory Show includes, at left, the drawing-collage ''Moloch,'' by Dominic McGill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E34)
THE ARMORY SHOW at Pier 94 includes the Bellwether booth, left, with work by Daphne Fitzpatrick, Anne Hardy and Chihcheng Peng
a Meschac Gaba knit hat at Michael Stevenson, below
 and ''Tool Table'' by Thomas Hirschhorn at Arndt & Partners, below left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (55%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



693 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Issues Indictment Of Governor In Puerto Rico

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Gov. Anibal Acevedo Vila of Puerto Rico, charged in a federal indictment unsealed on Thursday with campaign finance violations, denied any wrongdoing and vowed to remain in office and fight the charges.
 Among the 19 criminal counts he faces are tax fraud and using campaign money to pay for family vacations in Miami; Orlando, Fla.; and China; to pay for $57,000 worth of ''high end'' clothing; and to pay personal credit card bills.
 The indictment threw Puerto Rican politics into disarray as some politicians and political commentators called for Mr. Acevedo's resignation and members of the opposition party, the pro-statehood New Progressive Party, began to discuss impeachment. 
 Mr. Acevedo said the indictment, which charges him with crimes related to financing three campaigns from 1999 to 2004, was ''politically motivated'' and ''totally false.'' 
 ''I want you to be sure that I will continue working hard with my cabinet to move the country forward and face the economic challenges,'' the governor, a Democrat running for re-election on the pro-commonwealth Popular Democratic Party ticket, said in a televised statement. ''I will never allow a politically motivated prosecution to distract me from serving you.''
 The indictment ended months of speculation and produced something of a collective exhalation as the island could pass from gossip to the realities of a federal prosecution.
 The indictment, from a grand jury investigation that lasted more than two years, also charged 12 associates of Mr. Acevedo on the island and in the United States mainland with participation in illegal fund-raising. 
 Mr. Acevedo, 48, said he would surrender to the authorities on Friday. He faces up to 20 years if convicted on all counts, the authorities said. 
 Most of the other defendants were arrested, and federal officials said they were seeking the remaining few.
 Jose F. Aponte Hernandez, the speaker of the commonwealth's House and a member of the New Progressive Party, said the party would decide on Friday whether to proceed with impeachment.
 ''This is a bad situation for Puerto Rico, not only for the governor, but for the people of Puerto Rico,'' Mr. Aponte said in a telephone interview. 
 Mr. Aponte said that although he and the governor were from different parties ''this is not the best situation for Puerto Rico.''
 ''I can not be happy about it,'' he added.
 The prosecution may affect the presidential race. Mr. Acevedo is a superdelegate to the Democratic National Convention and a supporter of Senator Barack Obama.
 The 27-count indictment accuses the defendants of conspiring to raise money illegally to pay off large debts stemming from Mr. Acevedo's successful campaigns in 2000 and 2002 to be the commonwealth's nonvoting member of Congress, a position he held from 2001 to 2005, when he became governor. The reported campaign debt in 2000 was $545,000, the indictment says.
 In the scheme, the indictment adds, Mr. Acevedo, with the help of other defendants, solicited and then reimbursed illegal campaign contributions from members of Mr. Acevedo's family and staff and from the family members and staff of a group of businessmen in and around Philadelphia. 
 To circumvent contribution limits, the governor and his associates disguised the sources of the contributions by listing them under other people's names, the indictment states.
 In return for the contributions, the indictment says, Mr. Acevedo helped the businessmen obtain contracts from Puerto Rican government agencies for them and their clients. 
 In the governor's 2004 campaign, the indictment says, Puerto Rican businessmen made large and unreported donations to the campaign, as much as $50,000 each, by disguising them as corporate payments to a public relations and media company that the campaign had contracted. In fact, those payments were covering campaign expenses. 
 The indictment accuses Mr. Acevedo of using campaign money for personal use and illegally failing to report it on income tax returns. The investigation had been a lively topic among politicians, political analysts and the news media in Puerto Rico. In the absence of many hard facts, rumor became operative, until the announcement of the indictment. 
 ''It is the talk everywhere, and in general, what you hear is people saying what an embarrassment this is for Puerto Rico,'' said Michelle Fabelo, a finance manager in San Juan.
 ''This is a zoo, you can imagine,'' added Luis Davila Colon, a political analyst in San Juan. 
 Reaction on the island appeared to hew to the sharp divisions that define commonwealth politics. Mr. Acevedo's supporters backed his contention that the case was politically motivated. His opponents said the indictment seemed to underscore their long-held contentions that the governor was corrupt. 
 In a statement circulated by the governor's office, Thomas C. Green, a lawyer in Washington who represents Mr. Acevedo, called the charges senseless and questioned why the indictment was unsealed ''only months'' before the election. 
 ''This is an unprecedented and underserved intrusion by the federal government into the affairs and electoral process in the commonwealth,'' Mr. Green said in a statement. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Anibal Acevedo Vila reacting to his indictment on campaign finance charges from his office in San Juan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANA MARTINEZ/REUTERS)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (93%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); IMPEACHMENT (75%); ARRESTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SUPERDELEGATES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



694 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; AWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Guatemala, as Muse and Base

BYLINE: By LOUISE TUTELIAN

 BODY:
TO reach her favorite place in the world, Joyce Maynard flies for five hours from San Francisco, near her main home in Mill Valley, Calif. Then she is jostled for two and a half hours in a hired minivan over dusty two-lane roads beset by construction delays and clogged by buses spewing fumes. Finally, she boards a launch for a 45-minute ride to the tiny dock near her casa. 
 Ms. Maynard's two-story wood and adobe second home perches on a green hillside just outside the village of San Marcos La Laguna, Guatemala, on the edge of Lake Atitlan, one of the deepest lakes in the Americas. Three dormant volcanoes, their peaks often clouded by mist, rim the southern shore of the lake, standing guard over the teal blue water. One of them, San Pedro, is perfectly framed in the view from Ms. Maynard's bedroom balcony, but every window has a spectacular vista.
 Stone steps curve gracefully down from the house, through tall wrought-iron gates, to Ms. Maynard's own dock on the lake, from which she takes her daily swim. On the water, pale blue launches, called lanchas, ferry passengers from village to village. Fishermen drop lines from their cayucas, small wooden dugout boats with upturned prows. 
 It is here, somewhat to her own surprise, that Ms. Maynard spends up to four months a year, writing and running workshops for writers. 
 She had no intention of owning a home in Guatemala when she set out to travel there seven years ago with her daughter, Audrey, who was studying Spanish in a Guatemalan school. On her stone patio one recent morning, a tan Ms. Maynard, wearing a magenta camisole and khaki capris, recalled the conversation that changed the course of her life. ''I said, 'I so envy you, Aud, for getting to be here and study your Spanish,' and she said, 'What's stopping you, Mama?' '' Dramatic pause. ''And I realized, 'Nothing!' '' 
 She had been divorced for over a decade. The youngest of her three children, Will, had just finished high school. Her older son, Charlie, was in college. Her work as a writer required only a laptop. She was supposed to be traveling on to Hawaii, but cashed in her ticket and rented a house for eight months. The longer she stayed, the more certain she became that she had stumbled on the next chapter of her life story. 
 ''For the first half of my life, the big adventure was raising children,'' said Ms. Maynard, 54, author of 11 books, including ''To Die For,'' which was made into the film starring Nicole Kidman, and ''At Home in the World: A Memoir,'' setting the record straight about, among other things, her complicated romantic relationship in the early '70s with J. D. Salinger.
 ''I was writing books, I was having a career, but the biggest adventure was watching them grow and launching them into the world, and they're launched,'' she said, stretching her arms wide with an incredulous laugh. ''I had a bit of a crisis figuring out what could possibly be an adventure after that.'' 
 The adventure turned out to be San Marcos, west of Guatemala City in the central highlands. The village is poor. Its indigenous Maya population of 2,500 lives in one-room pueblos and cooks over open fires. Tiny adobe markets called tiendas stock a few staples. Women in traditional dress sit with baskets along the dirt and cobblestone paths, accepting quetzales, the local currency, for their avocados, potatoes, onions and eggs. 
 About 65 expatriates, half of them Americans, live full time in the town; another 150 come and go. Many have an artistic bent. Ms. Maynard's neighbors include a Czech glass artist; a cabinetmaker originally from North Carolina who started a blues club in town; and the former owner of a record store in Hamburg, Germany, who runs a restaurant and inn with his wife, once a Manhattan social worker. A science professor from Tufts and a writer for The Washington Post live nearby part-time. 
 SOME North Americans and Europeans who visit San Marcos come to study at its Spanish-language school, founded in 2006 as a branch of an established school in another lakeside village. Others are drawn by its reputation as a center for healing and spirituality. The San Marcos Holistic Center, built in 1998, offers classes in yoga, massage and holistic therapies. Las Piramides meditation center, founded in 1991, holds sessions in pyramid-shaped temples, including a moon course, running from full moon to full moon, and a three-month sun course. Its students can stay in pyramid-shaped cabins, but there are also cozy eco-hotels and inns in town, and several good restaurants.
 As she finished writing a book, ''The Usual Rules,'' and learned some Spanish that first year, Ms. Maynard was enchanted by the landscape and the Maya, whom she describes as gentle and generous. She was hooked, in a plot twist she recognized. ''At the very moment I thought I was going to have the saddest, loneliest year of my life,'' she said, ''I had the happiest, richest one.'' 
 She found her house when she passed it on one of her regular swims. She bought it, with the acre of land it sits on, for $85,000 in 2002, a few years after the United Nations oversaw a peace accord to end years of internal conflict in Guatemala. (The State Department still advises travelers there to be cautious.) 
 The main house consists of a kitchen and large bath on the first floor and two rooms upstairs. Although the kitchen is basic, Ms. Maynard cooks there frequently. ''I live pretty much vegetarian when I'm here,'' she said. ''I make stir fries, carrot ginger soup, Key lime pie, fruit tarts with local mango and pineapple,'' for example. She has local electricity and telephone service, and Internet access. The property has its own septic system, and a pump draws water for most uses from the lake. Drinking water comes in large containers from the tiendas. 
 The house has no dining room. ''I try to eat every meal outside,'' Ms. Maynard said, sitting at the wooden table on the patio. ''Even at night, you can eat dinner very happily under the stars.'' An outdoor wood-burning pizza oven received its inaugural firing last month. 
 Up a staircase with gnarled carved-wood handrails, the large master bedroom and a living room that can double as a guest room share a double-sided fireplace. The bedroom has hardwood floors, a cathedral ceiling, wide ceiling beams and doors opening to a balcony that overlooks the lake. Ms. Maynard watches the sun rise over the volcanoes and the stars appear at night. The living room, decked out in eye-popping shades of red, orange and fuchsia, has a nine-foot-long daybed and the same jaw-dropping views. 
 Throughout the house are dozens of brightly colored cotton napkins, tablecloths, cushions, spreads and pillows. ''Most of the textiles in my house used to be worn on a woman's body,'' Ms. Maynard said. ''They were huipils, and every village in Guatemala has a classic design of this garment. I turned a lot of them into pillows. This is a country that really celebrates color and hand work.'' 
 THE hand work extends outside the house, where a tiered garden extends 70 yards up a hill from the patio. It has been seven years in the making and has taken thousands of hours of work by local stonemasons. Ms. Maynard calls herself the ''sponsor'' of the garden; its real visionary, she says, is Bob Miller, 55, a landscape designer originally from Ottawa who lives in nearby Santa Cruz. Ms. Maynard, who calls him ''Canadian Bob,'' met him on a lancha ride when she overheard him speaking knowledgeably about gardens. A two-hour consultation the next day blossomed into a working relationship with no end in sight.
 The garden's terracing and walls interweave, forming a wave pattern, interspersed with rocks bearing carved Maya faces. Mango, papaya, lemon and lime trees flourish, as do begonias, calla lilies, azalea, hibiscus and orchids. Monarch butterflies flutter and hummingbirds hover. Water flows from small ponds, ending with a splash in a waterfall. 
 Elsewhere on the property, Ms. Maynard has added a treehouse with its own bedroom, bath and kitchen, an aerie inspired by the Swiss Family Robinson treehouse at Disneyland. It serves as a guest house and also as her secret spot for serious writing. ''I've written three books here,'' she said, pointing to a small desk in the treehouse, overlooking the water. ''And not one of them has been about Guatemala.'' That's about to change as she embarks on a book about an expatriate woman making her way in a certain Central American country. 
 Ms. Maynard depends on the help of her Maya neighbors for much of what she needs done, especially construction. She offers year-round work and pays fair wages, she said, and also works with groups that aid women and children in the village -- all efforts that help her coexist with the economic disparity between herself and the villagers.
 She has spent about $60,000 in improvements over the years. Her property is worth about $500,000 now, estimates Annika Boerner, owner of Atitlan Visions real estate company. Values have tripled in the last 15 years, Ms. Boerner said. 
 But Ms. Maynard's investment can't be counted in quetzales. Besides having a tropical paradise to enjoy, she can walk down a main street where everyone knows her name and she knows theirs, even if that main street is only a dirt path. 
 ''The kind of adventure that feels richest to me now is sinking my roots -- and the roots of my plants -- and getting to know the people here and the culture here,'' she said. ''That's been my adventure, knowing this one little place.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 28 about the writer Joyce Maynard's second home on Lake Atitlan in Guatemala misstated the name of a real estate company owned by Annika Boerner there. It is Atitlan Vision, not Visions. Ms. Boerner pointed out the error in an e-mail message on June 9. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WATER VIEW: Joyce Maynard, center, at her house near San Marcos La Laguna, in Guatemala, which is on Lake Atitlan, right. Her bedroom, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LECLAIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F5)
GARDEN VIEW: Ms. Maynard calls herself the ''sponsor'' of the tiered gardens, above, designed by a Canadian who lives nearby. The living room, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LECLAIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F5)
 MI CASA: Joyce Maynard in her bedroom at her house near San Marcos La Laguna, Guatemala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL LECLAIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FISHES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); FERRIES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (95%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



695 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: A Tropical Getaway That's Also a Bargain

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
TO get an idea why Culebra is an ideal Caribbean getaway for the bargain-savvy, look no further than the ferry that makes the hour-long trip there from mainland Puerto Rico. It costs $2.25.
 On most other Caribbean islands, about all $2.25 will get you is one of those palm tree magnets with your name on it. 
 As new resorts and high-end developments continue their march across the Caribbean, it is getting ever harder to find a place that hasn't priced out travelers on a budget. But Culebra, a tiny island halfway between St. Thomas and Puerto Rico, still clings hard to its peaceful origins. It's the kind of place where Carnival and Royal Caribbean don't visit, the Four Seasons can't be found, and you really have to work hard to spend more than $200 a night on a hotel room. 
 It is still often bypassed for its more tourist-trodden neighbors like Vieques or the United States Virgin Islands, about 15 miles away. Yet it has all the elements of a great tropical getaway: year-round temperatures in the 80s, a beach for every day of the week and accessibility. Since it's a United States territory -- it's part of Puerto Rico -- you don't need a passport to get there. 
 Direct flights to San Juan from New York -- priced from around $250 for travel next month -- make the island cheaper to get to than some cities in the continental United States. 
 From San Juan, it is about an hour's drive to Fajardo in the northeastern corner of Puerto Rico, where the ferry departs for Culebra. What you'll see when you step off the ferry is one of the Caribbean's last true backwaters. 
 Residents, who call themselves Culebrense, still ride horses to get around, and the local supermarket has just one cash register. A sign tacked to a handicraft vendor's cart that reads ''Open Some Days/Closed Others'' pretty much sums up the island's free-spirited ethos. 
 Because there are no high-priced mega-resorts there, prices on Culebra are not wildly inflated. In the high season, the more expensive rooms run between $100 and $200 a night. Eating is not quite so inexpensive, a result of having to import food from mainland Puerto Rico. But dinner can easily be had for about $20 a person. And with the money saved on lodging and recreation -- all the beaches are free, and excursions like day sails or snorkeling trips can be arranged for a modest price -- overpaying for a mahi mahi filet isn't the end of the world.
 Even if you fly instead of taking the $2.25 ferry, getting there is not expensive. A ticket from San Juan on a local airline like Air Flamenco or Vieques Air Link is about $32 one way. 
 But just because developers have left Culebra alone so far doesn't mean the Culebrense aren't slightly anxious about what the future might hold for their island. On a recent Saturday, a small cruise ship pulled into the harbor and caused quite a stir.
 ''That was really disgusting,'' said Laurie Knowlton, a 47-year-old transplant from New Jersey who has lived on Culebra for a decade. She fell in love with the island in the 1970s, when she was vacationing with her parents. Back then, most of the roads were still dirt, and tourists were few and far between. After trying her hand at a number of odd jobs like folding laundry and making her own hot sauce, she now publishes a local guidebook and runs gotoculebra.com, a Web site that offers information about visiting the island.
 ''That's the beauty of Culebra,'' she said, smiling as she sat at the bar at Mamacita's hotel and restaurant and pondered the unhurried pace of the island, which has only about 2,000 year-round residents. ''We're not a place that has cruise ships, night life.''
 Some development has come to Culebra over the years -- albeit slowly. But a new $45 million, 164-unit development on the harbor and an expansion of one of the island's biggest hotels are making some locals uneasy. 
 ''We don't want big hotels. We don't want big things,'' said George Pena, who is known as Guilin, a 56-year-old captain who grew up on Culebra and makes his living taking tourists out for day trips on his boat. 
 A little bit of development on Culebra is inevitable and good for the island's economy, he said. And the more tourists, of course, the better it is for his business. ''Culebra has to grow a little bit,'' he said.
 Getting aboard a boat like Mr. Pena's may well be the best way of experiencing Culebra, which is about seven miles long and three and a half miles wide. This, too, can be done relatively inexpensively. Mr. Pena charged a friend and me $150 for the entire day -- a fraction of what you would pay for a chartered boat on St. Thomas. Snorkeling gear, which we rented from a local hardware store, was only $10.
 A boat is the only way to reach the beach on Culebrita, a small, uninhabited island off Culebra. On the weekends, it can be jammed with day-trippers from mainland Puerto Rico. But in the middle of the week or in the off-season, you could very likely have the entire half-mile crescent to yourself. And a boat is the easiest way to reach Carlos Rosario Beach, a small, isolated patch of sand on Culebra's northwest side.
 Flamenco Beach on the north side is widely regarded as one of the most beautiful beaches in the Caribbean. In a remote corner on the eastern end of the island lies the very private and very pristine Zoni Beach.
 The hotels on Culebra are small bed-and-breakfast-type inns where, after a day, the entire hotel staff knows your name. Just don't expect them to approach anything with a sense of urgency. At our hotel, the Club Seabourne, we learned that after we went to the front desk looking for someone to call us a taxi. Instead of a person, we found a note with the phone numbers of a few taxi drivers. 
 And the Seabourne is considered one of the island's upscale hotels. Even so, our room was just over $200 a night. 
 If the Caribbean sets its watch by ''island time,'' Culebra could have its own time zone -- island time with a half-hour delay.
 Lisa Mena, 46, a housekeeper at Club Seabourne, has lived on the island for 21 years. After visiting her grandmother, who grew up on Culebra, Ms. Mena was smitten. So she flew back to New Jersey, gave her boss two weeks' notice and moved. At times, she said, she still finds herself laughing at how slowly things seem to move on Culebra. 
 ''This is super slow. It took me a year, maybe two, to get used to it,'' she said with a faint Jersey accent. 
 The little inconveniences of life on Culebra, like having to take the ferry to Fajardo to shop for clothes or the constant crowing of roosters, have grown on her. They're part of the island's charm, she said. Does she ever think about moving back? ''No. N-O.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WET FUN: Playing on the ferry docks in Dewey, on Culebra. The tiny island off Puerto Rico has so far escaped major development. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA MAGRUDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map of Culebra Island in Puerto Rico. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); US TERRITORIES (77%); RESORTS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); BEACHES (72%); WATER SPORTS (60%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



696 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Backers (One Fewer Than Thought) Act to Aid Detroit Mayor

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Supporters of Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who was charged Monday with obstruction of justice, perjury and other felonies, have begun soliciting donations to help him pay for a defense team that promises to be expensive.
 Among the organizers of the new endeavor, the Detroit Justice Fund, are former Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco; Reginald M. Turner Jr., onetime president of the National Bar Association, a leading organization of black lawyers; and local clergymen including the Rev. Horace L. Sheffield III.
 ''Just because people accuse you of things and charge you with things doesn't mean you're guilty,'' Mr. Sheffield said. ''It's a bad economy; people don't have money. But he's a native son, and we need to do everything we can to keep him from going down.'' 
 The fund immediately found itself in the middle of a new controversy, however, when a national television personality who had been listed as one of 12 organizers angrily denied any involvement and joined a growing chorus of people demanding that Mr. Kilpatrick resign. 
 That television figure, Greg Mathis, whose syndicated show, ''Judge Mathis,'' is broadcast weekdays in many markets, is a Detroit native who is retired from the court where Mr. Kilpatrick and Christine Beatty, the mayor's former chief of staff, were arraigned Tuesday. Mr. Mathis issued a statement Thursday saying he had refused to help when contacted by the mayor's office.
 ''I informed him, I support due process, but I could not support him,'' the statement said. ''This is the same type of deceit that has plunged our city into a deep crisis. Not only do I not support him, but I recommend he resign so the city can heal and move forward.'' 
 Mr. Mathis would not comment further when contacted at his Los Angeles office Thursday.
 Mr. Kilpatrick has vowed repeatedly not to step down, though Ms. Beatty resigned as his chief of staff in January, soon after The Detroit Free Press published excerpts from text messages they had sent each other indicating that he was engaged in an extramarital affair with her. The messages, sent on city-issued pagers, contradicted testimony they gave at a whistle-blower trial last summer denying a romantic relationship.
 In the wake of the testimony, Mr. Kilpatrick spent $8.4 million of public money to settle the case and another like it, having learned that a lawyer for one of the plaintiffs had copies of the messages.
 Mr. Kilpatrick, who earns $176,000 a year as mayor, has hired Dan K. Webb, a $700-an-hour Chicago lawyer known for defending high-profile clients, and Judy Smith, a Washington public relations specialist who represented Monica S. Lewinsky.
 The new fund's Web site, www.detroitjusticefund.com, features a picture of Mr. Kilpatrick and his wife, and a link for electronic donations. An early version of the site, accessible briefly on Wednesday evening, criticized the Wayne County prosecutor, Kym L. Worthy, who spent two months investigating Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty before filing charges against them Monday.
 ''Perhaps it's because Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick has brought such unprecedented change and reform to our city that some feel threatened by his leadership and will go to any lengths to remove him from office,'' the site said.
 That language was gone by Thursday.
 Many of Mr. Kilpatrick's longtime allies have remained loyal to him. A group of 60 ministers spoke out in support of him this week.
 ''I don't abandon people in difficult times,'' Mr. Sheffield said Thursday. ''There are many people who have political motivations and who enjoy kicking people when they're down. This is a time that he needs support.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who is charged with perjury and other felonies, gathered Thursday to hear him speak at a Detroit church, the Shrine of the Black Madonna.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (79%); DUE PROCESS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (70%); TEXT MESSAGING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BAR ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



697 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HIGH & LOW ALLEGHENY RIVER VIEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Reclaiming Space on the Water's Edge

BYLINE: By BETHANY LYTTLE

 BODY:
ABOUT 160 miles separate the town of Warren, Pa., from the big city of Pittsburgh, but the two places have something powerful in common: the Allegheny River, a scenic waterway that meanders for 325 miles after rising near Coudersport in northern Pennsylvania. 
 Unfortunately, for residents of Pittsburgh and Warren, the river has long been obscured by commercial and industrial development. 
 Now, thanks to downtown riverfront renewal projects, this is changing. In both places, residents (and real estate agents) are reclaiming views of the Allegheny River.
 Warren, a quaint town with a population of about 10,000, is nestled in the curve of the Allegheny toward the northwest corner of Pennsylvania. There, a $60 million program called the Impact Warren Project is giving rise to new condominiums and retail space directly on the river. And the Warren Main Street program is reviving the historic street's original architecture and style, while promoting economic development. 
 ''Boomers and retirees want to live somewhere beautiful, but they don't want to have to drive to get to services and shops,'' said Chris Cheronis, manager of the Main Street Program. 
 Tony Siliano, owner of Coleen Christy GMAC Realty, said the new condominium development, Breeze Point Circle, is the first of its kind on the river in Warren and was attracting interest even before its completion late last year. Buyers can choose a one-bedroom unit with river views for as little as $149,000. 
 ''The market here is a steady one,'' he said. ''We don't see a dramatic appreciation in homes like the rest of the country, but we don't see the downturns, either. And we don't have a glut of housing.'' 
 Single-family houses on the river near Warren range from about $50,000 for a cabin with no electricity, up to around $400,000, Mr. Siliano said. 
 In Pittsburgh, efforts to spur development of riverfront residential housing include programs to convert vacant commercial buildings into rental apartments. ''We have programs to help property owners,'' said Hollie Plevyak, vice president of marketing and communications at the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership. ''The goal is to make it easy to make this a great place to live.'' 
 Approximately 4,000 residents call downtown Pittsburgh home, and this number is expected to reach 6,000 within two years. And while the Gateway Towers was, for decades, the only place to live with river views, there is now another high-rise condominium building and several other condo conversions in what were once riverfront commercial buildings. In addition, earlier this month, after 14 years without one, the first supermarket opened in the neighborhood. ''This is a milestone,'' Ms. Plevyak said. ''It makes the neighborhood a more viable place to live.'' She noted that even with increased residential housing options, the downtown vacancy rate for the past few years has remained constant. ''When places come on the market, they're snatched up,'' she said. 
 High
 For decades, this 20-story apartment building, which was built in 1966, was one of the only residential buildings overlooking the Allegheny River in downtown Pittsburgh. Now it is attracting a new generation of baby boomers and retirees who want to live in a walkable downtown area close to the river. This 3,800-square-foot unit (originally three apartments that were merged into one large living space) is on the 10th floor. It has walls of windows with unobstructed views of the river, Point State Park and the stadiums at PNC Park and Heinz Field. The apartment, which is being offered fully furnished, has stone and cork flooring and wall-to-wall carpeting in the bedrooms. Countertops are marble, glass and poured concrete. At the unit's center is a glass bar with a built-in icemaker and wine cooler from which there are views in three directions. The apartment has commercial-grade appliances, including a washer and dryer. There are two and a half bathrooms. Building amenities include a fitness room, a billiards room, a library and a party room. Condo fees: $1,800 a month. Agent: Linda DiBucci, Coldwell Banker -- Hampton, (412) 487-0500; www.pittsburghmoves.com.
 Low
 Situated on the banks of the Allegheny River in downtown Warren, Breeze Point Circle is part of the first phase of residential construction downtown along the river. These units were completed late in 2007. Until now, riverfront properties in Warren have tended to be commercial. Residential housing is located mostly three to five blocks away in the town's historic district. (Such homes usually list for $200,000 to $300,000.) This three-story condominium is one of 24 units in two buildings and has 2,080 square feet of living space. All of the rooms at the front have unobstructed views of the Allegheny River. The condominium has basic finishes, but buyers can pay for upgrades. The unit has two and a half bathrooms. It has a balcony overlooking the river with views of a lighted walkway that runs along the water. Shops, restaurants and a new arts center are all within walking distance. The building has geothermal heat and central air conditioning. One outdoor parking space is included. Condo fee: $160 a month. Agent: Melina King, Coleen Christy GMAC Realty, (814) 723-3910; www.coleenchristygmac.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: WATER'S EDGE SOFTWARE (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



698 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Finally, a Vision for the West Side

 BODY:
For years, politicians, planners and business leaders have failed to come up with a workable plan for developing Hudson Yards on Manhattan's Far West Side -- the largest swath of underused land on the island. 
 Economically dubious, and environmentally disastrous, proposals to build football and baseball stadiums were rejected -- thankfully. Now the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has tentatively approved a plan from Tishman Speyer, a real estate operator, that would build commercial offices and housing along with green space on what is now mostly industrial wasteland. 
 Details must still be worked out, including assurances that there would be public access to parks and the river. There will be land-use and environmental studies, and the City Council will have to rezone half of the acreage. Already there is one glaring weakness: the shorting of affordable housing. The builders are talking about devoting only 10 percent of the residential units to affordable housing. That's not enough, and the Council should press for more, perhaps for 20 percent. 
 The 26-acre parcel overlooking the Hudson River, predominantly railyards owned by the state-run M.T.A., needs to be developed. If done right, the project would eventually produce tax revenues for the city and add another great community to New York. It would also generate much-needed revenue for the cash-squeezed M.T.A. To lease development rights for 99 years, Tishman Speyer will pay about $1 billion in current dollars, according to the transportation authority. That sum exceeded most expectations.
 The transformation won't happen overnight, especially during an economic downturn. As the proposal evolves, the City Council will play an especially important role to ensure that the end result contributes to a vital neighborhood. Beyond pressing for more affordable residences, the Council must fight to preserve all of the High Line, the 1.5-mile stretch of elevated railway that is being transformed into a green jewel of public space. 
 The M.T.A., we are pleased to say, conducted a real bidding process. That was a refreshing change from years past when it looked as though the yards might be given away in a back-room deal. It would take a lot more vigilance and transparency to ensure that the new Hudson Yards work for all New Yorkers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); BASEBALL (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



699 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Station Plan Put in Doubt As Garden Opts to Stay

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The dream of transforming Pennsylvania Station and creating a new financial district around it suffered a potentially fatal blow on Thursday when the owners of Madison Square Garden announced that they would renovate the 40-year-old arena instead of moving to a new location a block away. 
 The Garden sits over Penn Station, the nation's busiest rail hub, where 550,000 passengers a day make their way through cramped, crowded and sometimes bewildering corridors. Demolishing the aging, drum-shaped arena is crucial to building a new station and opening up its platforms and waiting rooms to daylight, as advocates of the plan have envisioned. 
 Proponents of the new station denounced the Garden's decision and the family that controls the arena, the Dolans. Some city and state officials were also critical, calling the announcement a ploy to improve the Garden's bargaining position. But they declined to comment publicly in the hope of persuading the Garden to rejoin the project. 
 City and state officials and many of the city's civic organizations have been captivated by the three-year-old, $14 billion proposal to a build a grand new train station by moving the Garden to its fifth home in 134 years. But the project, which proponents described as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, has been hobbled by a softening economy, logistical problems, political inertia and a shortfall in public financing.
 The Garden, which agreed to explore a move after announcing a major renovation in 2004, has grown increasingly impatient over the lack of progress and the sniping by preservationists critical of their designs for a new arena at the landmark James A. Farley Post Office, across Eighth Avenue from Penn Station and the current garden.
 ''Madison Square Garden has decided to move forward with our renovation,'' officials with the Garden said in a statement Thursday afternoon. ''After exploring several alternatives, it has become clear that the only viable option is a renovation.''
 The current Garden, home to the Rangers and the Knicks, is the second-oldest arena in the National Hockey League and the National Basketball Association, according to Garden executives.
 The announcement came on the same day that Senator Charles E. Schumer called on the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to rescue the faltering project with up to $2 billion in transportation funds. His suggestion was immediately embraced by the Port Authority. Aides to Gov. David A. Paterson welcomed the participation of the Port Authority but stopped short of saying the state would hand off the project. The new governor is concerned about the extent of public financing, the aides said.
 Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, which has been supportive of the project but critical of the design for the new arena, said the Dolans had chosen an ''extremely peculiar'' moment to make their announcement, just when it appeared that the project's financial problems were getting resolved.
 ''It's insulting to everybody,'' Mr. Barwick said of the Garden announcement. ''This is the most significant project on the horizon for the city of New York. There's no other transportation project that has so much promise to not only strengthen the transportation system but to spark development in a new section of town.''
 City Council President Christine C. Quinn went further, saying the Garden's announcement ''demonstrates a callous disregard for both the future of the Moynihan Station project and the future of New York City.''
 She also hinted that the Garden's plans to renovate, which will require city approval, could run into difficulty.
 Barry Watkins, a spokesman for the Garden, said the Farley project could proceed without the arena relocating. ''We fail to understand why Ms. Quinn would not want to help us deliver a renovated arena to our more than four million annual fans, most of them New Yorkers,'' he said.
 Amtrak, which owns Penn Station, urged the Garden, which is owned by Cablevision, the cable television company controlled by the Dolan family, to come back to the table.
 The Garden's ostensible partners, a joint venture of Stephen M. Ross of the Related Companies and Steven Roth of Vornado Realty Trust, reacted diplomatically, saying they understood the Garden's frustration with the lack of progress.
 But Vishaan Chakrabarti, a senior executive with the developers, said that they remained ''committed'' to the project and had ''every faith that our city, state and federal leadership will enable this project to become a reality for all New Yorkers.''
 The project began in the 1990s, when Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan first recommended that the Farley Post Office, which also sits over the train tracks, be converted into an elegant adjunct to Penn Station. In 2005, the state selected Mr. Ross and Mr. Roth to do the project and assembled much of the funding.
 The developers soon persuaded Garden officials to consider moving to the Farley building so that they could demolish the old arena and build a train station and a set of skyscrapers in the surrounding neighborhood.
 The cost of building a new Penn Station, however, soared to almost $3 billion, from the developer's original $1 billion estimate. The developers agreed to invest $550 million, while the city and the state each agreed to contribute $300 million. They had sought with little success to get the rest of the money from the federal government.
 Tiring of the obstacles, both the developers and the Garden sought last December to give the project one final push. Some officials then tried to get the Port Authority involved because it had both the money and the expertise to do the job. 
 Yesterday, Mr. Schumer said: ''It makes eminent sense for P.A. to do this. They have the resources that could help make it happen.'' And Anthony Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority, seemed to agree, at least until the Garden announced that it was not moving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); TRAINS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); BASKETBALL (66%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



700 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Job Total Dips in State, But the City Gains a Bit

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; David Staba contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The number of jobs in New York State dipped in February, a sign that the state, like the nation, may be heading into a recession. But the jobs numbers in New York City, moving counter to that trend, increased slightly last month.
 According to the state's Department of Labor, jobs statewide, adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, declined last month about 7,000 to 7.27 million. That was the first month-to-month decline since last summer, and it came as economists watched for signs that turmoil in the financial markets may have halted a 4 1/2-year expansion fueled by a boom in New York City. 
 The slowdown in the national economy has not yet been formally declared a recession by economic researchers, but Gov. David A. Paterson has said that New York is in one. Economists said Thursday that conditions in the city and the state were likely to grow worse in the coming months as the effects of the slumping housing market caught up with this region. 
 ''It's obvious that there's a sharp slowing under way,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute in Manhattan. ''It's pretty broadly felt. It's showing up in construction, in the finance sector, in professional services.''
 The only industries still adding jobs in both the city and state are education, health care and social services, Mr. Parrott said. New claims for unemployment insurance benefits have begun to rise, he added.
 Still, despite a rising number of layoffs on Wall Street, the data do not yet show an employment downturn in the city. The number of jobs in the city, which is not adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, actually rose by 13,800 in February, a gain that was smaller than average, the Labor Department reported.
 The city unemployment rate in February, seasonally adjusted, dropped to 4.1 percent from 5.7 percent in January. The state unemployment rate dropped to 4.5 percent from 5 percent in January.
 Those figures contradicted the news from Wall Street, where one large investment bank, Bear Stearns, had to be rescued from bankruptcy this month and others, including Lehman Brothers and Citigroup, have said they will cut thousands of jobs.
 James Brown, an analyst with the Labor Department, said there was usually a long lag between the announcement of cutbacks on Wall Street and their appearance in the official employment data. Lehman Brothers' recent announcement of job cuts will not take effect until May, he said. 
 ''At this point, the numbers are behind the news,'' Mr. Brown said. ''The overall city economy, you would have to expect, is going to weaken. We've been through these large-scale downturns in the financial industry before. They tend to run in the tens of thousands of layoffs.''
 Trends in job data for the city can change readily because they derive from a relatively small sample. The sharp drop in the unemployment rate in February followed a sharp rise in January and may have been affected by a decline in the number of unemployed people who were actively looking for jobs, Mr. Brown said.
 In general, Mr. Brown said, the jobless rate has been climbing ''slowly but steadily'' since the summer.
 In contrast to the big banks in the city, several employers in different industries around the state said on Thursday that they had not been cutting back, nor had they detected a drop in consumer demand.
 ''From our perspective, things have never been better,'' said Barry Prevor, an executive of Steve & Barry's, a discount clothing store chain based in Port Washington, N.Y. He said the company, which sells athletic shoes for as little as $9 a pair, opened two stores in the state in the last two weeks and now has 262 around the country.
 While traveling upstate this month, he saw that ''there's definitely a lot of people going through challenging economic times,'' Mr. Prevor said. He said that the tightening of credit markets was palpable, but that his company had recently lined up a $197 million line of credit through a division of General Electric that would allow it to continue its growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



701 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2155 words

HEADLINE: Art

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'DESIGNED FOR PLEASURE: THE WORLD OF EDO JAPAN IN PRINTS AND PAINTINGS, 1680-1860,' through May 4. Organized by the Japanese Art Society, this show anchors the ''floating world'' of ukiyo-e prints firmly in economic and social reality. It includes works by well-known artists, including Hokusai and Hiroshige, and emphasizes the entrepreneurial role of print publishers and the relationship between printmaking, painting and literature in the Edo period. Because the prints are sensitive to light, ''Designed for Pleasure'' will be shown in two installments. Of the 148 works in the exhibition, 95 are currently on view; about two-thirds of those will be rotated out on April 4. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org.
 (Karen Rosenberg) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM : 'UTAGAWA: MASTERS OF THE JAPANESE PRINT, 1770-1900,' through June 15. This fascinating show tells the story of a group of artists that dominated the woodblock print business in Japan for much of the 19th century. Not everything in it is a masterpiece, but among its 95 prints are stunning portraits of actors, geishas and warriors; colorful retellings of old myths; views of contemporary urban life; and gorgeous, poetically captivating landscapes. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 
 (Ken Johnson)
 THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'PARMIGIANINO'S ''ANTEA'': A BEAUTIFUL ARTIFICE,' through April 27. Exhibitions don't come any smaller than ''Parmigianino's 'Antea': A Beautiful Artifice.'' A painting, a wall text, a nugget of a scholarly catalog, and that's it. It's enough. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. 
 (Holland Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. 
 (Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (See above.) 
 (Cotter) 
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART : 'COLOR CHART: REINVENTING COLOR, 1950 TO TODAY,' through May 12. Organized by Ann Temkin, a curator in the museum's department of painting and sculpture, color functions as a ready-made in ''Color Chart'' -- something to be bought or appropriated, rather than mixed on a palette. The show is a rejoinder to the notion of color as the province of formalists, and to the idea that Minimal and Conceptual art comes only in shades of black, white and gray. In the upper section of the lobby a floor created by the artist Jim Lambie surrounds concentric strips of brightly hued tape. In the galleries there are postwar classics by Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Rauschenberg and Sherrie Levine. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. 
 (Rosenberg)
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES LIBRARY: 'MONUMENTAL FRANCE: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDOUARD BALDUS' AND SKETCHES ON GLASS: CLICHES-VERRE FROM THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY,' through June 28. This pair of exhibitions focuses on the experimental period after the birth of photography (the 1850s through the 1870s). Film had not yet been invented, but glass-plate and paper negatives allowed artists to micromanage the camera's performance or to bypass it entirely. ''Monumental France'' gathers 38 artisanal prints of French architectural landmarks. ''Sketches on Glass'' presents prints made with hand-drawn glass plates on light-sensitive paper (no camera required). Together these shows reveal that artists in mid-19th-century France blurred the distinction between the photograph and the unique object. Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 930-0830, nypl.org. (Rosenberg)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART : 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008,' through June 1. This year's show takes lowered expectations -- lessness, ephemerality and failure, to use the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin -- as its theme, and makes at least an appearance of trying to circumvent an object-obsessed market. With 81 artists, this is the smallest Biennial in a while, and feels that way, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum, and continues at the Park Avenue Armory (at 67th Street), with a program of installation and performance art. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'WINE, WORSHIP AND SACRIFICE: THE GOLDEN GRAVES OF ANCIENT VANI' In small but elegant new galleries, a study center founded in 2006 under the auspices of New York University presents its inaugural exhibition. This show offers more than 100 objects unearthed from ancient graves in Vani, a cosmopolitan city established in Colchis -- modern-day Georgia -- in the eighth century B.C. It includes beautiful, intricate gold jewelry discovered in grave sites of the rich and powerful; the life-size bronze torso of a youth made in classic Hellenistic style; and two strikingly exotic bronze lamps with functional parts in the form of elephant heads. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, (212) 992-7810, nyu.edu/isaw, through June 1. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 JEAN ROYeRE Organized by two Parisian galleries, Patrick Seguin and Jacques Lacoste, this exhibition provides New Yorkers with a rare in-depth look at the work of Jean Royere (1902-1981). It includes 100 objects presented in plausible if free-flowing domestic arrangements designed by India Mahdavi and demonstrates the timeless appeal of this French master's fusion of Art Deco streamlining with the organic forms of the 1950s. Sonnabend Gallery, 536 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-1018, through April 12. (Roberta Smith) 
 Galleries: Other
 'DIEBENKORN IN NEW MEXICO' In graduate school in Albuquerque at the beginning of the 1950s, Richard Diebenkorn put his own spin on the drawing-painting fusion of Willem de Kooning's black-and-white paintings, interjecting an elegant, waggish sense of line borrowed from George Herriman's Krazy Kat cartoons, along with brushy, glowing layers of color. He would later go on to make grander, more complex works, but in many ways his painting was never freer, less predictable or more full of the future than in New Mexico. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through April 5. (Smith) 
 Last Chance
 DIANA COOPER: 'OVERDRIVE' Over the years this artist's obsessive doodling has reached three-dimensions by various routes. Here, all red, it covers the stepped interior of an imposing sculpture resembling a ziggurat turned on its side. The doodling generates relief-like drawings in paper, vinyl and pins. But it also goes beyond that in ''Orange Alert UK,'' a room-size installation where regimented stripes suggest exploded walls. This apocalyptic romper room achieves a better balance between making and thinking, and process and meaning. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 MALE: WORK FROM THE COLLECTION OF VINCE ALETTI A discerning collector with an impressive resume (critic, curator, editor) and no budget to speak of tellingly installs a sampling of his holdings, mostly photographs. His single focus -- the male face and body -- is elaborated in photographs and a few watercolors that range through portraiture, erotic and pornographic images and high points of photojournalism. It is a splendid mediation on integrity of personal taste and the variety of beauty, love and sexual attraction. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 924-4212; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 BRUCE NAUMAN: 'DRAWINGS FOR INSTALLATIONS' Ask almost anyone for a short list of the most influential contemporary artists, and Bruce Nauman's name will be there. This survey of drawings related to his architecturally scaled installations ranging from 1968 to the present suggests why. Some of the drawings are preliminary sketches for later completed projects. Others are second-thought variations made after a piece was done. Still others -- a series of studies for underground installations -- are hard-core conceptual projects realized only on paper. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'UNMONUMENTAL: THE OBJECT IN THE 21ST CENTURY,' through March 30. The New Museum has eked as much exhibition space as possible out of its new building and is devoting almost all of it to a raucous, polemical first show. The premise, as reflected in the work of 30 artists (among them, Rachel Harrison, Isa Genzken, Eliot Hundley, Carol Bove, Jock Bock and Sarah Lucas), is that assemblage sculpture is the most viable art form of the moment. Lo-tech, cheap, portable and rough around the edges if not actually falling apart, it reflects our fractured times and also resists easy absorption by the art market. At 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith) 
 MANFRED PERNICE: 'DIARY' The abject formalism that is rife in the 2008 Whitney Biennial and unanimous in the multilayered ''Unmonumental'' at the New Museum of Contemporary Art owes much to this German artist. His fourth gallery solo in New York continues his elevation of the nondescript and his sly deprecation of the conventions of display. The pedestal-like pieces, made mostly from chipboard and mounted on fit-together platforms, suggest a low-tech model for a city.. Anton Kern Gallery, 532 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 367-9663, antonkerngallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 STERLING RUBY: 'KILN WORKS' This Los Angeles artist usually spreads his talents among multiple mediums, making this the first show devoted exclusively to his obstreperous, richly glazed ceramic vessels. Walking the fine line between decoration and tragedy, they suggest charred remains; small, rather grotesque votive objects; or Neolithic precursors to everyday objects like a child's car seat or a football helmet. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7100; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 ANDY WARHOL: 'DRAWINGS'These drawings from the 1950s are only tangentially related to his thriving commercial-art career. They show him experimenting with handmade repetition (achieved through blotting) and marbleized backgrounds; exploring uses for his growing photography archive (with Darger-like results); and veering between romantic and erotic love. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 ANDRO WEKUA: 'BLUE MIRROR' The beautiful if overlong video at the center of this exhibition builds on the set-up photography of early 1980s appropriation art, juxtaposing modernist calm with life's turbulence in a promising way. But it fails to pull together the assortment of complacent sculptures, collages and paintings that make this show seem so adolescent and unanchored. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300; closes on Saturday. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); DOGS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); BITES & STINGS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



702 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: A Sinking Feeling, Led by Tech Shares

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street sank in volatile trading Thursday after the government confirmed a sharp economic slowdown in the last quarter of 2007. For the second consecutive session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell by more than 100 points. 
 The technology sector was particularly weak after the business software maker Oracle posted worse-than-expected fiscal third-quarter sales and issued a cautious forecast. Data suggesting that Google's revenue from Internet users' clicks could slow also raised worries about tech stocks.
 Oracle fell $1.51, or 7.2 percent, to $19.43, and Google dropped $14.11, or 3.1 percent, to $444.08.
 Financial stocks lost ground Thursday as well, but the sense of panic that emanated from the near collapse of Bear Stearns at the start of last week appeared to have eased. On Thursday afternoon, the Federal Reserve auctioned off $75 billion in credit to investment banks, finding solid demand but not the desperation that some investors had feared.
 ''G.D.P. was in line, so we're still expanding, even though we're expanding at a very small rate,'' said David Rovelli, managing director for United States equity trading at Canaccord Adams. ''It's definitely a different mind-set than it was two weeks ago. A lot of smart people are telling us to buy on the dips. I think we'll be fine as long as there is not another Bear Stearns out there.''
 The Dow fell 120.40 points, or 0.97 percent, to 12,302.46.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 15.37 points, or 1.15 percent, to 1,325.76, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 43.53, or 1.87 percent, to 2,280.83.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 9.72, or 1.38 percent, to 692.39.
 Light, sweet crude rose $1.68 to $107.58 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange as investors grew uneasy about Iraqi oil output after an important pipeline in that country was bombed.
 George Shipp, chief investment officer at Scott & Stringfellow, said investors generally remained uneasy about the possibility of further troubles in the financial sector.
 ''It's hard to imagine there is going to be any good news. The question is whether it's been discounted,'' he said, referring to another round of potentially weak results from big banks in the coming months. ''The market is groping for a bottom.''
 Stocks in the home builder sector advanced Thursday after a better-than-expected snapshot of the business. The Lennar Corporation said it swung to a loss in the first quarter as it faced a write-down of asset values, but its results after stripping out certain items were better than Wall Street had forecast and helped bolster shares of home builders.
 Lennar rose 31 cents, to $17.90. KB Home advanced 25 cents, to $25.79, while D. R. Horton rose 33 cents, to $15.53.
 Bond prices fell. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to 99 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 3.53 percent from 3.46 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auctions for five-year notes and 15-day cash management bills: 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Graph showing the Dow Jones industrial average. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (57%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); GOOGLE INC (85%); LENNAR CORP (80%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); LEN (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (80%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



703 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'RE-ORIENTATIONS'; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: When the Islamic World Was Inspired by the West

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Sometimes in the history of art everything seems to be happening everywhere, all at once. The 16th century was like that. It was a grand global burst of lights. The Ming dynasty in China; the Renaissance in Europe; Islamic empires in India, Iran and Turkey were all burning at high incandescence. Visitors traveled from one to another, buying, selling, making plans, taking notes, amazed.
 Then, as also happens, there were slowdowns; dimmings, even blackouts here and there. Such shifts in energy form the background to ''Re-Orientations: Islamic Art and the West in the 18th and 19th Centuries,'' a superb small scholarly show, one as revealing of the past as it is germane to the present, at the Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery at Hunter College. 
 The show is notable for several reasons. First, it tackles a little-studied subject. We've had major exhibitions on the influence of Islamic culture on Europe. We've had relatively few that trace influence the other way, Occident to Orient. (''Royal Persian Painting: the Qajar Epoch, 1785-1925'' at the Brooklyn Museum a decade ago was a stellar exception.) 
 Possibly because ''Occidentalized'' sounds unexotic, 18th- and 19th-century Islamic art has been largely ignored. Few of the 30 small decorative objects at Hunter have been exhibited before, though all are from the collection of a major museum.
 Which brings us to another -- some might say the primary -- attraction of the show. The owning institution is the Metropolitan Museum, where the Islamic galleries are closed for renovation. This Hunter show, unassuming as it is, is by default the largest display of the Met's Islamic collection in the city. 
 ''Re-Orientations'' is actually the offshoot of a larger project: a yearlong seminar led by Ulku U. Bates, professor of Islamic art at Hunter, using material in the Met holdings to examine the early effects of Western modernism on Islamic cultures, its impact kicking in at different times in different places. 
 Western art styles were current in the Mughal court of India in the 16th century, through the circulation of European prints brought by Christian missionaries. Similar influences took root in Iran. A late-17th-century lacquered pen box, the show's earliest piece, is painted with Persian roses on the outside and a European-style landscape under the lid. And by this time Ottoman Turkey had also come under the aggressive spell of Western culture. 
 The Ottoman empire was a superpower, controlling world trade, claiming European land as its own, and as late as 1683, sending an army to the very gates of Vienna. Europe, meanwhile, though nervous, was not passive. In the fields of science, economics and industry, it was surging ahead, becoming modern, while Islamic powers were falling behind. 
 Among other things, the ancient machinery of Islamic imperial government had become a lead weight. Secular and religious impulses were in stalemate. By comparison Europe was light on its feet, adaptable to quick, opportunistic change. Gradually, through a combination of dazzle and muscle, it gained the upper hand, and then pressed down hard, and kept pressing down, with a demeaning colonial force that remains a bitter memory in the Islamic world. 
 On the positive side, though, there was the refreshment of aesthetic exchange. Europeans were hungry for Islamic objects and styles. Islamic cultures welcomed input from Europe. The lure of exoticism pulled in both directions.
 This is immediately evident in the adoption of oil painting, a European invention, by Islamic artists. Qajar court painters of Persia made spectacular use of it in life-size royal portraits. The sloe-eyed, androgynous youth holding a wine glass in a painting in the show may or may not be royalty, but he is a fine example of a Qajar type.
 Islamic artists borrowed themes and styles in addition to Western art mediums. The flowers and birds on a double-page 19th-century album cover from India are Islamic in their patterning, European in their naturalism. A cobalt-blue cut-glass beaker was probably exported from Europe to Iran, then customized on arrival with the addition of a calligraphic inscription in gold. 
 An elaborate Qajar miniature, one in quasi-Baroque style, of Abraham sacrificing Isaac would appear to be geared to a Western market, but not necessarily. This biblical episode depicted is also in the Koran. In a 19th-century Qajar album painting of two lovers in a landscape, the figure of the reclining woman, her body exposed, may well derive from a Western image -- possibly photographic -- of a Persian odalisque, here recast for Persian eyes. Orientalism meets Occidentalism, in twisty ways. 
 Most of the show is about exactly such blending. And even when the objects are less than spectacular -- Hunter could borrow only modest items, nothing requiring special climate control or heavy insurance -- they are rich with information. And it is information of continuing pertinence. The tensions that modernism produced in the Islamic world -- between tradition and innovation, sacred and profane -- have been pushed to the point of explosion by the aggressive marketing of Western values globally in the present. Seen in that perspective, every object in the show seems to tick with a volatile history. 
 The lineaments of that history are laid out in superb essays by Ms. Bates and Stefano Carboni, curator of Islamic art at the Met, in a catalog that makes a signal contribution to the field of Islamic studies and enhanced by contributions from the 15 students from Hunter College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York who worked on the project. 
 Three of them -- Mitra M. Abbaspour, Stephanie Fabre and Karen Zonis -- are doctoral candidates. I will be on the lookout for their names in future projects. If they take this quiet but intensely charged show as a template, and Ms. Bates as a scholarly model, they can only do brilliantly.
 ''Re-Orientations: Islamic Art and the West in the 18th and 19th Centuries'' is at the Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery at Hunter College, 68th Street and Lexington Avenue, through April 26. (212) 772-4991, hunter.cuny.edu. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a cut-glass beaker (1814) was sent unadorned to Iran from Bohemia, where the glass was decorated. At left, a 19th-century portrait of a young man from Iran's Qajar period. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)(pg. E34)
 RE-ORIENTATIONS: A swan-neck bottle from Iran in the show at Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery at Hunter College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) (pg. E29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CITY LIFE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); INDIA (93%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



704 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Sells a Corporate Credit Unit to American Express

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
American Express said Thursday that it would acquire Corporate Payment Services, a commercial credit card and corporate purchasing business, from General Electric for $1.1 billion.
 The acquisition is American Express's latest effort to bulk up its corporate payments business, seen as a relatively stable earnings generator and less prone to recession than consumer credit card lending. 
 American Express said in January that customer spending slowed in December, a trend it expected would continue. The company also said it was building reserves as expected credit losses rise.
 Corporate Payment Services has more than 300 large clients, which tend to pay off their balances in full at the end of each month. The largest customer is G.E., which agreed to become a client of American Express for several years.
 G.E. is selling the business as a step to prepare for the company's planned exit from the private-label credit card business, a spokesman said. G.E. executives said in December that they intended to possibly sell off $30 billion to $50 billion of assets related to that business.
 Corporate Payment Services, part of the G.E. Money unit of G.E., handled more than $14 billion in purchases worldwide last year, and extended $1.1 billion in loans. The company has about 350 employees, based largely in Salt Lake City.
 Separately, Santander of Spain said Thursday that it was selling its Italian corporate banking arm, Interbanca, to General Electric in exchange for consumer finance units in a deal worth 1 billion euros (roughly $1.6 billion).
 Santander said it would acquire G.E. Money's units in Germany, Finland and Austria as well as its card and auto-financing businesses in Britain.
 Santander picked up Interbanca in a three-way bid for ABN Amro last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (68%); EURO (66%)

COMPANY: HOME CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (54%)

TICKER: HCG (TSX) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (92%); SANT (LIS) (91%); SANT (BIT) (91%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (91%); SAN (NYSE) (91%); SAN (MCE) (91%); SAN (BMV) (91%); BNC (LSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (66%); SPAIN (52%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



705 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: China Law Could Impede Microsoft Deal for Yahoo

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Microsoft's hostile-takeover attempt against Yahoo may encounter an unexpected hurdle in August after a Chinese antimonopoly law takes effect that will extend the nation's economic influence far beyond its borders.
 The law, which goes into effect on Aug. 1, is intended to strengthen an existing set of antitrust regulations the Chinese originally established in 1993. It will make China a third sphere of regulatory influence, matching the power of the European Union and the United States, according to legal specialists in this country and in China who have studied it.
 Formally enacted by the National People's Congress last year, the measure gives Chinese regulators authority to examine foreign mergers when they involve acquisitions of Chinese companies or foreign businesses investing in Chinese companies' operations. Beijing could also consider national security issues, according to a report by the official news agency Xinhua. 
 The law could give China influence in Microsoft's courtship of Yahoo because in August 2005, Yahoo, a premier search portal, invested $1 billion in Alibaba.com, China's largest e-commerce business. The investment gave Yahoo about a 40 percent stake in the Chinese company. Alibaba officials have said they believe that a Microsoft takeover of Yahoo would set in motion a buyback provision, making it possible for them to gain independence from Microsoft.
 Nathan G. Bush, an antitrust law specialist with O'Melveny & Myers in Beijing, said the law represented the ascendance of China ''as another regulatory capital contending for influence with Brussels and Washington.''
 ''Multinational corporations will need to develop strategies for all the markets they operate in,'' he added, ''and China is a big market.''
 Whether China would seek to review a Microsoft acquisition, and what kind of posture it might take, would be closely watched by regulators and global companies as an indication whether it will play a conciliatory or a nationalistic role on the world stage.
 ''I don't think anyone has worked through the issue of where an Internet merger should be reviewed, given that it truly is a World Wide Web,'' said Andrew I. Gavil, a law professor at Howard University. 
 There are potentially dozens of jurisdictions that could claim oversight in such a deal because of the global business interests of the two huge companies and because it could potentially transform the Internet into two megaportals, Google and Microsoft. Other parts of the world that might have an active interest in the outcome of a merger include South Korea, a vibrant Internet economy where an antitrust investigation into Microsoft was previously opened.
 Executives at Microsoft and Yahoo declined to comment on the possible effect of the new Chinese law. In rejecting Microsoft's takeover bid in January, Yahoo's chief executive, Jerry Yang, said in a letter to employees that the offer substantially undervalued the company, in part because of the significant growth potential of the Alibaba business in China.
 The issue of whether the Beijing authorities will harmonize the law with foreign antitrust laws or use it to fire a shot across the bow of global businesses was sharpened last week after an effort by Huawei Technologies to invest in 3Com collapsed in the face of national security concerns in Washington.
 The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States had examined the purchase, through which Huawei would have gained a stake in 3Com. The American company's Tipping Point subsidiary makes Internet intrusion-detection software, a technology that the United States maintains has national security implications.
 Before the attempted investment fell apart, senior Chinese officials were quoted as saying they thought that the deal did not have national security implications, and that American regulatory efforts were a cover for protectionist trade practices.
 National security has played a role in other attempted deals involving Chinese companies. In 2005, the Chinese National Offshore Oil Corporation made a high bid to acquire Unocal, leading to a vote in the House of Representatives to block the deal. Soon afterward, the Chinese company, known as Cnooc, withdrew its bid and Unocal was acquired by Chevron. 
 In the case of the proposed Microsoft-Yahoo transaction, the Chinese have in recent years become more and more alert to the role the Internet plays in their economic and political affairs. 
 Last week, a vice minister in the State Council Information Office, which oversees the Internet, said there were 230 million Chinese users of the Internet. He said the Internet sector accounted for 7 percent of the country's gross domestic product, and he expected that to rise to 15 percent in three to four years, according to a Reuters report.
 The official, Cai Mingzhao, warned that foreigners should not use the Internet to interfere in Chinese internal matters, according to a report in The Guardian.
 Even if the Chinese government did not try to prevent a takeover by Microsoft, a prolonged review could substantially damage the value of the business, a number of Internet industry executives said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MERGERS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (83%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



706 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Details Premium Cap In Health Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said in an interview on Wednesday that if elected president she would push for a universal health care plan that would limit what Americans pay for health insurance to no more than 10 percent of their income, a significant reduction for some families. 
 In an extensive interview on health policy, Mrs. Clinton said she would like to cap health insurance premiums at 5 percent to 10 percent of income.
 The average cost of a family policy bought by an individual in 2006 and 2007 was $5,799, or 10 percent of the median family income of $58,526, according to America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group. Some policies cost up to $9,201, or 16 percent of median income.
 The average out-of-pocket cost for workers who buy family policies through their employers is lower, $3,281, or 6 percent of median income, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. 
 A cap on premiums has been part of Mrs. Clinton's universal coverage proposal since she announced it in September. Her published plan did not disclose her thinking on where to place the cap. She also said in the interview that she preferred to set the limit at a single level for all Americans rather than varying it by income.
 Mrs. Clinton, a New York Democrat, set out a comprehensive approach to her signature issue of health care in three speeches last year, but she has been criticized for not providing details on several crucial components. She largely continued that approach in the interview, saying she would leave particulars like the eligibility criteria for her proposed health insurance tax credits to negotiations with Congress.
 But she did discuss her thinking on other questions, including the premium cap, and expressed openness to measures she had not previously embraced.
 She said, for instance, that it ''might be appropriate'' to require insurers to spend a heavy proportion of every premium dollar on health care as opposed to overhead and profit. Several governors, including Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, have proposed requiring that insurers spend 85 percent of premiums on health care.
 Without specifying a number, Senator Barack Obama, Mrs. Clinton's rival for the nomination, has backed that general concept.
 Mrs. Clinton also she said if she could not generate the money needed to pay for universal coverage through other means, she would not object to raising the excise tax on tobacco products, which Congress last increased in 1997 to 39 cents a pack. 
 ''I'm a big believer in raising tobacco taxes,'' Mrs. Clinton said when asked whether an increase should be on the table. ''You know, when we were working on the Children's Health Insurance Program, that's the funding stream that the Congress came up with, which was bipartisan, which worked out very well. At some point, there's going to be diminishing returns. But, sure, why not? I don't have any objection to that.'' 
 As in her debates with Mr. Obama and other contenders, Mrs. Clinton displayed an easy command of health policy in the 45-minute interview, conducted in a basement meeting room in the Midtown Manhattan tower that houses her Senate office. Her voice hoarse, she conceded some weariness from the lengthy campaign, saying her decision to take off the Easter weekend had only allowed exhaustion to set in. But despite calls by some Democrats for her to abandon the race, she gave no hint that she was viewing her campaign in the past tense. 
 Mrs. Clinton presented a confident defense of her call for universal coverage, saying it reflected not only a moral imperative, but also the best chance to reduce costs and improve quality. 
 ''I know that there are a lot of experts who may disagree about how to get to universal health care,'' she said. ''But they agree with me that in the absence of universal health care it's very difficult to control costs, and it's extremely hard to incentivize quality improvements at the level you need to really see results.''
 Though that view is not shared by Senator John McCain or any of the rivals he vanquished to secure the Republican nomination, Mrs. Clinton said she thought that ''the time is right'' to build a bipartisan consensus to reorganize the health system.
 She pointed to a growing demand for change by businesses, which bear the brunt of rising premiums, and to the support by some Republicans for a Senate bill that, like her proposal, would require individuals to buy policies and toughen regulation of the insurance industry.
 ''There is going to be increasing pressure, because left alone, we're going to have more and more uninsured people and more and more underinsured people and continuing costs and decreasing quality,'' she said.
 Asked whether her proposal reflected the will of the entire country or just the leanings of voters in Democratic primaries, Mrs. Clinton said, ''Well, I think it's where the country can be.'' 
 The proposal to cover all 47 million uninsured people would maintain the private insurance system and mandate coverage for all legal residents. She would require insurers to cover every applicant regardless of age or health status. Government insurance similar to Medicare would be available to all consumers.
 Refundable tax credits would help make the newly mandatory policies affordable for low- and middle-income workers. Small businesses would receive tax credits to encourage them to offer insurance to employees. Large companies would either have to offer health benefits or pay into a pool that would finance subsidized coverage.
 Mrs. Clinton has pegged the cost of her plan at $110 billion. About half would come from savings generated by improvements in prevention, chronic disease management and electronic record keeping. The remainder would be produced by rolling back President Bush's income tax cuts on people earning more than $250,000 a year. 
 Mrs. Clinton's campaign Web site says she would cover the uninsured ''with no overall increase in health spending or taxes.'' She said in the interview that rolling back the Bush tax cuts ''should not be rightly labeled as a tax increase'' because without Congressional action the cuts are to expire on Jan. 1, 2011.
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, also aspires to provide universal coverage, but he would mandate coverage only for children. He has said consumers should not be required to buy policies until costs can be reduced enough to make premiums affordable. He has suggested that affordability is the sole reason people do not buy health insurance.
 Mrs. Clinton called that argument ''just specious.'' She maintains, and many health economists agree, that a share of the uninsured are ''free riders,'' typically young and healthy workers who can afford coverage but choose to spend on other priorities. 
 She pointed out that millions of qualified Americans, many of them children, remained unenrolled in government programs that would provide free or heavily subsidized policies. ''You can make it affordable, but unless you have some requirement you're not going to get everybody into the system,'' she said.
 As in past interviews and debates, Mrs. Clinton refused to specify how she would enforce her mandate. She has previously said that garnisheeing wages would be one option, but has declined to say whether it would be the preferred one. She did say, however, that the uninsured could be detected by employers and government agencies and then enrolled automatically.
 There would be ''a long grace period'' to enroll, she said. At some point, it might be necessary to impose penalties to encourage compliance, as is the case in Massachusetts, the lone state with a mandatory coverage plan. ''Probably eventually,'' she said, ''but I don't want to set a time frame.'' 
 As with many elements of her plan, Mrs. Clinton's ability to lower costs so that premiums would not exceed 10 percent of income is speculative. ''I think her plan is realistic at close to 10 percent, but I don't think it's realistic at 5 percent,'' said Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who generally supports her approach. 
 Mr. Gruber also questioned not varying the premium cap according to income. 
 Mrs. Clinton said reducing the cost of health care would be crucial to the next president's ability to keep Medicare solvent. The program's trustees projected this week that the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund would be exhausted in 2019.
 She said she would allow Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices and would ''rein in'' government subsidies for private Medicare Advantage plans. She said she would resist increasing payroll taxes or cutting benefits until trying a broad range of cost controls.
 ''We have so much unnecessary cost in our system,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''It's heartbreaking how much we spend on things that don't produce a doctor at a bedside or a nurse taking care of a patient or any particularly good outcome. 
 ''So I'm reluctant to put more money into a broken system. And it's not only Medicare. It's our entire health care system -- without significant reforms. I think that would be an unbelievably bad decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton being interviewed about what her universal health care program would look like. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INTERVIEWS (91%); FAMILY (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); TAX LAW (72%); EXCISE TAX (68%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (63%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); ED RENDELL (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



707 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Says North Hurts Only Itself In Expulsions

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea said Thursday that it was ''deeply regrettable'' that North Korea had ordered South Korean officials to leave its territory, but that the South was undaunted. 
 The predawn expulsion on Thursday followed an announcement on Wednesday by the new South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, that his government would not expand economic cooperation with North Korea unless it cooperated in dismantling its nuclear weapons programs. 
 All 11 South Korean government officials who were based in a jointly run factory complex in Kaesong, 37 miles from Seoul on the north side of the two Koreas' border, returned to South Korea early Thursday after receiving three days to leave. 
 South Korea said Thursday that North Korea was worsening its own isolation by disrupting the countries' budding economic cooperation. That cooperation can be seen in the Kaesong industrial complex, where 69 South Korean companies employ 23,000 North Koreans to make clothing, watches and other goods. 
 ''We will deal with this issue in a pragmatic way,'' said Mr. Lee's spokesman, Lee Dong-kwan. He said that the response would mix ''flexibility'' and ''stern principle,'' but did not elaborate. 
 The expulsion did not immediately affect the presence of hundreds of South Korean civilians in Kaesong or the operations of their plants. Nor did it stop the daily cross-border traffic of South Korean factory managers commuting from Seoul or of tourists visiting the North Korean town. 
 President Lee's two liberal predecessors, Roh Moo-hyun and Kim Dae-jung, had pursued a ''sunshine policy,'' providing billions of dollars of aid to North Korea and creating joint economic projects. Mr. Lee, a conservative, has accused them of failing to win concessions on human rights and nuclear disarmament. 
 His new government has been more willing to join the United States in applying direct pressure on North Korea over its nuclear activities. ''Time and patience is running out,'' said South Korea's foreign minister, Yu Myung-hwan, at a news conference Wednesday in Washington.
 In a related move, President Bush, in a telephone call to President Hu Jintao of China on Wednesday, discussed efforts to get the North to keep its promise to give a full accounting of its nuclear weapons programs before talks on dismantling them begin. 
 North Test-Fires Missiles
 SEOUL, South Korea (Agence France-Presse) -- North Korea test-fired several short-range missiles off its west coast on Friday, South Korea's presidential spokesman said. 
 The tests were part of ''ordinary military training,'' the spokesman, Lee Dong-kwan, told the Yonhap news agency. It said up to four missiles had been fired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (84%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



708 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Extra Tax Slips Out Of Budget

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Trymaine Lee contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly, backed away Thursday from his plan to seek an income tax increase for New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year, as lawmakers took a step toward completing a state budget.
 At a news conference Thursday night, Gov. David A. Paterson, Mr. Silver and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, announced an agreement on a rough spending ceiling of $124 billion for the fiscal year that begins April 1. 
 Mr. Paterson said that as part of the agreement, most of the $800 million in cuts that he proposed last week would be restored. But overall spending would still remain below the level proposed in January, when Gov. Eliot Spitzer introduced his budget.
 In all, the governor's budget office said on Thursday that spending growth would be about $700 million less than what Mr. Spitzer first proposed. Spending under the current plan would represent a 4 to 4.5 percent increase over the current budget.
 ''We're trying to predict what could be some very unfortunate numbers coming our way and have tried to cut the spending considerably,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 Mr. Silver's plan for a so-called millionaires' tax, which had been met with skepticism from the governor's office and the State Senate from its inception, was a critical piece of the Assembly's budget plan. The Assembly estimated that it would add more than $1.5 billion in revenue, and Mr. Silver defended it vigorously. 
 But as it became increasingly clear that neither Mr.. Paterson nor Mr. Bruno would support the plan, Mr. Silver agreed to stand down.
 ''There will not be an income tax on high earners as part of the budget,'' he said in an interview Thursday night. But he pledged to continue pressing for a tax increase on the wealthiest New Yorkers once the budget is completed. ''My conference and I still believe it's the appropriate thing to do, and it is what we should be doing as we go forward.''
 Mr. Silver's announcement capped a day of intense budget negotiations. Though the state's top leaders settled one of the most difficult issues in front of them, they left some of the biggest ones unresolved, including how richly some programs in education, health and transportation will be financed. And it remained far from certain whether the state would have a budget in place before the April 1 deadline.
 With Wall Street in turmoil and the economy worsening, state leaders have found themselves facing an unusual situation as they negotiate the budget. Usually they fight over how much more money they can spend. But this year they have found themselves debating how much they need to trim.
 Now that legislative leaders and the governor have agreed in principle to a top-line figure for the budget, committees will turn on Friday to the business of parceling out what money is available to various agencies and programs.
 ''I think that we'd like to make sure that things are moving and on time,'' said Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns, a Democrat from Brooklyn. ''However, these have been extraordinary times. I think we have had two and a half weeks where the state has been in crisis, and certainly, we don't want to rest on that as an excuse, but it is what it is.''
 The Paterson administration has said it remains committed to finishing the budget before April 1. Accomplishing that would be a major victory for the new governor, who is barely two weeks into his term. Completing a budget before the deadline -- a task that has always been difficult in Albany -- might help erase any doubts that Mr. Paterson has been distracted by questions about his extramarital affairs and the situation with Mr. Spitzer, who resigned after he was implicated as a client of a prostitution ring.
 ''We are obviously trying to get some things accomplished here,'' Mr. Paterson said, adding, ''There's a lot of work to be done.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



709 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2143 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
 ARMS SELLER COULD FACE CHARGES OF FRAUD
 Efraim E. Diveroli, the head of a company that was said to have lied about where the munitions it provided to Afghan security forces were made, could face federal criminal charges for fraud. Mr. Diveroli's company, called AEY Inc., was suspended from future federal work after shipping decades-old Chinese ammunitions cartridges to Afghanistan and claiming they were manufactured in Hungary. PAGE 12
 A BOOM TOWN FOR THE BROOM SELLER
 Catemaco, an idyllic town nestled near the Gulf of Mexico, is a favorite haunt of witches and warlocks; it even plays host to an International Congress of Witches on the first Friday of every March. Some of the magically inclined complain that their craft has become a tourist draw, while others complain that the practitioners are nothing but frauds. PAGE 11 
 SEOUL CRITICIZES NORTH'S EXPULSIONS
 South Korea said it found North Korea's decision to expel 11 South Korean officials from its territory ''deeply regrettable,'' and warned that the North was worsening its own isolation by disrupting the two countries' burgeoning economic cooperation. A spokesperson for South Korea said its response would mix ''flexibility'' and ''stern principle.'' PAGE A11
 FINDING THE SOFTWARE FOR SOCIALISM
 In the 70's, Salvadore Allende's Socialist government in Chile quietly embarked on a novel experiment to manage Chile's economy: using a clunky mainframe computer and a network of telex machines. The system, called Cybersyn, boasted a Star Trek-like chair with controls in the armrests, and was supposed to to find an alternative to the economies of Cuba and the Soviet Union. PAGE A11
 Seoul Chides North's Expulsions A11
 Russian Artist Disappears in Berlin A6
 NATIONAL
 GOVERNOR OF PUERTO RICO
 Faces 19 Criminal Counts
 Gov. Anibal S. Acevedo Vila of Puerto Rico was indicted on 19 criminal counts related to the financing of three political campaigns from 1999 to 2004, a result of a two-year inquiry. Mr. Acevedo, who is running for re-election, called the charges ''politically motivated'' and ''totally false'' and said he would not resign. PAGE A14
 PLAYING TO COME CLOSE
 As Senator Barack Obama embarks on a six-day bus haul across Pennsylvania in anticipation the primary there on April 22, the political business of lowering expectations has already begun. ''We win if we lose by only 5 points,'' one Obama backer said. ''The immediate goal is for us not to lose by 10 points. But if she loses by a point, she's out,'' she of course being that other Democratic candidate. PAGE A16
 A TRIBUTE TO PERSEVERANCE
 Part of the marvel of the Ma Rainey House in Columbus, Ga., is that it exists at all. It was basically a shambles when the city bought it in 1991, not everybody recalled the blues singer it was meant to commemorate, and the idea of developing a tourist site based on black culture, well, that just wasn't much done. PAGE A14
 MONEY FOR THE MAYOR
 Supporters of Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick of Detroit, who was charged this week with assorted felonies, want to raise money to help him pay for a defense team headed by a lawyer who charges $700 an hour. They included former Mayor Willie Brown of San Francisco; Reginald Turner, a past president of the National Bar Association; and members of the local clergy. PAGE A15
 A CONTEST WITH ECHOES
 The stakes were a bit less -- the state primary is for presidential candidates, the local opening was for the school board. But there were similarities, including calls for change versus the promise of experience. Oh, and there was also that matter of race, or at least ethnicity, that may or may not have been involved. PAGE A16
 EX-GOVERNOR ORDERED RELEASED
 A federal appeals court ordered that the former governor of Alabama, Don Siegelman, be released from prison, pending his appeal of a bribery conviction that Democrats say resulted from a politically driven prosecution. The court said the appeal raised ''substantial questions'' but did not say what those questions were. Mr. Siegelman has served nine months of a seven-year sentence. PAGE A14
 The Democrats PAGE A17 
 Interstate Sniper PAGE A19
 Imprisoned-Immigrant Count PAGE A15
 BUSINESS
 WHEN ONE ITEM HAS 
 Two Prices at One Time
 The Commodities Futures Trading Commission has scheduled a forum on April 22 to try to figure out something that economists say shouldn't happen, but does: the price for a bushel of grain set in the derivatives markets has been substantially higher than the simultaneous price in the cash market. PAGE C1
 G.M. LEADER FACES CHALLENGE
 Frederick A. Henderson, General Motors' president and chief operating officer, has the pedigree and work experience for the job. The son of a G.M. sales manager, he has years of experience with the company. The times will pose roadblocks to restoring profits, with an automobile market predicted to be the worst in more than a decade. PAGE C1
 FOCUS ON ANIMAL-DERIVED DRUGS
 The recent recall of the blood thinner heparin, whose main ingredient comes from pig intestines, has raised public awareness of animal-derived drugs. Concerns about potential risks with them, including animal viruses, are helping drive searches for synthetic replacements. PAGE C3
 A GLUM MOOD
 American optimism is lagging, Floyd Norris writes, not just because house prices are dropping, defaults are climbing and the Iraq war shows no signs of ending. ''Instead,'' he says, ''it is evidence that America is no longer a leader, or perhaps even competent, in one area in which we believed it excelled.'' PAGE C1
 PLANS FOR BRAZIL AIRLINE
 The founder of JetBlue Airways, David Neeleman, said that he planned to start a domestic airline in Brazil. He has already agreed to buy 36 Brazilian-made jets with a total list price of $1.4 billion. Mr. Neeleman was born in Brazil and returned for two years at 19 to do Mormon missionary work. He has dual citizenship in Brazil and the United States, which allows him to hold a controlling interest in an airline in both countries. PAGE C3
 NEW HARVARD ENDOWMENT LEADER
 The Harvard Management Company, which oversees the university's $34.9 billion endowment, appointed Jane Mendillo its president and chief executive. The appointment is a homecoming of sorts for Ms. Mendillo, who has run Wellesley College's endowment since 2002 but served in a variety of capacities at Harvard Management before joining Wellesley. PAGE C1
 Investor Trial Hurdles PAGE C3
 METRO
 JOBS DECLINE IN STATE,
 But Show Rise in City
 The number of jobs in New York State dipped in February, signaling that the state may be following the nation into a recession. But the jobs numbers in New York City increased slightly. The drop in state numbers was the first month-to-month decline since last summer, according to the state Department of Labor. Economists said that conditions in the city and state were likely to worsen in the coming months. PAGE A21
 TALKING TO THE MAN DOWNSTAIRS
 Michelle Wilson is the neighbor anyone in New York would want. She never stopped knocking on the door of Kenneth Jackson, long disabled by a stroke that frustrated him to the point of driving away everyone else in his Bronx building. He died in a fire in his third-floor apartment this week, and Ms. Wilson, with love, could describe his life in full. She won't stop knocking, but no one will be there to answer. PAGE A21
 A CHURCH'S GIFT
 The Roman Catholic church under construction in LaGrangeville, Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha, will soon receive a transplant from a sister church in Harlem, St. Thomas the Apostle, that died in 2003: 12 stained-glass windows from Germany depicting New Testament scenes, which have graced St. Thomas for a century and will soon surround the altar at Blessed Kateri. PAGE A20
 SPORTS
 BUILDING A BASKETBALL POWER
 Using What's Near at Hand
 The Wisconsin-Davidson matchup in the N.C.A.A. tournament's Midwest Region semifinal is billed as a bout between a mighty program from the powerful Big Ten and a charming little upstart. But while the charming little upstart has players from six states, six countries and three continents, Wisconsin's 31-4 record has been built on 11 in-state players. PAGE C10
 A SUCCESSFUL TRANSFER
 Hurricane Katrina forced D. J. Augustin and his family from their home in New Orleans, landing him in a Houston suburb for his senior year of high school. The Texas connection took, and now Augustin, one of the nation's top point guards, returns to Houston for seconded-seeded Texas' game against third-seeded Stanford in the South Regional N.C.A.A. semifinals Friday. PAGE C13
 A Steinbrenner Day PAGE C11
 A Giants Start PAGE C14
 Glavine's Mets Ties PAGE C11 
 ESCAPES
 SWINGING BY CENTRAL AMERICA,
 And Finding a Muse There
 The writer Joyce Maynard intended only to accompany her daughter, who was on her way to study Spanish in Guatemala, and then go on to Hawaii. But something said Stop, and so she did. Now Ms. Maynard owns a home in Guatemala and spends up to four months a year there. PAGE D1
 WHO SAID SNAKE?
 Developers are beginning to find the island of Culebra, which worries natives and transplants a bit. But it's still a Caribbean bargain unlike many others, though with a name perhaps best left untranslated from the Spanish. PAGE D5
 Home Exchanges PAGE D1
 Havens: Silver Star Mountain PAGE D4
 OBITUARIES
 ABBY MANN, 83
 A screenwriter who brought incisive characterization and a searing sense of justice to ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' and other social dramas, he died on Tuesday in Beverly Hills. Mr. Mann was catapulted into the first rank of screenwriters by ''Judgment at Nuremberg,'' which emerged from a script with the same title that he had written for CBS's ''Playhouse 90'' two years earlier. The movie version won him an Academy Award for screenwriting. PAGE C15
 WEEKEND
 ACCOMPANIED BY WAR MILESTONES, 
 A War Movie Makes Its Debut
 ''Stop-Loss,'' a film that focuses on the ordeal of American soldiers in and out of combat, follows the commercial failures of last fall's high-profile Iraq-themed movies -- Paul Haggis's ''In the Valley of Elah'' and Brian De Palma's ''Redacted'' among them. ''But those movies did not necessarily deserve their fate,'' A.O. Scott writes, ''and it would be a shame if ''Stop-Loss'' were to follow them into oblivion.'' PAGE B16
 ON THE INSIDE, LOOKING OTHERWISE
 It might be hard to imagine Paul Simon, both singly and as half a duet one of music's most enduring presences for decades, as an outsider. But Jon Pareles writes that ''the thread running through Mr. Simon's songs is estrangement,'' adding, ''Moments of solace or satisfaction are far outnumbered by misgivings and regrets.'' PAGE B1
 MULTIPLE PERSONALITIES
 ''Tracey Ullman's State of the Union'' arrives on Showtime Sunday, and Alessandra Stanley, in her review, has a bit of trouble finding a one-word description that fits the star. ''Impressionist, used by Rich Little and Monet, isn't right,'' she writes. ''Impersonator sounds too much like a drag show.'' PAGE B3
 ART WITHOUT RISKS
 The Armory Show art fair is back, and, Roberta Smith writes, is in fine form. She adds, ''There are no cringe-inducing moments,'' which may or may not be good, and that ''there is almost nothing that makes you stop in your tracks,'' which would seem not to be. PAGE B27
 Michiko Kakutani PAGE B27 
 Islamic Art PAGE B27
 EDITORIAL
 SENSE AND INSENSITIVITY IN PAKISTAN
 The Bush administration bullied and bought the loyalty of Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf -- and he never stayed bought. It is unlikely that President Bush can now overcome Pakistanis' visceral mistrust. But with the right mix of aid, attention and humility, the administration can help strengthen the new democratic government and begin to argue the case for why fighting extremism is in Pakistan's clear interest. PAGE A22
 MEDICARE'S FINANCIAL WOES
 Warnings that Medicare spending is growing at an unsustainable rate come with mind-numbing regularity. But Medicare's financial woes are not intrinsic to Medicare. The relentless rise in health care costs are driving up premiums for private health insurance and employer-based coverage as well. Medicare will not truly be ''fixed'' until those costs are brought under control. PAGE A22
 BROKEN ICE IN ANTARCTICA
 Global warming has begun to erode the ice sheets of western Antarctica at a faster rate than previously detected. Radically changing the way humans live and do business is the one chance to find a possible limit to radical change in the natural world. PAGE A22
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Pandering McCain, progressive Hillary, cautious Obama: Judging from their policy proposals, the candidates are not as they're usually portrayed. PAGE A23
 DAVID BROOKS
 Anybody who thinks McCain is merely continuing the Bush agenda is not paying attention. PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (73%); WITCHCRAFT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); POLITICS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (50%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (77%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%); CHILE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



710 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Home Builder Reports a Loss, but Still Beats Estimates

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Lennar Corporation reported a quarterly loss Thursday as deliveries of new homes and new orders fell, but the results were not as bad as expected and shares of the home builder rose. 
 The chief executive, Stuart A. Miller, said the United States economy was deteriorating rapidly and had slipped into recession.
 The net loss was $88.2 million, or 56 cents a share, in the fiscal first quarter that ended Feb. 29, in contrast to a profit of $68.6 million, or 43 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Analysts had expected a loss of $1.15 a share.
 The latest results included a charge of 38 cents a share for valuation adjustments and write-offs.
 Revenue dropped 62 percent, to $1.06 billion.
 ''The housing market has remained challenged throughout the first quarter of 2008, but what's also beginning to come clear is that the rest of the economy has now followed suit and I believe has now slipped into recession,'' Mr. Miller said in a conference call.
 ''The deterioration that took place so quickly in the housing market last year now seems to be happening at the same rapid pace in the overall economy.''
 Lennar, based in Miami, said first-quarter deliveries fell 60 percent, to 3,596 homes. New orders sank 57 percent, to 3,045, but the cancellation rate improved to 26 percent, from 33 percent in the previous quarter. 
 An analyst for Majestic Research, John Tomlinson, said the positive news was that Lennar was amassing cash and reported low debt levels, but he said the substantial decline in orders was cause for worry. ''The lack of demand and the ability to generate new orders in an environment of declining home prices is overall bad news,'' Mr. Tomlinson said.
 Greater incentives of about $48,000 a home helped push down the average sales price by 8 percent, to $278,000, Lennar said.
 Shares of Lennar rose 31 cents, to $17.90.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (98%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (98%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (98%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



711 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Begin Push in Pennsylvania in Hope of Offsetting Clinton Advantages

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
When he steps aboard a campaign bus in Pittsburgh on Friday, Senator Barack Obama begins a six-day journey across Pennsylvania and its complex political landscape, one that is largely favorable to his rival, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Mr. Obama will travel from the gritty western part of the state to the more prosperous east, at times riding straight into unfriendly territory, like that in Johnstown, the hardscrabble, blue-collar base of John P. Murtha, the powerful congressman, who is one of Mrs. Clinton's staunchest allies. 
 Halfway through Mr. Obama's tour, Mrs. Clinton will begin her own, by bus and plane, across some of the same turf.
 Mr. Obama's tour will alert the political universe that he is indeed making a run at a state that some thought he might duck. Pennsylvania, which holds its primary on April 22, is one of the last to vote -- and yet in the extended struggle for the Democratic presidential nomination it has become crucial to both candidates. 
 Certainly for Mrs. Clinton, it is do or die.
 For Mr. Obama, the mission is less stark but no less urgent. A strong showing, if not a victory, would keep his accumulated lead in delegates and in the popular vote more or less intact. And it would puncture Mrs. Clinton's argument to superdelegates that he is a flawed candidate who cannot compete in the big closely contested states.
 ''We win if we lose by only five points,'' said an Obama backer who is not authorized to speak for the campaign. ''The immediate goal is for us not to lose by 10 points. But if she loses by a point, she's out.'' 
 Losing by a substantial margin would underscore the concern that even with seven weeks to map out a strategy, Mr. Obama had been unable to win over the white working-class voters who make up much of this state's electorate and would be an important part of any nationwide Democratic coalition in the fall.
 Pennsylvania is the sixth-largest state by population, and apart from Illinois, Mr. Obama's home state, it has the biggest and most diverse economy and population of any of the 27 contests he has won.
 At this point, he lags in the polls here by at least 12 percentage points. The bus trip is intended to help narrow the gap in the popular vote and efficiently capture delegates who are apportioned by Congressional district.
 ''His goal is to win as many delegates as he can and have it turn into a squeaker,'' said Tony Podesta, a Democratic operative who has run several statewide campaigns in Pennsylvania and is supporting Mrs. Clinton. ''He's been successful in other states, like Wisconsin, in taking an electorate that was favorable to her and through the investment of huge numbers of dollars on TV and lots of personal campaigning, has managed to turn that around.''
 The Obama campaign has been laying the groundwork to do just that. It started with a concerted voter registration drive that ended on Monday. Analysts said many newly registered Democrats were probably Obama voters, partly because the typical Clinton voter -- older and more established -- was already registered.
 The Obama camp has moved to what it calls the persuasion phase of its campaign. It has already spent more than $2 million on television and radio; Mrs. Clinton, who has less money but is better known, has spent perhaps a third of his total.
 One of Mr. Obama's commercials is biographical, with good reason. Campaign officials say he still needs to introduce himself, while Mrs. Clinton has family roots in the state and has visited often since her husband's first campaign here in 1992. Former President Bill Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea, have made several stops in Pennsylvania over the last two weeks.
 Mr. Obama also faces demographic disadvantages. While he draws young people and those with college degrees, Pennsylvania has one of the highest concentrations of people over 65 (15 percent, compared with a national average of 12 percent) and one of the lowest of people with college degrees (22 percent, compared with a national average of 24 percent).
 Few doubt that Mr. Obama will carry Philadelphia, where more than 40 percent of Democrats are African-American. It is also home to upper-income white liberals and students, two other groups that have supported him. At the same time, the city's mayor, Michael Nutter, is working on behalf of Mrs. Clinton, as is the state's popular governor and former Philadelphia mayor, Edward G. Rendell. Much of the city's white working class also supports her. 
 If past elections are a guide, Mr. Obama's success will lie in how much he can increase the turnout in Philadelphia and its surrounding suburban counties, with their pockets of affluent, educated white liberals. The suburbs are expected to be a major battleground.
 It was Mr. Rendell's near-total reliance on the Philadelphia media market that won him the primary for governor in 2002, and many analysts here see Mr. Obama copying that strategy, which is interesting because Mr. Rendell is such a big cheerleader for Mrs. Clinton.
 ''The Rendell voters are Obama voters,'' said David Sweet, a Democratic consultant and an informal adviser to the Obama campaign, and Mr. Rendell's campaign manager in 2002.
 ''The Rendell support was urban, southeast, African-American, affluent, liberal and suburban,'' Mr. Sweet said. ''And the approach was to get a huge turnout in the southeast by a significant margin, run as close as we could in Allegheny and try to hold the margin down in the southwest.''
 Outside the Philadelphia media market, the state is trickier for Mr. Obama, especially in the west where his itinerary begins. Part of Pittsburgh, in Allegheny County, with blacks and liberal whites is a likely oasis for him, but the surrounding region of conservative, blue-collar Reagan Democrats, many of them Roman Catholic, will be among his toughest audiences.
 On the bus tour, Mr. Obama intends to concentrate on listening to voters in small public forums and conveying his belief that he can create a working majority in Washington to bring about change. 
 ''You'll see a focus on economic issues and jobs,'' said Sean Smith, a spokesman for Mr. Obama's campaign. ''But it's the 'Road to Change' bus tour, and our campaign believes those two things are linked, that we won't get solutions to these problems until we have fundamental change in Washington.'' 
 Some of Mr. Obama's supporters also hope to see him link Mrs. Clinton with the North American Free Trade Agreement, signed by her husband and unpopular in some of the protectionist parts of the state.
 ''Out here in southwest Pennsylvania, trade and Nafta are critical issues,'' said Representative David K. Levdansky, a state legislator who represents parts of Allegheny and Washington Counties and supports Mr. Obama. Mr. Levdansky said he hoped Mr. Obama would emphasize his background as a community organizer who helped dislocated steelworkers.
 But Mr. Levdansky also said Mr. Obama would face other obstacles with the working-class voters in the region. Most of those who stop by his local offices support Mrs. Clinton, he said.
 ''It might be the experience factor,'' Mr. Levdansky said. ''And for all our wanting to believe that race is less of an issue than ever before, the reality of racism still exists. It's not that they don't think he's qualified, but some people fear that it might be empowering the black community by electing Obama. I don't see it that way. I see his potential to bring some of these diverse interests together.'' 
 Mr. Obama did make his major speech on race in Philadelphia, but it is not clear what effects it might have.
 For now, Mr. Obama is trading in his signature big rallies, which drew thousands of passionate fans in the earlier states, for smaller venues and quieter audiences; his first foray into Pennsylvania was a low-key discussion at a factory in Bucks County.
 ''This is like a symphony,'' said Clifford Levine, a Pittsburgh lawyer, fund-raiser and chairman of Mr. Obama's western Pennsylvania steering committee. ''You don't start with a crescendo when you have five weeks. You start with a softer sell. We'll build things up, and once there's support and people get to know him, you start in with the big crescendo.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Pennsylvania At a Glance: The state's primary on April 22 will allocate 158 delegates to the candidates, 103 of whom will be divided based on the results in each of the state's 19 Congressional districts. Pennsylvania's black population is concentrated in the urban centers of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.(Sources: Census Bureau
 Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) Charts detail 2004 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WINNER and 2005 MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SUPERDELEGATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN P MURTHA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



712 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words

 BODY:
IDEOLOGICAL CLASHES Faced with a crisis on Wall Street and soaring home foreclosures on Main Street, Republican and Democrats are divided over whom the government should try to rescue. 
 MARKET ANOMALY Economists are at a loss to explain the price disparities for corn, soybeans and wheat in the derivative and cash markets. [C1.] 
 DAUNTING TASK Frederick A. Henderson, who rose through the ranks at General Motors, is working to accelerate the automaker's global growth while steering its comeback effort at home. [C1.]
 HARVARD MONEY MANAGER Jane Mendillo, Wellesley College's investment chief, will take command of Harvard University's $34.9 billion endowment, the world's largest college fund. [C1.]
 LIQUIDATING STOCK James E. Cayne, the chairman of Bear Stearns, disclosed he sold his shares in the investment bank, worth more than $1 billion a year ago, for $61 million. [C1.]
 UNEXPECTED HURDLE An antitrust law set to go into effect Aug. 1 in China could give the Asian nation influence over Microsoft's acquisition of Yahoo. [C2.]
 TRAFFIC COP Under pressure that it was blocking some Internet traffic, Comcast said it would change its fundamental approach to Web traffic. [C2.]
 TRIAL ON HOLD Three years after charges were filed in a channel-stuffing scheme at Bristol-Myers, the case against Frederick S. Schiff, who is largely blamed for it, is disintegrating. [C3.]
 MITSUBISHI'S FIRST BUYER Looking to reduce its fuel costs, All Nippon Airways of Japan said it would update its fleet with an order of 15 regional jets from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. [C3.]
 BOUND FOR RIO The founder and chairman of JetBlue Airways, David Neeleman, plans to start a domestic airline in Brazil, using $150 million in financing. [C3.]
 DISMAL GROWTH The Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product increased at a mere 0.6 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter of last year. [C4.]
 LOSS FOR LENNARThe Lennar Corporation, the home builder, posted a first-quarter loss, but shares rose because the results were not as bad as Wall Street analysts expected. [C4.]
 AMEX BULKS UP American Express said it would buy a corporate credit unit from General Electric for $1.1 billion. [C5.]
 RETRACTION The Los Angeles Times acknowledged that documents used in a front-page article on a 1994 attack outside a Manhattan recording studio on the rapper Tupac Shakur, above, were most likely forgeries. [C5.]
 TV news anchor resigns Citing a shift in editorial direction, a prominent American anchor of Al Jazeera English has quit the 24-hour news channel. [C3.]
 INTEL'S HELP DESK The Intel Corporation wants to be the problem-solver for other information technology professionals. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.]
 SINKING FEELING The stock market sank on a weak economic growth report. [C8.]
 JOBS REPORT The number of jobs in New York State dipped 0.1 percent in February, but jobs in the city rose, despite a rising tide of layoffs on Wall Street. [B1.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AIRLINES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); LITIGATION (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (52%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (81%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (81%); INTEL CORP (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (69%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (54%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (81%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (69%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); ANA (LSE) (54%); 9202 (TSE) (54%); 7011 (TSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (81%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (54%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (54%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); JIMMY CAYNE (58%); JAMES E CAYNE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



713 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Obama Casts Wide Blame for Financial Crisis and Proposes Homeowner Aid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama called Thursday for tighter regulation of mortgage lenders, banks and financial houses, even as he spoke of pumping $30 billion into the economy to shield homeowners and local governments from the worst effects of the collapse of the housing bubble.
 Mr. Obama laid much of the blame for the crisis on lobbyists and politicians who dismantled the regulatory framework governing the energy, telecommunications and financial services sectors. 
 Speaking at Cooper Union in Manhattan, Mr. Obama blamed Democrats no less than Republicans for the crisis that now casts a shadow of foreclosure and insolvency over millions of Americans. He did not mention former President Bill Clinton by name, but the target of his criticism seemed clear.
 ''Under Republican and Democratic administrations, we failed to guard against practices that all too often rewarded financial manipulation instead of productivity and sound business practices,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The result has been a distorted market that creates bubbles instead of steady sustainable growth, a market that favors Wall Street over Main Street but ends up hurting both.''
 Mr. Obama, an Illinois Democrat, proposed to rebuild a regulatory structure without clamping too tight a hand on economic innovation. But he was unsparing in his view that industry lobbyists and weak legislators had failed to deal with the risks of a more complex financial system.
 ''Instead of establishing a 21st-century regulatory framework, we simply dismantled the old one,'' he said, ''aided by a legal but corrupt bargain in which campaign money all too often shaped policy and watered down oversight.''
 Mr. Obama also took shots at Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. Mr. McCain argued this week against a vigorous federal intervention to address the crisis, saying Washington should not bail out banks and homeowners who in his view had knowingly taken on risky mortgages.
 Mr. Obama argued that such a response offered too little. ''While this is consistent with Mr. McCain's determination to run for George Bush's third term,'' he said, ''it won't help families who are suffering.''
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York also focused on the ailing economy Thursday while campaigning in North Carolina. She announced a $2.5-billion-a-year proposal to retrain laid-off workers. 
 ''We've had enough of a president who didn't know enough about economics and didn't do enough for the American middle class,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Raleigh. Referring to Mr. McCain, she added, ''I don't think we can afford four more years of that kind of inaction.''
 Mrs. Clinton's speech made no mention of Mr. Obama. Instead, she wanted to train voters' minds on a general election matchup between her and Mr. McCain. 
 Mr. McCain ''recently admitted, 'The issue of economics is not something I've understood as well as I should,' '' Mrs. Clinton said. ''And it turns out he'd rather ignore the credit crisis and mortgage crisis -- or blame middle-class families instead of offering solutions on their behalf.''
 The speeches of the Democratic candidates for the presidential nomination served as a reminder of the thin wall that separates their policy views. (Mrs. Clinton gave a speech this week in Philadelphia on the housing crisis.) Both candidates have talked about spending billions to help homeowners at risk of foreclosure, and are moving so closely in step that their subordinates have shouted about stolen ideas.
 Both warned of a national credit crisis and advanced proposals to amend bankruptcy laws to aid those facing housing foreclosure. Each endorsed Democratic legislation -- sponsored by Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts -- to create a housing security program in the Federal Housing Administration that would provide incentives to refinance mortgages carrying onerously high interest rates.
 ''They are very close; they are pointing to very similar proposals,'' said John Irons, research and policy director for the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research center. ''There are minor differences, but when you compare their proposals with McCain, that's night and day. The Democrats are more like noon and 12:30.''
 Still, differences of emphasis exist. Mrs. Clinton says the nation's financial difficulties are rooted in the housing slump. Mr. Obama took pains to cast the blame on what he said was decades of weakening of the nation's regulatory apparatus, and talked of more oversight of credit-rating agencies and requiring stronger capital requirements for complex financial instruments like mortgage-backed securities.
 Two of Mr. Obama's chief advisers for his speech served under President Clinton: Joseph E. Stiglitz was chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, and Robert B. Reich was secretary of labor.
 Mr. Obama said the housing slump was a result of another of the bubbles that have distorted the economy in the past decade. Few doubted, he noted, that the nation needed to reform the 1930s-era law -- the Glass-Steagall Act -- that had erected a wall between commercial and investment banks. But, as Mr. Obama's aides noted, the banking and insurance industries spent more than $300 million on a successful effort to repeal that act in 1999.
 The resulting changes, Mr. Obama said, granted far greater freedom to investment houses without modernizing the regulatory regime and demanding transparency. The same pattern played out in regulation of home mortgages to bad effect, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama speaking Thursday in New York. Mr. Obama blamed politicians and lobbyists for the economic crisis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Economic Proposals On Thursday: In a speech in New York, Senator Barack Obama focused on the oversight of financial markets. Chart details various proposals.
 Senator Hillary Rodham: Clinton, who has proposed $30 billion to help states and communities lessen foreclosures, spoke in North Carolina. Chart also details various political proposals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



714 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Intervention Or a Bailout?

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When an election campaign coincides with both a crisis on Wall Street and soaring home foreclosures across the country, the traditional ideological battles over ''more government'' or ''less government'' become blurred. 
 Senator Barack Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic candidates for president, claim to have proposed a more activist role for government than either President Bush or the likely Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain, and the Democratic rhetoric makes the contrast appear even sharper. 
 But while their philosophies might seem starkly different, in reality both parties have come to the conclusion that major government involvement is needed to rescue the financial and housing markets. 
 The ideological clashes are less about whether the government should intervene in the economy, and more about whom it should try to rescue. 
 ''Democrats are more likely to propose protecting individuals, and Republicans are more likely to propose protecting markets,'' said William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group in Washington that champions smaller government. 
 Despite differing approaches, Democrats and Republicans may end up in a similar place because it will be difficult to protect individuals without protecting the markets, and the markets will remain fragile if individuals suffer huge declines in their personal wealth. 
 For now, the parties seem to be worlds apart. This week, the two Democratic presidential contenders seized on the deepening economic crisis and proposed broad government rescue plans for homeowners that would each cost about $30 billion.
 The Bush administration dismissed such ideas as bailouts and vowed to veto even modest Democratic bills to help homeowners. Mr. McCain asserted this week that ''it is not the duty of government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly.'' 
 In practice, the Democrats have not really had to confront the full fury and magnitude of the crisis. Measured in dollars, their biggest proposals are small compared with the hundreds of billions of dollars that the Federal Reserve has decided to lend to struggling institutions, and compared with the magnitude of losses in home values and defaulted mortgages. 
 Mr. McCain and the Bush administration, meanwhile, have staunchly supported one of the biggest government interventions in the last century: the Federal Reserve's decision to lend as much as $400 billion at rock-bottom rates to banks and Wall Street firms.
 The Fed's rescue operation involves a sum many times more than Democrats proposed spending on homeowners, and it comes on top of a host of other injections of government money into the economy. First came the bipartisan economic stimulus package, which this year alone will provide about $152 billion in tax rebates and temporary tax cuts to help spur consumption. 
 Then came a series of moves to greatly expand the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-sponsored mortgage finance companies. 
 And this week, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board decided to lend an extra $100 billion to member banks for mortgage financing.
 In a speech this week, Mrs. Clinton compared Mr. McCain's approach to that of Herbert Hoover, and said, ''I don't think we can afford four more years of that kind of inaction.'' Mr. Obama, laying down his own marker on Thursday, declared that ''the free market was never meant to be a free license to take whatever you can get.'' 
 But the two Democrats have also proposed a number of changes -- such as the expanded role for Fannie and Freddie -- that President Bush has recently adopted as well. 
 An area where the parties do seem to have sharp disagreements is regulation, particularly of investment banks. 
 Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail are pushing for tougher restrictions on deceptive or risky mortgage lending, stricter rules for credit-card issuers and new rules that would allow bankruptcy judges to reduce the size of mortgages. Democrats have also called for tighter supervision of Wall Street firms.
 Republicans have resisted a swing back toward greater regulation. Though the Bush administration is expected to unveil next week a sweeping blueprint for overhauling the financial regulation, administration officials have made it clear their main goal is to streamline regulatory agencies.
 The most radical idea that Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have endorsed is for the government to step in and refinance mortgages for as many as two million homeowners who are at risk of defaulting.
 The idea is based on bills being drafted by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, both Democrats. The legislation would let the Federal Housing Administration guarantee as much as $300 billion in mortgages if the existing mortgage lenders agreed to reduce the loan amounts to levels that the borrowers could realistically afford.
 In effect, the government would be taking over mortgages heading toward foreclosure. The mortgage lenders would have to swallow a significant loss, but the government would offer them a chance to recoup some of their losses if the houses were eventually resold at a higher price.
 The measures would provide about $10 billion to underwrite about $300 billion worth of federal loan guarantees, and another $10 billion for states and localities to help finance affordable housing programs.
 President Bush and his top advisers oppose the idea, arguing that it would be a bailout for both irresponsible lenders and irresponsible borrowers. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the Treasury, ridiculed the proposals as ''not yet ready for the starting gate.''
 But Republicans are still looking for new ways for the government to soften the crisis. 
 The Bush administration began a new program called F.H.A. Secure last summer, which is intended to help people refinance high-cost subprime mortgages. Industry executives and consumer groups say the eligibility rules are far too narrow to make a dent in foreclosures, and administration officials are looking at ways to expand the program.
 The administration's other big effort has been a voluntary program called Hope Now, under which mortgage lenders agree to freeze a borrower's interest rate at its low introductory level. But industry analysts estimate that only about 3 percent of subprime borrowers are likely to benefit from that program. More than 20 percent of subprime mortgages are already delinquent. 
 Mr. McCain and other Republicans have argued that homeowners and lenders alike need to endure a correction from the wild run-up in housing prices in recent years as well as from unwise and often fraudulent mortgages.
 ''Some Americans bought homes they couldn't afford, betting that rising prices would make it easier to refinance later,'' Mr. McCain said this week. ''Our system of market checks and balances did not correct until the bubble burst.''
 Republican lawmakers and President Bush have been busy on other fronts. For years, they had sought to shrink the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which raise money at lower rates than private banks because they have an implied guarantee of government help if they get into trouble.
 In the last several weeks, Congress and the administration have loosened a number of restrictions on both companies, which analysts estimate will allow them to finance an additional $200 billion in mortgages this year.
 But there are risks to taxpayers. Some analysts predict that both companies will face as much as $12 billion in losses this year, largely because falling home prices are expected to lead to a surge in defaults that will infect even the conservative mortgages guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie. 
 The government is not technically obligated to bail them out, but if the companies veered toward insolvency, political leaders would be under intense pressure to do so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); VETO (77%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HOME PRICES (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TAX RELIEF (62%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



715 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Not Everyone Is Cheering Lower Rates

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
THE large reduction in interest rates this year is a boon to debt-heavy homeowners and businesses, and it may yet save the economy from recession. But it does no favors for people who receive more interest income than they pay out, like those in, or close to, retirement.
 The Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark rate to 2.25 percent from 4.25 percent since 2008 began, bringing down rates on bank deposits, money-market funds and many bonds. The decline in rates has been especially steep in ultra-safe vehicles like Treasury bills and short-term Treasury notes. 
 People living on income from a pension or other pool of savings have not experienced a similar drop in inflation. That makes achieving higher investment income -- without taking on appreciably higher risk -- even more vital.
 Fortunately, when markets are under pressure and distortions occur in prices, sometimes they work in investors' favor. Municipal bonds may be an example; heavy selling by hedge funds and investors worried about the ability of companies that insure the issues to cover losses has resulted in yields that are higher than on equivalent Treasury issues that offer no tax break.
 Benjamin Tobias, a Florida financial planner, recommends muni bond funds, saying he finds the yield premium over taxable paper appealing and the default risk low. But he advises sticking with portfolios with short maturities, say six months or less.
 Interest-rate reductions may help the economy today but fuel inflation that harms it tomorrow, he warned. The longer the life span of a debt instrument, the more sensitive it is to inflation expectations, so he is encouraging investors to sell longer-term bonds.
 ''I think we're going in a bad direction on inflation,'' Mr. Tobias said. ''Double-digit rates are in our future, and you don't want to be locked into something in the low single digits.''
 You don't have to be, said Jeffrey Gundlach, chief investment officer of the TCW Group and a bond fund manager with a strong track record. Forced sales of mortgage-backed securities have sent their yields to double digits, which he believes will put a floor under prices.
 HE has been buying so-called Alt-A mortgage securities, packages of loans with credit quality rated between prime and subprime. The securities have experienced few defaults so far, yet prices have fallen to levels that imply that up to 50 percent of the debt will go bad.
 ''Either that's the correct price fundamentally and the United States is on the verge of a massive depressionary scenario for property prices and real estate,'' Mr. Gundlach said in a conference call to reporters, ''or else these securities are too cheap.''
 The second possibility makes more sense to him. He sees ''tremendous opportunity'' in Alt-A mortgages and has put a third of his Total Return Bond fund into them.
 These high-yielding assets may also produce better returns than longer-term Treasury debt if Mr. Tobias is right about the inflation outlook. Higher inflation tends to go hand in hand with stronger economic growth, which should lower default rates, supporting prices.
 Another alternative for yield-hungry investors is to forsake debt instruments and look for income in the stock market. Henry Herrmann, chief executive of Waddell & Reed, notes that the decline in share prices over the last six months has raised dividend payouts to attractive levels.
 ''With the beating being taken in some stocks, it is possible to find yields competitive with the credit market,'' Mr. Herrmann said. Beyond the dividend payments, he added, ''over time you've got appreciation potential.''
 Some older investors or those who shun risk for other reasons may not have the patience to wait for prices of stocks or high-yield debt to improve or to hang on if declines continue. Such assets may not be suitable for them, no matter how sound the long-term prospects are.
 ''This is a good time to be focused on return of money, rather than return on money,'' Mr. Herrmann said. ''In this environment, people should be satisfied with receiving moderate income and being able to sleep at night.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



716 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Broadening Broadband

 BODY:
The big problem in providing Internet service to rural America is often called ''the last mile'' -- the difficulty in reaching the smallest communities and farthest-flung houses and farms. In cities, that problem might be called ''the last block'' -- the difficulty in reaching every neighborhood, no matter how poor. 
 For a while, many American cities, caught up in a tide of technological and fiscal optimism, promised to try to make Internet coverage available to all by making it citywide, wireless and low-cost or even free. 
 That has proved to be harder than it seemed at first. EarthLink, an Internet provider that was partnering with Philadelphia, has pulled out of a much-heralded project there, and other service providers are rethinking similar projects. 
 EarthLink is calling it a change in strategic direction. What that phrase means, simply, is where's the profit? It is a reasonable question. But for the people who have been left without Internet service as municipal wireless plans have collapsed, there are no reasonable answers, only an all-too-familiar barrier between them and the information age. 
 The neighborhoods that most need low-cost, public wireless service now find themselves largely dependent on Internet access through public libraries. This may not sound like a terrible thing, but have you seen what's happened to the budgets -- and the operating hours -- of public libraries?
 To cities and Internet providers, municipal Wi-Fi looked like an ideal partnership. Philadelphia gave EarthLink free access to utility poles for mounting wireless routers. EarthLink promised to build hot spots, offer low-cost residential service and provide still lower-cost access for the poorest customers. 
 The costs of building a network turned out to be higher than expected -- at a time when prices for private Internet service were dropping. It also hurt, in Philadelphia's case, that there was a major change at EarthLink, which went from being an advocate of municipal Wi-Fi to a company determined to cut costs. 
 Broadband service is no longer a luxury. It has become a basic part of the infrastructure of education and democracy. EarthLink should fulfill the commitments it made. Even in these tough economic times, cities should keep pushing municipal Wi-Fi and looking for partners and plans that can make it a reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); LIBRARIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



717 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Nationals Look for Fresh Start at New Stadium

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Look around. The cherry blossoms are in bloom, the pope is planning a visit and the presidential contest is taking its toll in fingernails. But the capital city is all fired up over -- wait for it -- baseball.
 The Washington Nationals, heir to a Civil War-vintage sporting tradition, planned to open their season on Sunday in a whimsically designed new ballpark about two miles southwest of Capitol Hill. After a winter of congressional hearings about steroids and the major league opener this week in Tokyo, the team will inaugurate the spring on American soil, playing the Atlanta Braves with a menu of hoopla that is scheduled to include ESPN, President Bush and jet fighters. 
 For some, the prospect of a stadium devoted to baseball has validated the arrival of the first major league franchise in a generation. Since moving to the city from Montreal in 2005, the Nationals have shared the 46-year-old R.F.K. Stadium with D.C. United of Major League Soccer.
 As opening day has drawn near, public commentary spared no facet of Nationals Park, including its hitting dimensions, its economic implications and such details as, in the words of one headline writer, ''Yes, You Can Bring Your Own Food to Ballpark.''
 ''Everyone's very excited,'' said Frank Ceresi, a lawyer and historian who provided photographs for a display inside the stadium. ''You can see people are starting to drive and stare at it.''
 Built along the Anacostia River in a part of the city where, until recently, many people did not get out of their cars, the ballpark has been financed entirely by taxpayers. Longing for baseball here dates to the Watergate-era departure of the chronically sorry Washington Senators; they were often said to keep the city ''first in war, first in peace and last in the American League.''
 The modern team became the Nationals as a ward of the league while the city council debated stadium plans. In 2003, the city offered more than $250 million to pay for two-thirds of the projected cost, but the league's negotiators walked away.
 In 2004, the league set a December deadline for an acceptable financing package, shut down a team merchandise store and took steps to begin refunding season-ticket deposits. After some tense negotiations, the city council voted by 7-6 to levy new business taxes and approve $534 million in bonds. Without a cap on costs to acquire the land, the price soon grew to more than $600 million.
 Protests accompanied the negotiations, taking a political toll.
 ''Even among stadium deals, it's pretty unusual for the city to cover 100 percent of the cost,'' said Ed Lazere, executive director of the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute, a research and advocacy group. ''The team got everything.''
 In 2006, Major League Baseball sold the Nationals to Theodore N. Lerner, an octogenarian and a real estate developer who had cast about for decades to buy a sports franchise.
 The team has failed to produce a winning season. Grandfathers on their deathbeds tell grandsons to cheer for the Redskins, but that kind of loyalty does not extend to every Washington team. As the Nationals settled into the basement of the National League East, average home attendance fell to 24,217 last year, from 33,651 in 2005.
 For the new stadium, architects from HOK of Kansas City designed a 1.1 million-square-foot complex with 41,888 seats, 78 luxury boxes, four restaurants and three stores. With precast concrete, glass and steel drawn in simple geometrical lines, they strayed from the national trend toward retro ballparks.
 ''We were really drawn from the influence of the monuments,'' said Jim Chibnall, the senior project designer.
 The stadium rose across the highway from tourist Washington, down by the Navy Yard. The area was already changing because of federal offices relocated from Virginia, said Brian McVay, an executive vice president of the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield.
 More development soon followed. Neighbors complained. Eglon Daley, who operates a picture framing business from a row house on N Street, said his property taxes had doubled since construction began.
 ''The projects are still here, the drugs are still here, the shooting is still here,'' said Daley, nodding at the stadium. ''I don't see where people on this side are getting a job over there.''
 Parking has also proved vexing. With room for only 1,325 cars in the elevated lots, season-ticket holders have been offering neighbors as much as $3,000 to use their curbside passes, said Ellen Sandel, a resident of Half Street.
 ''The customers don't have anywhere to park,'' said Mareme Ly, who was braiding hair at a beauty parlor on South Capitol Street.
 Around the stadium last week, areas marked as surface parking lots remained fenced and covered in dirt. Workers in hard hats drove forklifts. A crane blocked the front gate, where skylights awaited unpacking and turnstiles sat at odd angles.
 As the weekend approached, newspapers published special sections, the police announced security provisions and the city set two ambulance staging grounds, 19 policing units and a parking patrol.
 On Thursday night, the players arrived from spring training in Florida to tour the ballpark. Among them were third baseman Ryan Zimmerman, the Nationals' best player, and Odalis Perez, a 30-year-old left-hander added in the off-season for the rotation.
 Tickets for opening day have sold out. The Nationals have sold about 18,000 season tickets. The team's president, Stan Kasten, former president of the Braves, expounded on the ballpark's charms but said success would depend on the team's performance.
 ''When we sell you a ticket, it's not just your money we're asking for, it's four hours of your time,'' Kasten said. ''The team on the field needs to grow into what we're trying to build, and I think we're making progress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anthony Williams, left, was the mayor of Washington when the proposal for a new stadium was approved. On Sunday, the Nationals open at that stadium, Nationals Park.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CITY LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SOCCER (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



718 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2121 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 HOPES FOR SOMALIA GOVERNMENT
 Fade as Help Falls Short
 When the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia took power 15 months ago, backed by thousands of Ethiopian troops, it was widely hailed as the best chance in years to end Somalia's ceaseless cycles of war and suffering. But help has been short, and its leaders say that unless they get more, this transitional government will fall just like the 13 governments before it. PAGE A6
 KENYA COALITION DEADLOCKED
 A month after Kenya's president and its top opposition leader signed a power-sharing agreement supposed to usher in a ''grand coalition,'' they remained deadlocked over the formation of a new government. The two sides continued to bicker over cabinet posts. PAGE A9 
 LAWSUIT OVER WAR IS REJECTED
 A Japanese court rejected a defamation lawsuit against Kenzaburo Oe, above, the 1994 Nobel laureate in literature, agreeing with his depiction of involvement by the Japanese military in the mass suicides of civilians in Okinawa toward the end of World War II. The court threw out a $200,000 damage suit that was filed by a 91-year-old war veteran and another veteran's surviving relatives, who said there was no evidence of the military's involvement in the suicides. PAGE A6
 NORTH KOREA TESTS MISSILES
 North Korea test-fired short-range missiles off its western coast, threatened to slow down its promised disabling of nuclear weapons facilities and accused South Korea of sending warships across a disputed border. South Korea played down the missile launchings, saying that they were part of routine military training. A White House spokesman called the missile launchings ''not constructive.'' PAGE A7
 PROTESTERS GET LUNCH
 Roughly 20 Tibetan high school students scaled a brick wall surrounding the United Nations compound in Katmandu, Nepal, carrying a small homemade sign that read ''Free Tibet'' and asking the United Nations to help their cause, according to a United Nations spokesman. John Brittain, a spokesman for the United Nations, said the students were asked to write their grievances for United Nations officials and were treated to lunch. PAGE A9
 'Dignity,' or Dullness? A7
 Haditha Charges Dropped A8
 METRO
 CALL GIRL LINKED TO SPITZER KNEW REPUTED MOB FIGURE
 Federal investigators are said to have developed information that the prostitute whom Mr. Spitzer met in Washington last month has some relationship with a man alleged to be an associate of organized crime. PAGE B1
 LEAVING A MARK
 Since ''Rent'' started its Broadway run back in 1996, names big and small have been leaving written remembrances on the wall of the Nederlander Theater. (Look! There's Tom and Nicole, from 2001!) But the curtain is coming down on the show and the graffiti come September. PAGE B2
 CONNECTING THE DOTS
 As federal prosecutors were wrapping up their corruption case against the former mayor of Newark, N.J., Sharpe James, some people who have been following the trial questioned whether the government had established the links necessary to prove guilt. PAGE B2
 CONNECTICUT, READY FOR ITS CLOSEUP
 Since Connecticut introduced a generous tax credit in 2006 to lure film companies, the state has played host to dozens of feature films, television shows and commercials with a collective $400 million in production costs. Now that Connecticut has become a hotbed of Hollywood activity, New York State officials are trying to figure out how to stem the industry's exodus. PAGEB1 
 NATIONAL
 WHAT'S NEW ON THE BLACK MARKET? CATALYTIC CONVERTERS, OF COURSE
 Move over gold and silver. Thieves have discovered an easy payday from even more rarefied metals. It seems the easiest place to score some platinum is right under the hood of a car, where you can find catalytic converters. Stolen converters can net a couple of hundred dollars apiece. PAGE A10 
 STUDY EXAMINES FRAUD IN CHARITIES
 In San Francisco, an executive with a nonprofit organization was fired after he was accused of taking $3.6 million of the organization's money to play the stock market. Charity thefts may occur more often than initially thought, as a new study suggests that these are not ''just a few bad apples'' and for the first time tries to identify the overall scope of such thefts. PAGE A10
 GOVERNOR IS OUT AND BLAMES ROVE
 Former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama said he was convinced that politics played a leading role in his prosecution, after being released from prison on bond in a bribery and corruption case. ''His fingerprints are smeared all over the case,'' Mr. Siegelman said, repeatedly citing Karl Rove, the former White House political director. PAGE A13
 INMATE KILLED IN TEXAS PRISON FIGHT
 A federal prison in Texas erupted in violence when two gang-related fights broke out almost simultaneously in facing housing units, killing one inmate and injuring 22 others, officials said. This is the second fight in three weeks. Investigators said they had no evidence the two incidents were related beyond ongoing rivalry between powerful prison gangs. PAGE A10
 HOSPITALS GET BAD REVIEWS
 Not happy with your experience at hospitals? You're not alone. Many hospital patients are dissatisfied with some aspects of their care and might not recommend their hospitals to friends and relatives, the federal government said as it issued ratings for most of the nation's hospitals, based on the first uniform national survey of patients. PAGE A13
 BUSINESS
 IS IT A BIRD OR A PLANE? 
 No, it's an Inheritance
 The creators of Superman sold their character to Detective Comics for $130 seven decades ago. Think they wish they could fly around the earth and turn back time? For their heirs, a federal judge in California did the next best thing: ruling that they were entitled to reclaim a share of the character's United States copyright from Time Warner. PAGE B3
 AIRLINES MAY RESTART MERGER TALKS
 The stalled merger talks between Northwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines may be on again. Northwest has asked Delta if it would like to restart merger talks, even though air carriers have been at odds over how to combine their all-important seniority lists. Page B4
 PUSHING THE SWISS TO OPEN UP
 A large German tax-evasion scandal has brought fresh scrutiny to Switzerland, whose fabled banking laws provide discretion for the wealthy -- who stash their money there outside of the reach of tax collectors to the tune of $1 to $2 trillion. Other countries in Europe want to reach a middle ground with the Swiss in criminal cases, but that would violate the secrecy Swiss clients treasure. PAGE C1
 5-WAY DIVISION OF IAC ALLOWED
 A Delaware Chancery Court judge ruled that Barry Diller could go forward with a plan to split his e-commerce conglomerate IAC/InterActiveCorp into five companies, thwarting an attempt by John C. Malone to block the deal and oust him. Mr. Diller can now go ahead with his plan to break IAC into five companies. The ruling left the door open for Mr. Malone to challenge the break-up plan if it is approved by IAC's board. PAGE B1
 The Real Cost of Owning a Pet C1
 Coping with Credit Card Debt C6
 SPORTS
 A PUBLICLY FINANCED OBJECT 
 Of the Capital's Affection
 Major League Baseball's Washington Nationals are set to debut their new stadium, which is nestled along the Anacostia River and was paid for entirely with taxpayer money. The new ballpark has reinvigorated the love for baseball in Washington that lay dormant since the departure of the chronically sorry Washington Senators in the 1970's. PAGE D6
 THE LOST OLYMPIC GAMES OF 1980
 Sports of the Times: The decision by the United States to boycott the 1980 Olympics in Moscow remains a bitter pill all these years later for some of the American athleteswho were not allowed to compete as a result. With calls for boycotts of this year's Olympic games in Beijing, Harvey Araton wonders whether sports can ever be free from the manipulations of the state. PAGE D1
 CHEWING ON LE CHAW
 Last June, Joris Bert became the first Frenchman ever selected in the Major League Baseball draft. The Dodgers envision the 20-year-old -- creatively nicknamed ''Frenchie'' by his minor league teammates -- as a speedy lead-off hitter. His parents, who have never seen him play in the United States, don't see the big deal. ''French people, they don't like it ,'' Bert says. ''They think it's boring.'' PAGE D1
 Obituaries
 ROBERT FAGLES, 74
 A renowned translator of Latin and Greek whose versions of Homer and Virgil were unlikely best-sellers and became fixtures on classroom reading lists, he died on Wednesday at his home in New Jersey, where he was an emeritus professor at Princeton University. PAGE A15
 HARVEY PICKER, 92
 The former president and chairman of an X-ray equipment maker whose wife's illness inspired him to start a foundation that is considered a leader in promoting patient-friendly medical care, he died on March 22 at his home in Camden, Me. PAGE A15
 WILLIAM G. HYLAND, 79
 An aide who helped shape United States foreign policy, particularly toward the Soviet Union, as a top-level bureaucrat and who then became editor of the journal Foreign Affairs, he died on Tuesday in Fairfax, Va. PAGE A15
 CULTURE
 APPRAISING RICHARD WIDMARK
 Richard Widmark, the movie actor who passed away this week at the age of 93, was one of the many leading men of his generation who starting out playing villains. But Dave Kehr writes that even though Mr. Widmark couldn't completely shake the perception of him -- ''morally flawed, unpredictably violent'' -- that image gave him latitude to vacillate between heroes and heavies with relative ease. PAGE B7
 GRAND OPERA'S GRAND OLD MAN
 Franco Zeffirelli, who is known for his grandiose -- some would say ostentatious -- opera productions, thinks the genre is supposed to be full of visual splendor. ''I am the most correct living opera director,'' he says. His shadow continues to loom large at the Metropolitan Opera, which is holding a four-day commemoration in honor of the 85-year-old director whose work is still part of its inventory. PAGE B9 
 PARTNERS, BUT A VERY DIFFERENT PAIR
 Jay-Z and Mary J. Blige, who have collaborated often, create their music with very different outlooks. ''For Jay-Z, the success is up front; for Ms. Blige, the struggles are,'' writes Jon Pareles, who reviews the Madison Square Garden stop on the pair's ''Heart of the City'' tour. PAGE B7
 Prokofiev's 'Gambler' Reviewed B7
 Editorial
 INCOMING AT THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE
 Gov. David Paterson of New York is being bombarded from all sides. The state budget is due Monday at midnight, congestion pricing needs to be approved within days and the plan to replace an atrocity known as Penn Station with Moynihan Station, a glorious new gateway to the city, is suddenly in limbo. Mr. Paterson can win these battles, but none will be easy. PAGE A16
 MORE FLIM FLAM ON WARMING
 One year has passed since the Supreme Court ruled that the Clean Air Act empowered the Environmental Protection Agency to address greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks, and nothing has happened. It appears that the E.P.A. administrator, Stephen Johnson, recently tried to do the right thing, but his efforts tumbled into a black hole at the White House. PAGE A16
 PLASTIC CARD TRICKS
 Americans are struggling with a rocky economy while they are also holding almost $1 trillion in credit card debt. The ''tricks and traps'' in those cards have an increasing number of people defaulting. One bank contract even states: ''We reserve the right to change the terms at any time for any reason.'' Americans deserve better. PAGE A16
 Op-Ed
 TIMOTHY EGAN
 The plan for a border wall has hit a wall. In the two months since immigration briefly dominated the 2008 campaign, much has happened on the issue in Arizona. PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS
 McCain is going to be the Republican presidential nominee. Really. While you were watching Hillary and Barack in the Campaign That Never Ends, the Republicans picked him. PAGE A17
 THIS WEEKEND
 TRAVEL
 Milan Kundera's ''Unbearable Lightness of Being'' is not the novel to read to inspire a love affair with Prague, depicting as it does a time when the Soviet Union could still crack down on an underling. But it provides a useful perspective for today's city. PAGE 7
 SUNDAY MAGAZINE
 Harvard's chastity club -- yes, you read that right -- has sent cards to the freshman class the past two years urging members to wait until marriage for sex: ''Because you're worth it.'' PAGE 38 
 BOOK REVIEW
 The hint: It's a legal thriller with a two-word title, and the heroes are a husband-wife team of lawyers with a small practice in Mississippi. The question: Who wrote this book? PAGE 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (86%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); VETERANS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); SUICIDE (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) SOMALIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); TIBET (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); NEPAL (92%); KENYA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



719 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Gone With the Cash: Films Go for the Best Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
Martin Scorsese's crime drama ''The Departed'' may be a paean to the city of Boston, but a number of scenes featuring Leonardo DiCaprio were shot at the county courthouse and library here. It was a surprisingly apt title, since 2007, the year ''The Departed'' won the Academy Award for Best Picture, was also the year that many film and television shoots departed -- for Connecticut.
 With a proud film history dating back almost a century, to D. W. Griffith's creation of a 28-acre production lot in Mamaroneck, Westchester County is increasingly watching production companies be lured across the border to Connecticut, which now offers them a 30 percent tax credit, compared with New York State's 10 percent.
 Since the Connecticut tax credit took effect in July 2006, that state has gone from playing host to the occasional film shoot (remember ''Mystic Pizza''?) to attracting 66 feature films, television shows and commercials with a collective $400 million in production costs, the majority of it in the Fairfield County suburbs of New York. 
 At the same time, similar suburbs across the border in Westchester County have seen their film shoots shrivel. In 2006, Westchester was the setting for scenes from 14 big-budget features, as well as numerous independent films; last year, two movies were partially shot here.
 And Blue Sky Studios, the company behind ''Horton Hears a Who'' and ''Ice Age,'' recently announced that it would leave downtown White Plains for Greenwich, Conn., by the end of the year. The studio, a unit of Fox Filmed Entertainment, with 300 employees, was drawn by generous digital-animation and infrastructure tax credits that Connecticut created two years ago.
 ''We just sat back and rested on our laurels,'' said Iris Stevens, director of Westchester's Film Office. ''New York was one of the early states to create an incentive program, but then we went into cruise control and didn't follow through. The film industry, quite frankly, has no loyalties. They're going to go where they get the best deal, which makes perfect sense.''
 Clearly caught off guard by Connecticut's campaign for film business, state officials in New York are rushing to address the imbalance. 
 New York City is somewhat insulated from the changes, thanks to its iconic skyline and the fact that the city government gives production companies an additional 5 percent tax credit, but it, too, has seen a decline in film shoots. The state's 10 percent film credit is dwarfed not only by Connecticut's, but also by the 25 percent credit in Massachusetts and the 20 percent credit in New Jersey. 
 ''I'm keenly aware of the competition next door -- really on all sides,'' said Steven Englebright, an assemblyman from Suffolk County, on Long Island, who heads the Assembly's Tourism, Arts and Sports Development Committee. ''I think Connecticut is being somewhat carnivorous toward New York. Their long-term view seems to be to build an infrastructure and make an early investment in what is going to be a long-term tug of war between our two states. They want what we have.''
 It did not take long for the effects of Connecticut's new incentives to be felt across the border, said Pat Swinney Kaufman, executive director of the New York Governor's Office for Motion Picture and Television Development. In the 12 months before the introduction of Connecticut's tax credit, the New York State film office received 60 applications from feature films for the incentive, with a projected total expenditure of $966 million. In the 12 months after, there were 39 applications, with a total projected budget of $215 million. 
 ''It's a very dramatic drop,'' Ms. Kaufman said.
 Not only is Connecticut attracting location shoots, but it has also encouraged the development of soundstages. Disney's ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' is now in production on a soundstage that opened last spring; construction will soon begin on six more soundstages in Norwalk. 
 While Connecticut is not publicly gloating, it is certainly celebrating. Economic development officials are hoping, in particular, to build on the momentum of Blue Sky's decision to relocate. ''We're real excited,'' said Joan McDonald, commissioner of Connecticut's Department of Economic and Community Development. ''People call it digital animation, but they're high-tech jobs, and they're high-tech jobs that young people like. There's a real energy.'' 
 None of this has escaped the notice of Mr. Englebright's colleagues in the New York Legislature, but with the state facing an April 1 deadline for a budget -- and a projected $4.6 billion shortfall -- and the capital still recovering from Gov. Eliot Spitzer's abrupt resignation, the film tax credit's fate is unclear.
 In his proposed budget, Mr. Spitzer had called for raising the tax credit to 15 percent and applying it to many more expenses than allowed under the current one. 
 The Spitzer proposal is similar to one now being hashed out in the Senate, while the Assembly wants to match Connecticut's 30 percent, but would continue to limit the kinds of expenses covered. Gov. David A. Paterson is now evaluating all three versions, Ms. Kaufman said. 
 The Assembly version would restrict the types of expenses the credit covers -- what is known in the industry as ''below the line'' costs, like crews' wages, wardrobe, props, catering, location fees and equipment rentals. In New York, ''above the line'' costs -- money paid for the script, for example, as well as wages for writers, directors, producers and most actors -- are not currently covered, while they are in Connecticut.
 More than half the states now offer some type of film tax incentive, but the fine print can vary widely. In Mississippi, for instance, there is a 20 percent to 30 percent tax rebate, depending on the amount of local spending, along with a 10 percent rebate on payroll for nonresidents. In New Mexico, there is a 25 percent tax rebate on all production expenditures, as well as a 50 percent wage reimbursement for on-the-job training of residents in advanced crew positions. And Oregon gives production companies, among other things, 20 percent back on all goods and services from state vendors and does not charge a fee to film in state parks.
 But some have begun to question the value of these incentives. In Rhode Island, the Senate finance committee considered a proposal this month to cap the state's 25 percent film and television credit at $10 million a year (it is projected to cost the state $18.6 million in lost revenue). 
 In Massachusetts, tax watchdogs have also raised doubts. Barbara Anderson, executive director of the Center for Limited Taxation, recently told The Boston Globe, ''This is about politicians rubbing elbows with Hollywood celebrities.'' 
 Some in the film industry say New York remains more attractive than Connecticut once producers factor in commuting time for New York-based crew and cast members, as well as the possibility of putting them in hotels, especially if the shoot is deep into the state.
 ''If you make all the movies in Greenwich or Norwalk, you're going to run out of locations pretty quickly,'' said Ezra Swerdlow, a longtime producer based in New York who was executive producer of the Disney film ''Enchanted.'' 
 ''Even though the New York credit is a little smaller,'' he said, ''it's not eaten up by the amount of people you have to bring in.''
 ''The good news is that Connecticut could spur the New York credit higher,'' he added. ''We don't see it as a death struggle between the two states so much as the creation of more opportunities.''
 One of the first to sound the alarm over the loss of shoots in New York was William J. Ryan, chairman of Westchester County's Board of Legislators. As the second vice president of the New York State Association of Counties, he persuaded the association's board to pass a unanimous resolution last fall urging the state to increase the tax credit. 
 Mr. Ryan said that film and television production in the state had a far-ranging effect on local businesses, including caterers, hardware stores, hotels and restaurants. Official estimates place the overall economic benefit from film and television production in New York State between $8 billion and $12 billion. 
 ''It's definitely dried up over the past 15 to 18 months,'' said Craig Pellis, owner of Silver Spoon Catering in Mount Kisco, referring to orders from filmmakers. ''It was always a piece of the business. It was exciting when we had a chance to see one of the stars.''
 Steve Kirshoff, whose special-effects company KFX in Port Chester, N.Y., is on the border of Connecticut and New York, said he was feeling the pull of Connecticut. ''In the last year and a half we've had a piece of six movies shot in Connecticut,'' he said. ''Westchester is where my shop happens to be, but you never work in Westchester.''
 Mr. Ryan, the county legislator, said he thought the tax credit had ''to be 30 percent just so we can compete.''
 ''If you need the Empire State Building, you can't very well say, 'I'll go to Connecticut,' '' he noted. ''But if you need the countryside or suburbia or a quaint little village, there are a number of places you can go in the Northeast.''
 Brian A. Keane, chief operating officer of Blue Sky Studios, said he had searched the region for office space that would allow his young staff, which includes oil painters and physicists, to work together on a single floor with high ceilings, rather than the three floors it now occupies here in White Plains. 
 In Greenwich, Blue Sky will take over a single floor (of 105,000 square feet) in a building on 150 acres with jogging trails and bike paths; the company is even planning to build a basketball court for its employees. 
 ''I'm a born and bred New Yorker, and I live in New York,'' said Mr. Keane, whose ''Horton'' movie, now in theaters, is expected to exceed $100 million in sales this weekend. ''We did an extraordinary amount of due diligence. It came down to the timing, the significance and serenity of the location and the tax credit. The tax credit was clearly an enticement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blue Sky Studios, the company behind ''Horton Hears a Who'' and ''Ice Age,'' is leaving White Plains for Greenwich, Conn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Connecticut offers producers a 30 percent tax credit. Above, an Indiana Jones movie being filmed in New Haven last summer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); CITIES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); ANIMATION (71%); FILM HISTORY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); MOVIE FILMING (58%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



720 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: 3 Firms Are Asked for Data On Auction-Rate Shares

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
The top securities regulator in Massachusetts has subpoenaed Merrill Lynch, UBS Securities and Banc of America Investment Services for information relating to their sales of auction-rate preferred shares. 
 Auction-rate preferred securities were often sold as an alternative to money-market funds, but have stopped trading because of the credit crisis.
 Officials at UBS Securities, meanwhile, confirmed that the firm would begin marking down the value of these securities and auction-rate notes held in clients' accounts, to reflect the fact that they cannot be sold. Until Friday, client statements had valued the securities at their cost to investors. UBS said the values could drop by as much as 20 percent. 
 Some $330 billion worth of auction-rate securities have been issued by municipalities, nonprofit entities and closed-end mutual funds. They are debt obligations and take the form of either notes or preferred shares. 
 Some investors who hold these securities say their brokers assured them that the shares were safe. That is because every seven days, investors could sell their shares at an auction that also determined the rate of interest they would receive. As the credit crisis deepened in recent months, however, these auctions started failing because investors wanted to sell but no one wanted to buy. 
 William F. Galvin, Massachusetts' secretary of the commonwealth, said in a statement Friday: ''Within the last couple of weeks, my office has received many calls from people who thought they were investing in safe, liquid investments only to find that they had, in fact, purchased auction market securities that are now frozen and they cannot get their money.''
 Merrill Lynch, UBS and Banc of America Investment Services, a Bank of America unit, all declined to comment. 
 Marten Hoekstra, head of wealth management for the Americas at UBS, in reference to the bank's decision to mark down the value of the securities in clients' accounts, said it was ''in the best interests of our clients to provide them full transparency regarding their accounts.''
 ''Given current market dislocation, this is the next logical step for any committed wealth manager,'' he said. The firm is working with others in this market to bring it back to normal as soon as possible, Mr. Hoekstra added.
 Mr. Galvin is focusing on preferred shares issued by closed-end funds, a $65 billion market. He said he wanted to determine whether brokers informed their clients of liquidity risks and to examine the role that the investment banks might have played in the events that led the market to freeze up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREFERRED STOCK (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: BANC OF AMERICA INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



721 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: For Stocks, It's the Wild West, East ...

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE American stock market endured a first quarter of vastly increased volatility, with prices collapsing one day and soaring the next. When the period ends on Monday, share prices will have suffered their worst losses in more than five years. 
 And American investors will have done better than most.
 Stock market volatility has soared around the world, and losses in many countries have been far worse than in the United States, where the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks was down 10.4 percent through Friday. 
 That decline is horrid by historical standards, but it is not bad compared with the performance in many other countries. 
 The United States stock market had 12 sessions in which share prices rose or fell more than 2 percent in one day -- something that did not happen even once in 2004 or 2005. 
 The biggest one-day change in the S.& P. 500 came just last week, when it soared 4.2 percent on March 18 as the Federal Reserve sharply cut interest rates and some investment banks reported better-than-expected profits. That was the largest daily move for the index since Oct. 15, 2002, when it soared 4.7 percent a few days after the end of the bear market that followed the bursting of the technology stock bubble.
 But by international standards, a 4.2 percent daily move seemed almost tame. In France, the CAC 40 index fell 6.8 percent in a day, but it rose 6 percent on another day. The DAX index in Germany dropped 7.2 percent on its worst day. Even staid Britain had bigger moves than New York.
 In Asia, where markets have long been more volatile than in either Europe or America, the moves were even more startling. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong gained 10.7 percent on one day, and lost 8.7 percent on another. In India, the Sensex index fell 7.4 percent on its worst day in the quarter, even worse than the 7.2 percent drop in the Shanghai composite in China. But the Chinese index did rise 8.1 percent on its best day.
 European markets this year have had about as many days with big moves as the United States, but Asian markets had as many as 27 days in which the leading index showed a 2 percent move or better.
 Such wild moves meant that someone with perfect market timing could have gotten very rich indeed. But those who buy and hold generally did poorly. The best performer of the 12 markets shown in the accompanying graphic was Canada, but even investors there lost money. Chinese investors lost about a third of their money in three months.
 In the United States, volatility has often increased around the time of changes in market direction, as evidence of changed conditions clashes with expectation of more of the same. In 2002, volatility soared as the stock market approached and hit bottom. Volatility had also risen in 2000 and 2001, as the previous bull market was ending.
 But financial turmoil can also produce soaring volatility, as happened in 1998 when a Russian default on debt and the collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund alarmed investors.
 This year's volatility clearly reflects the financial crisis. Whether it also signals a long-term change in stock market direction is not so obvious.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: U.S. MARKET VOLATILTY HITS 5-YEAR HIGH . . .: Days each quarter in which the S.&P. 500 closed at least 2 percent above or below the previous close. . . . BUT OTHER MARKETS ARE MORE VOLATILE: First-quarter volatility for international indexes (Source: Bloomberg) Graphs showing that the United States market is volatile, but not as volatile as international markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



722 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: High Rice Cost Creating Fears Of Asia Unrest

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HANOI 

 BODY:
Rising prices and a growing fear of scarcity have prompted some of the world's largest rice producers to announce drastic limits on the amount of rice they export.
 The price of rice, a staple in the diets of nearly half the world's population, has almost doubled on international markets in the last three months. That has pinched the budgets of millions of poor Asians and raised fears of civil unrest.
 Shortages and high prices for all kinds of food have caused tensions and even violence around the world in recent months. Since January, thousands of troops have been deployed in Pakistan to guard trucks carrying wheat and flour. Protests have erupted in Indonesia over soybean shortages, and China has put price controls on cooking oil, grain, meat, milk and eggs.
 Food riots have erupted in recent months in Guinea, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Senegal, Uzbekistan and Yemen. But the moves by rice-exporting nations over the last two days -- meant to ensure scarce supplies will meet domestic needs -- drove prices on the world market even higher this week. 
 This has fed the insecurity of rice-importing nations, already increasingly desperate to secure supplies. On Tuesday, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines, afraid of increasing rice scarcity, ordered government investigators to track down hoarders. 
 The increase in rice prices internationally promised to put more pressure on prices in the United States, which imports more than 30 percent of the rice Americans consume, according to the United States Rice Producers Association. The price that consumers pay for rice has already increased more than 8 percent over the last year. 
 But the United States is fortunate in also exporting rice; poor countries ranging from Sengal in West Africa to the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific are heavily dependent on imports and now face higher bills. 
 Vietnam's government announced here on Friday that it would cut rice exports by nearly a quarter this year. The government hoped that keeping more rice inside the country would hold down prices. 
 The same day, India effectively banned the export of all but the most expensive grades of rice. Egypt announced on Thursday that it would impose a six-month ban on rice exports, starting April 1, and on Wednesday, Cambodia banned all rice exports except by government agencies.
 Governments across Asia and in many rice-consuming countries in Africa have long worried that a steep increase in prices could set off an angry reaction among low-income city dwellers.
 ''There is definitely the potential for unrest, particularly as the people most affected are the urban poor and they're concentrated, so it's easier for them to organize than it would be for farmers, for example, to organize to protest lower prices,'' said Nicholas W. Minot, a senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington.
 Several factors are contributing to the steep rice in prices. Rising affluence in India and China has increased demand. At the same time, drought and other bad weather have reduced output in Australia and elsewhere. Many rice farmers are turning to more lucrative cash crops, reducing the amount of land devoted to the grain. And urbanization and industrialization have cut into the land devoted to rice cultivation.
 In Vietnam, an obscure plant virus has caused annual output to start leveling off; it had increased significantly each year until the last three years.
 Until the last few years, the potential for rapid price swings was damped by the tendency of many governments to hold very large rice stockpiles to ensure food security, said Sushil Pandey, an agricultural economist at the International Rice Research Institute in Manila.
 But those stockpiles were costly to maintain. So governments have been drawing them down as world rice consumption has outstripped production for most of the last decade.
 The relatively small quantities traded across borders, combined with small stockpiles, now mean that prices can move quickly in response to supply disruptions. 
 At the same time, prices set in international rice trading now have an increasingly important effect on prices within countries. This has been particularly true in an age of Internet and mobile phone communications when even farmers in remote areas can learn about distant prices and decide whether their own buyers are giving them a fair price.
 Even before governments imposed restrictions this week, trading companies in exporting nations had become increasingly reluctant to sign contracts for future delivery as they wait to see how high prices will go.
 ''The market has pretty much ground to a halt for the past few weeks,'' said Ben Savage, the managing director for rice at Jackson Son & Company, a commodities trading firm in London. Soaring prices are already causing hardship across the developing world. 
 In a crumbling covered market in an old neighborhood of Hanoi, Cao Minh Huong, a ceramics saleswoman, said that rising food prices, especially for rice, were forcing her to change her diet. ''I'm spending the same amount on food but I'm getting less,'' she said.
 Together with rising prices for other foods, like wheat, soybeans, pork and cooking oil, higher rice prices are also contributing to inflation in many developing countries. Retail rice prices have already jumped by as much as 60 percent in recent months in Vietnam, trailing increases in wholesale prices but leading a broader acceleration in inflation. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung of Vietnam announced Wednesday that the government's top priority now was fighting inflation. Overall consumer prices are more than 19 percent higher this month than last March. . The inflation rate has nearly tripled in the last year. 
 Rice is unusual among major agricultural commodities in that most of the major rice-consuming countries are self-sufficient or nearly so. Only 7 percent of the world's rice production is traded across international borders each year, according to figures from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. 
 Nguyen Van Bo, the president of the Vietnam Academy of Agricultural Sciences, which oversees government farm research institutes, said in an interview that the government expected rice production to rise further by 2010 despite the rapid expansion of residential housing and factories into what had been prime rice-growing land. But the government needs to train farmers to alternate corn with rice to defeat rice pests like the virus, he said.
 Vietnam, Egypt and India all limited rice exports last year, but the limits were much less drastic and were imposed much later in the year, after much more rice had been shipped.
 The government of Thailand, the world's largest rice exporter followed by Vietnam, has not yet limited exports. But a national debate has started in Thailand over whether to do so ,and Thai exporters have already practically stopped signing delivery contracts, Mr. Savage said.
 Even before Friday's export restrictions by Vietnam and India, bids for commonly traded grades of Thai medium-grain rice had doubled this year to $735 a metric ton. Vietnamese medium-grain rice had almost doubled to more than $700 a ton, with most of the increase coming in the last four weeks. Bids jumped as much as $50 a ton on Friday.
 Governments have been reluctant to tell farmers to sell their rice at low fixed prices, for fear that farmers would hoard rice or not bother to grow as much as they could. On Friday, China, which is virtually self-sufficient in rice, raised the minimum prices for rice and wheat that it guarantees to farmers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); RICE MARKETS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RIOTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); AFRICA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); GUINEA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MOROCCO (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); VIETNAM (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



723 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: To Protest Fuel Costs, Truckers Plan Idle Day

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
Dan Little says $4-a-gallon diesel fuel and other soaring costs forced him to temporarily halt his cattle-hauling business in Missouri several days ago, and he may have persuaded truckers across the country to pull their rigs off the road next week.
 Soon after Mr. Little posted a rant about his vanishing profits on a Web site that he runs to help livestock carriers find loads to carry, he started hearing from colleagues in other states promising to join him in a nationwide trucker shutdown on April 1. Numerous drivers have used their time at home or at Internet-equipped truck stops this month to spread word of the idea on Web sites like OvertimeTruckers.com and even MySpace, the social networking site. 
 It might sound like an April Fool's Day joke, but Mr. Little and other independent truckers, what the industry calls owner-operators, say they are serious about their plans to stop accepting freight on Tuesday. 
 ''Somebody in Washington that's a lot smarter than I am needs to take a look at this industry,'' said Mr. Little, 49, whose nearly 100-year-old company has been passed down through three generations in his family. ''If you're losing money going to work, then what's the sense in going to work? We're either going to go broke with our trucks parked or we're going broke out on the highway wearing our trucks out.''
 Officials at several organizations that represent independent truckers say that a widespread shutdown could have a noticeable effect on the country's transportation network within a matter of days. But David Owen, president of the National Association of Small Trucking Companies, who does not support the protest, said he doubted that would happen.
 Truckers have tried to organize shutdowns in the past, with little success. During the fuel crises of the 1970s, many truckers did participate in such actions, but prices did not go down.
 ''I'm sympathetic with the idea behind the stoppage, but I'm not optimistic about it,'' said Mr. Owen, who said he saw ''a lot fewer smiles'' at the Mid-America Trucking Show this week in Louisville, Ky. ''We're not recommending that our guys stop running. Every time that happens, the people that get hurt are the people that stop running.''
 Still, about 250 drivers in Georgia plan to form a convoy Tuesday from Macon to Atlanta before turning off their trucks for at least three days, said Sheila Walker, a log hauler who has organized several meetings for local drivers to plan the protest.
 ''I've got plenty of backbone, and I'm not scared. I'm not backing down,'' said Ms. Walker, 48. ''This is how I make my living. And I can't make my living when fuel prices have doubled since 2006 but the pay at the mills has not gone up. We're getting the same pay to haul that we've gotten for several years.''
 Ms. Walker, who has run Walker Trucking since her husband died of a heart attack in 2004, said that three of her paychecks in the last few months were less than her fuel bills during those periods.
 Historically, diesel fuel has been cheaper than gasoline, but that changed after requirements for ultra-low-sulfur diesel took effect several years ago. The average price of diesel fuel reached a record high of $4.037 a gallon last week, according to the AAA motor club. That is about $1.25, or 45 percent, more than a year ago.
 Every 5-cent increase in fuel prices increases a trucker's annual expenses by about $1,000, according to the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association, which on Friday asked Congress to help drivers collect more fuel surcharges.
 ''It's not a good time to own your own rig,'' said Chip White, a transportation and logistics professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology. ''It's a tough life even when the economy is reasonably good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Truck drivers at a protest last week at a truck stop in Harrisburg, Pa. Diesel costs are up about 45 percent from a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GARDNER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); TRUCKING (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (68%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (68%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



724 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Real Estate

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
IN more than 300 cities and counties across the United States, residential developers are asked -- or forced -- to include a certain amount of affordable housing in their projects. Critics say that such ''inclusionary zoning'' policies reduce the number of homes built and drive up prices.
 Not so, says a report from the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, which studied how the programs affected housing in San Francisco, Boston and Washington (wagner.nyu.edu/centers/furman.php). If there are jumps in prices, they are minimal. The report said ''there is no evidence'' in the San Francisco area that inclusionary zoning affects ''either the prices or production of single-family houses.'' In suburban Boston, the policy ''seems to have resulted in small decreases in production and slight increases in the prices of single-family houses.'' 
 The report also concluded, however, that inclusionary zoning by itself does not do all that much to create affordable housing. ''Our analysis refutes the 'sky is falling' cries from I.Z. opponents,'' Vicki Been, the Furman Center's director, said in an interview with Brownstoner, a Brooklyn-based real estate blog (brownstoner.com). But, she added, such policies seem to create only a ''modest number'' of affordable units. Inclusionary zoning may help, but it ''is not a panacea for a community's affordable housing challenges.''
 RATES AND COMMODITIES Prices of commodities, from copper to corn, have been soaring. Until recently, it was easy enough to cite rising worldwide demand as the cause of the increases. But in recent months, some economics bloggers argue, it has become apparent that Federal Reserve policies are driving the market.
 There are specific reasons for the price increases in individual commodities. ''But it cannot be a coincidence that mineral and agricultural prices have risen virtually across the board,'' according to Jeffrey Frankel, a professor of economics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''Some macroeconomic explanation is called for,'' he wrote on the blog Vox (voxeu.org). 
 Demand, especially in developing countries, may have explained the market until recently. But now that economies are slowing, some other explanation is needed, he said. According to Mr. Frankel, low interest rates make it cheaper to carry inventories and for speculators to move out of Treasury bills, for example, and into commodities. 
 James Hamilton, a professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego, agrees. In January and February, he notes on his blog Econbrowser, ''the economic news was getting bleaker by the day, eventually persuading many of us that a recession has likely started. 
 ''To argue that January and February's news instead signaled booming commodity demand strains credulity.'' 
 But he shows how moves by the Fed seem to have influenced commodity prices (econbrowser.com). For instance, he wrote, when the Fed lowered interest rates on March 18 by ''only'' three-quarters of a point (less than many people had expected), it was ''interesting to note how dramatically commodity prices responded to the news'' -- they fell substantially.
 TRIED TIN FOIL? The city of Sebastopol, Calif., was all set to offer free wireless Internet service. Then last week the City Council rejected the idea after several residents complained that the radio waves pose a health hazard. ''I have had health challenges, and my body cannot handle Wi-Fi,'' one resident was quoted as saying. ''It gives me headaches and makes me very sick.'' 
 As for the complainers, ''I can only be glad that they weren't alive when the city decided on electrification a century ago,'' wrote Dale Dougherty on the blog of O'Reilly Media, a publisher of technology books that has its headquarters in Sebastopol (radar.oreilly.com). DAN MITCHELL
 E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX EBEN MEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RECESSION (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); AGRICULTURE (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



725 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Report Sketches Crime Costing Billions: Theft From Charities

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The volunteer treasurer of the Madison County Humane Society in Indiana was charged this month with using $65,000 of the charity's money to buy jewelry and makeup. In San Francisco, the chief financial officer of the Music Concourse Community Partnership was fired after he was accused of taking $3.6 million of the organization's money to play the stock market.
 Nonprofit leaders tend to shrug off such cases as evidence of ''just a few bad apples.'' But a new report, trying to identify the scope of such thefts for the first time, suggests otherwise.
 The report, by four professors who specialize in nonprofit accounting, found that the typical theft from a charity was committed by a female employee with no criminal record who earned less than $50,000 a year and had worked for the nonprofit at least three years. The amount she stole was less than $40,000. 
 The most costly cases, the study found, involved male executives earning $100,000 to $149,000 a year. The thieves in such cases had typically been with the organization the longest.
 But what is getting the attention of nonprofit leaders is the report's estimate of the overall cost, which the authors put at $40 billion for 2006, or some 13 percent of the roughly $300 billion given to charity that year.
 ''It's a surprisingly large number,'' said Paul C. Light, a professor of public service at New York University who does surveys of public confidence in charities. ''We really need to take a good hard look at what's going on in these organizations.''
 The new report is based on data from the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, which, the report said, found that ''all organizations,'' whether government, for-profit or nonprofit, ''lose on average 6 percent of their revenue to fraud every year.'' Applying that percentage to nonprofits' total 2006 revenue of $665 billion -- donations, government payments and other income -- the authors came up with the $40 billion estimate.
 ''Determining how much theft and embezzlement takes place has been the holy grail of the sector,'' said Jack B. Siegel, a tax lawyer who specializes in nonprofit matters.
 If the $40 billion figure is accurate, then the money lost to fraud equaled the combined giving by corporations and foundations in 2006, said Diana Aviv, president and chief executive of the Independent Sector, which represents nonprofit groups.
 But Ms. Aviv expressed skepticism about the report, noting that it relied on the fraud examiners association's estimate of overall fraud across all sectors, including government and corporate.
 ''They're lumping all those sectors together, and it could be that the for-profit sector experiences a higher level of fraud, while the nonprofit sector and government experience lower levels,'' Ms. Aviv said.
 Nonetheless, she said, ''even if the figure is $20 billion, that's still a huge amount and needs to be addressed.'' 
 The report, published in the December 2007 issue of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, found that losses to fraud among the 58 cases reported to the fraud examiners association in a random survey of nonprofits ranged from $200 to $17 million, with the median fraud costing $100,000.
 ''Most of these things are not caught by routine audits,'' said Gary Snyder, who tracks nonprofit fraud in his newsletter, Nonprofit Imperative. ''They're usually done by someone in the financial area -- the treasurer, the bookkeeper, the signer of checks -- who knows how to avoid getting caught.''
 Almost 95 percent of the reported frauds entailed loss of cash, and a majority of those involved false or inflated invoices, billing for expenses that were never incurred and check tampering.
 ''I gave a talk to a group of nonprofit executives a few weeks ago, and every single one of them had a fraud story to tell,'' said one of the report's authors, Janet S. Greenlee, an associate professor of accounting at the University of Dayton. ''This has been going on for years, but there's a feeling that it shouldn't be discussed,'' because of the effect it might have on donations.
 Professor Greenlee -- joined in the report by Mary Fischer of the University of Texas at Tyler, Teresa P. Gordon of the University of Idaho and Elizabeth K. Keating of Boston College -- said the failure of organizations to punish those who steal from them was perhaps one of the biggest reasons for fraud in the sector. She said she had worked at organizations that refused to dismiss employees caught stealing.
 Professor Light, at N.Y.U., said some 70 percent of respondents to a new survey among the general public thought charities wasted ''a great deal'' or ''a fair amount.'' 
 ''Donors have already indicated,'' he added, ''that they don't have a great deal of faith in the way these groups handle money.''
 But it will now be harder for charities to hide fraud, because beginning with tax forms they must file for 2008, the Internal Revenue Service has added a question requiring them to disclose whether they have experienced theft, embezzlement or other fraud during the year.
 ''Not only will that eventually give us a much better idea of how widespread fraud is with these groups, it also gives them an incentive to have better financial controls,'' said Mr. Siegel, the tax lawyer, who is credited with the idea of adding the question to the tax forms.
 Mr. Siegel used to track cases of fraud among charities but ''got bored,'' he said, because there were so many of them.
 Newspapers routinely report incidents of nonprofit fraud in their communities, but the amounts tend to be small and thus go unnoticed at a national level.
 Mr. Snyder, the tracker of nonprofit fraud in his newsletter, said that through use of databases and other searches, he had stumbled across more than $700 million in fraud already this year among government agencies and nonprofits, including church-related organizations.
 Asked about his favorite example of nonprofit fraud, Mr. Snyder was initially stumped.
 ''There are so many,'' he said.
 He eventually settled on the embezzlement of some $25 million from Goodwill Industries of Santa Clara County in California. 
 It started in the 1970s and continued until one of the participants blew the whistle in 1998. Merchandise donated to the organization was sold outside the Goodwill shops by the perpetrators, who kept the proceeds. One of the embezzlers committed suicide before arrest, and six others, all related, pleaded guilty, were fined and, in some cases, were sent to prison. 
 The thieves had given more than $800,000 to the organization's president and chief executive, who parked the money in accounts in Switzerland, in Austria and on the Isle of Man and then escaped to Guatemala as investigators closed in, according to the authorities. Guatemala sent him home in 2003, but he ultimately pleaded guilty to only one charge -- of tax evasion unrelated to the scandal at Santa Clara Goodwill -- and walked out of the courtroom.
 ''I like that one,'' Mr. Snyder said, ''because it's an extreme example of something typical: that no one gets in trouble for this.''
 Professor Greenlee said she saw signs that charities were now trying harder to deal with fraud.
 ''They're creating audit committees and adopting the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley as best practices,'' she said of the 2002 law that imposed stricter accountability on corporate governing, though not on charities.
 ''Boards are becoming tougher,'' she said, ''because they know that as fiduciaries, they are at risk of, at the very least, embarrassment.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: TOTAL U.S. GIVING, IN BILLIONS: Adjusted for inflation, in 2006 dollars. (Source: Giving USA Foundation) Graph showing the total amount of donations from the U.S. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CHARITIES (91%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); LAWYERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



726 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: First, Self-Control. Then, Debt Control.

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
If you have gotten in over your head in credit card debt, you are in good company. The Federal Reserve says Americans have accumulated nearly $1 trillion, a record amount, in what it calls ''revolving credit.'' 
 But while the financial experts are urging people to pay down debt -- particularly expensive credit card debt -- that is easier said than done. 
 It may help motivate you to look at your debt in a new light, said Hersh Shefrin, a professor of behavioral finance at Santa Clara University. Although many overstretched consumers think of paying off debt as a form of self-denial, Professor Shefrin said they have got it wrong. Debt, he said, is actually a form of borrowing against future consumption. In other words, paying off a credit card with a high interest rate now means you will have more money to spend on yourself later. 
 For example, the typical American carries a $9,000 credit card balance from month to month. Say this card charges an annual 18 percent interest rate and allows paying as little as 2 percent of the balance each month. Even if no more charges are made on the card and the minimum payments is made on time every month, it would take 47 years to pay it off, according to the National Foundation of Credit Counselors. By then, total payments would be $32,994, including $23,994 in interest.
 For those now persuaded that paying off their credit cards is a good thing, the question is how. 
 Using the language of a 12-step program, Gail Cunningham, the spokeswoman for the National Foundation for Credit Counseling, said the first step was ''admitting that you have a problem.''
 ''So many people walk into our offices every day with grocery bags filled with unopened bills,'' Ms. Cunningham said. 
 Many consumers can figure out how to get their finances back in order on their own, she said. But for anyone who needs help, nonprofit credit counseling agencies that are members of the foundation are available in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. (You can locate the counselors on the Web site, http://www.nfcc.org/ or by calling (800) 388-2227.) 
 The next step is taking a good look at your income and expenses, just as you would the balance sheet of a company whose stock you are thinking of buying. Does your financial life more closely resemble Google or Bear Stearns?
 Ms. Cunningham says she routinely tells clients to cut back spending. But if there are not many expenses that can be cut, she said, perhaps more income is needed. Taking a second job may sound hard, she said, but it is not as hard as living with debt.
 Beyond figuring out a way to get income and expenses into better balance, credit counselors have a few basic dos and don'ts.
 The most common advice is to pay off credit cards or other loans that have the highest interest rate first, and then keep working down the list. Of course, each situation is unique. If you have many debts, some experts recommend paying a few manageable bills first. Even if these do not have the highest interest rates, you get a sense of accomplishment that may keep you going.
 One thing to keep in mind when setting priorities on which debts to pay first is which debt is secured and which is unsecured. The biggest secured debt that most Americans have is the mortgage on their homes.
 During the mortgage boom, experts say, many Americans made a huge mistake by taking out home equity loans to pay off high-cost credit cards. That may have sounded like a good idea because the interest rates for home equity loans are generally much lower than those for credit cards. But what these consumers were really doing was transferring unsecured debt to secured debt, ''and that is never a good idea,'' said Nancy Register, the associate director of the Consumer Federation of America in Washington.
 Ms. Register is the director of America Saves, a national campaign the federation runs in coordination with more than 1,000 governmental, nonprofit and corporate entities. ''Getting to zero debt is a wealth-building strategy,'' and a cornerstone of the America Saves program, she said. (For more information, go to www.americasaves.org.) 
 But, of course, getting to zero debt is not exactly what the card companies encourage. Indeed, Ms. Register blames ''relentless marketing'' by credit card companies for the historic levels of consumer debt in America. 
 So do not be surprised if once you start paying off debt, your mailbox is flooded with new credit card offers.
 ''Credit card companies love to get you to take on more debt again,'' said Douglas Heller, the executive director of Consumer Watchdog, an advocacy group based in Santa Monica, Calif. But he said there might be a silver lining to those new offers, if you know how credit scores work.
 Those who fall into debt, he said, are often trapped in a downward spiral. ''The higher your debt load, the lower your credit score,'' he said. ''And the lower your credit score, the more you will pay for any loan.'' That, Mr. Heller added, ''just makes it harder and harder for people to climb out of these holes.''
 But these same forces can work in your favor, once you start paying off your debt. Lower debt should improve your credit score and help you negotiate lower interest rates on your remaining debt. That, in turn, makes it easier to pay it off.
 Consumers may be hoping for a respite from high credit card interest because of recent cuts by the Federal Reserve. But even if the credit card companies do lower their interest rates -- and they tend to lag behind the Fed -- the few percentage points in Fed rate cuts do not amount to much when compared with the typical rate on a credit card.
 A decrease of two percentage points, for example, may be a big proportion of what you are paying for your mortgage. If you have great credit, you may even be able to refinance your home for a good fixed-rate mortgage now. But if you are paying 18 or 20 percent on your credit card, a cut of two points does not mean much.
 Paying down debt can have a much bigger impact -- though not overnight. ''You can't just cut up your credit cards on Monday, and expect a change in your credit score on Tuesday,'' Mr. Heller said. ''Credit scores move more like a large ship than a speed boat.''
 He also warned that some paths to debt reduction might damage your credit score, especially negotiating a lower balance on your credit card. Creditors will accept less money if they fear that someone is on the verge of default or bankruptcy. ''In their eyes, they are cutting their losses,'' Mr. Heller said. But if a creditor agrees to excuse a portion of your debt, that will hurt your credit score and may cost you in the long run.
 So what about those low-cost credit card offers that will start appearing in your mailbox? Mr. Heller suggests using them to try to negotiate a lower rate with your current card company because having a long history with one company improves your credit score. But if your issuer will not match the lower amount, he said, you can always take one of those other offers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Douglas Heller is the executive director of Consumer Watchdog, a consumer advocacy group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



727 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Closing Case, Prosecutors Focus on Former Mayor's Ties to Publicist

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Over and over, a federal prosecutor, Judith H. Germano, placed photocopies of to-do lists and marked-up calendar pages on the overhead projector. There were notations like ''The Boss!!!'' or ''The Mayor'' or a circled letter M. 
 On the witness stand, an F.B.I. agent said that the notes, made by Tamika Riley, referred to her meetings with the former mayor of Newark, Sharpe James, and showed the closeness of the relationship between Ms. Riley, 39, and Mr. James, 72. 
 Seated at one end of the defense table as this unfolded on Thursday, Ms. Riley, a publicist from Jersey City, stared straight ahead and shifted her weight in her seat. At the other end sat Mr. James, stock-still and seemingly untroubled. Both are charged with conspiracy and fraud. 
 At issue is whether Mr. James acted improperly in the sale of nine properties to Ms. Riley through a redevelopment program to revitalize the city's hardscrabble South Ward. Ms. Riley bought the properties in three transactions over four years for a total of $46,000 and quickly resold them for a profit of more than $650,000 without upgrading most of them, as was required by the contract with the city. Both Mr. James and Ms. Riley contend that they have done nothing wrong, and that any efforts by Mr. James on her behalf were not improper. 
 As federal prosecutors wrapped up their case against Mr. James and Ms. Riley on Friday -- which included 33 witnesses over 16 days -- there was a sense among some who have been following the trial that the prosecution has built a much more solid case against Ms. Riley than against Mr. James.
 ''The problem with the government's case is that they have not been able to draw a direct line showing money going to Sharpe James's hands, which is toxic,'' said one defense lawyer not involved in the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to strain relations with the United States attorney's office. 
 Despite establishing the romantic relationship between the two, the lawyer said, prosecutors have not produced a witness with direct knowledge of a plan to steer the properties to Ms. Riley.
 ''They do not have that one cooperating witness that'll say, 'Sharpe James said to do this. Sharpe James said to do that,' '' the lawyer said. ''They're asking jurors to draw inferences about what happened in the huddle; usually they have someone in the huddle. The government is laboring without those two crucial pieces'': a cooperating witness and a way to link money to Mr. James. 
 But other lawyers said that even without showing that Mr. James had profited from the sale of the properties, prosecutors might still have been able to convince the jury that the five-term mayor conducted himself improperly.
 ''If the government can prove that Riley lied in order to obtain property from Newark at discounted prices, and Sharpe James knew about her scheme and facilitated it, then he could be convicted even if he did not directly profit,'' said Paul Radvany, a former federal prosecutor who is now a clinical associate professor at the Fordham University School of Law.
 In testimony over the past week, prosecutors have tried to create a detailed picture of Ms. Riley's finances as they pursue tax, fraud and conspiracy charges against her. Ms. Riley's accountant, David Schwartz, testified that she did not file corporate tax returns for her public relations firm, T.R.I., for six years or report income from the sale of the properties.
 An earlier witness, Beth Skinner, who works with a New Jersey housing assistance program, the Department of Community Affairs, said that Ms. Riley collected $27,000 in low-income housing subsidies even as she profited from the sale of the properties.
 As for Mr. James, the most damaging -- and embarrassing -- testimony for him and his wife, who has attended the trial, has come from workers for the city and friends who have testified about the mayor's romantic relationship with Ms. Riley.
 But prosecutors have hit more than a few bumps in their case against Mr. James. Within the first week of testimony, a key witness for the government, Basil Franklin, the city's former housing director, testified that no properties were steered toward Ms. Riley by Mr. James, which prosecutors later said contradicted Mr. Franklin's grand jury testimony.
 A city official, Councilman Augusto Amador, testified that although he and his colleagues approved the sale of the properties to Ms. Riley, he did not feel that he was pressured by Mr. James to do so. 
 Then on Wednesday, Judge William J. Martini of Federal District Court, who is hearing the case, rebuked prosecutors for withholding information about a witness from defense attorneys. 
 And he had little patience on Friday when Ms. Germano, an assistant United States attorney, argued over the wording of an order to the jury. ''I don't have all day on this issue,'' Judge Martini said, his voice rising.
 Despite the long, often highly detailed testimony about land sales, municipal codes and subsidies, the judge has tried to keep the trial moving quickly. It is unlikely to last several months, as had been predicted. 
 The trial resumes on Tuesday. Ms. Riley's lawyer, Gerald Krovatin, said that his case could last three days, and Mr. James's lawyer, Thomas R. Ashley, said that he planned to call only three witnesses, which could perhaps take just a day. ''Maybe even less than a day,'' Mr. Ashley said.
 Yet for Mr. James, only half of the battle will have been fought. He faces a second trial on charges that he improperly billed the city for $58,000 in personal expenses, including trips with Ms. Riley and other women.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas R. Ashley, right, a lawyer for Sharpe James, left, said he planned to call three witnesses at the conspiracy and fraud trial.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC STEINER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



728 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aide Quits Over Money Use

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An aide to President Bush has resigned because of his alleged misuse of grant money from the United States Agency for International Development when he worked for a Cuban democracy organization. 
 The aide, Felipe Sixto, was promoted on March 1 as a special assistant to the president for intergovernmental affairs. He stepped forward on March 20 to reveal his alleged wrongdoing and to resign, a White House spokesman, Scott Stanzel, said on Friday.
 Mr. Stanzel said Mr. Sixto took that step after learning that his former employer, the Center for a Free Cuba, was prepared to initiate legal action against him.
 The alleged wrongdoing occurred when Mr. Sixto was chief of staff at the center, where he worked for more than three years before moving to the White House.
 The matter has been turned over to the Justice Department for investigation, Mr. Stanzel said.
 The Center for a Free Cuba calls itself an independent, nonpartisan institution dedicated to promoting human rights and a transition to democracy and the rule of law in Cuba. Frank Calzon, its executive director, said the group received ''a couple million dollars'' a year from the development agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



729 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Northwest Looks to Delta To Revive Merger Talks

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
Northwest Airlines has asked Delta Air Lines if it would like to restart merger talks, despite the inability of the carriers' pilots to agree on how to merge their all-important seniority lists.
 The latest discussion between Northwest and Delta was tentative, a person with knowledge of the situation said, and it appeared Friday that the ball was in the court of Richard H. Anderson, Delta's chief executive. 
 A Delta spokeswoman, Betsy Talton, declined to comment. 
 Merging without the approval of pilots could anger the airlines' most powerful work group and make it difficult to run a combined airline efficiently. But the threat might help push the pilots back into negotiations.
 Dave Stevens, chairman of the Northwest chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association, said in a statement late Friday: ''In order for any airline merger to be successful, the pilots of both groups must be involved and agree to the terms. We will reserve our judgment and support until the economic and contractual elements of an agreement have been negotiated.''
 Delta and Northwest had hoped to obtain a new contract covering the roughly 11,000 pilots and an agreement on merging their two seniority lists before going forward with a merger. In exchange, the managements had offered higher pay and a stake in the combined carriers.
 The terms called for the combined airline to be known as Delta, to be based in Atlanta and to be run by Mr. Anderson. Douglas M. Steenland, Northwest's chief executive, had agreed to step aside if the carriers combined.
 Some airline investors, hoping merged carriers would be more profitable, started urging combinations even before Delta and Northwest emerged from bankruptcy last year. 
 Seniority governs pay, schedule and many other elements of a pilot's career. Merging two lists is always divisive. More than two years after US Airways merged with America West Airlines, pilots are still fighting over a combined list. That has prevented the company from operating as a single airline.
 The person knowledgeable about the new discussion said Northwest essentially asked Delta, ''Hey, do we still want to do this? Is there still an appetite?'' Whether to proceed without pilot cooperation ''would have to be part of the discussion,'' the person said.
 Mr. Anderson has promised that any merger would improve job security at Delta and that he would not do a deal unless ''the seniority of our people is protected.'' Proceeding without cooperation from pilots could invite their opposition. Some in Congress already oppose big airline mergers, concerned that they will reduce competition and lead to higher fares.
 Together or alone, carriers face difficult times. Lawrence W. Kellner, chief executive of Continental Airlines, warned workers a week ago that airlines' furious efforts to raise fares in recent weeks were not going very well. Carriers need higher fares to cover increased fuel costs.
 ''Unfortunately, recent ticket price increases haven't been matched by low-cost carriers, meaning that recent domestic price hikes have resulted in very little revenue to us,'' Mr. Kellner told workers in a weekly voice-mail message.
 The slowing economy, meanwhile, could soon damp demand for air travel. Some analysts are expecting billions of dollars in airline losses this year after two years of profits at most carriers.
 United Airlines and Delta each announced plans this month to ground 15 to 20 planes to reduce capacity, and Delta said it would reduce employment by 2,000. Northwest is also looking at reducing its fleet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (96%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (92%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (96%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (79%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (79%); LAWRENCE W KELLNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



730 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: TREASURY'S PLAN WOULD GIVE FED WIDE NEW POWER

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department will propose on Monday that Congress give the Federal Reserve broad new authority to oversee financial market stability, in effect allowing it to send SWAT teams into any corner of the industry or any institution that might pose a risk to the overall system.
 The proposal is part of a sweeping blueprint to overhaul the nation's hodgepodge of financial regulatory agencies, which many experts say failed to recognize rampant excesses in mortgage lending until after they set off what is now the worst financial calamity in decades.
 Democratic lawmakers are all but certain to say the proposal does not go far enough in restricting the kinds of practices that caused the financial crisis. Many of the proposals, like those that would consolidate regulatory agencies, have nothing to do with the turmoil in financial markets. And some of the proposals could actually reduce regulation.
 According to a summary provided by the administration, the plan would consolidate an alphabet soup of banking and securities regulators into a powerful trio of overseers responsible for everything from banks and brokerage firms to hedge funds and private equity firms. 
 While the plan could expose Wall Street investment banks and hedge funds to greater scrutiny, it carefully avoids a call for tighter regulation. 
 The plan would not rein in practices that have been linked to the housing and mortgage crisis, like packaging risky subprime mortgages into securities carrying the highest ratings. 
 The plan would give the Fed some authority over Wall Street firms, but only when an investment bank's practices threatened the entire financial system. 
 And the plan does not recommend tighter rules over the vast and largely unregulated markets for risk sharing and hedging, like credit default swaps, which are supposed to insure lenders against loss but became a speculative instrument themselves and gave many institutions a false sense of security.
 Parts of the plan could reduce the power of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is charged with maintaining orderly stock and bond markets and protecting investors. The plan would merge the S.E.C. with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates exchange-traded futures for oil, grains, currencies and the like. 
 The blueprint also suggests several areas where the S.E.C. should take a lighter approach to its oversight. Among them are allowing stock exchanges greater leeway to regulate themselves and streamlining the approval of new products, even allowing automatic approval of securities products that are being traded in foreign markets. 
 The proposal began last year as an effort by Henry M. Paulson Jr., secretary of the Treasury, to make American financial markets more competitive against overseas markets by modernizing a creaky regulatory system. 
 His goal was to streamline the different and sometimes clashing rules for commercial banks, savings and loans and nonbank mortgage lenders.
 ''I am not suggesting that more regulation is the answer, or even that more effective regulation can prevent the periods of financial market stress that seem to occur every 5 to 10 years,'' Mr. Paulson will say in a speech on Monday, according to a draft. ''I am suggesting that we should and can have a structure that is designed for the world we live in, one that is more flexible.''
 Congress would have to approve almost every element of the proposal, and Democratic leaders are already drafting their own bills to impose tougher supervision over Wall Street investment banks, hedge funds and the fast-growing market in derivatives like credit default swaps.
 But Mr. Paulson's proposal for the Fed echoes ideas championed by Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 Both see the Fed overseeing risk across the entire financial spectrum, but Mr. Frank is likely to favor a stronger Fed role and to subject investment banks to the same rules that commercial banks now must follow, especially for capital reserves. 
 The Treasury plan would let Fed officials examine the practices and even the internal bookkeeping of brokerage firms, hedge funds, commodity-trading exchanges and any other institution that might pose a risk to the overall financial system.
 That would be a significant expansion of the central bank's regulatory mission. 
 When Fed officials agreed this month to rescue Bear Stearns, once the nation's fifth-largest investment bank, they pointedly noted that the Fed never had the authority to monitor its financial condition or order it to bolster its protections against a collapse.
 In two unprecedented moves, the Fed engineered a marriage between JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns, lending $29 billion to JPMorgan to prevent a Bear bankruptcy and a chain of defaults that might have felled much of the financial system. 
 For the first time since the 1930s, the Fed also agreed to let investment banks borrow hundreds of billions of dollars from its discount window, an emergency lending program reserved for commercial banks and other depository institutions.
 But Mr. Paulson's proposal would fall well short of the kind of regulation that Democrats have been proposing. Mr. Frank and other senior Democrats have argued that investment banks and other lightly regulated institutions now compete with commercial banks and should be subject to similar regulation, including examiners who regularly pore over their books and quietly demand changes in their practices.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Frank said he realized the need for tighter regulation of Wall Street firms after a meeting with Charles O. Prince III, then chairman of Citigroup.
 When Mr. Frank asked why Citigroup had kept billions of dollars in ''structured investment vehicles'' off the firm's balance sheet, he recalled, Mr. Prince responded that Citigroup, as a bank holding company, would have been at a disadvantage because investment firms can operate with higher debt and lower capital reserves.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, has taken a similar stance. 
 ''Commercial banks continue to be supervised closely, and are subject to a host of rules meant to limit systemic risk,'' Mr. Schumer wrote in an op-ed article on Friday in The Wall Street Journal. ''But many other financial institutions, including investment banks and hedge funds, are regulated lightly, if at all, even though they act in many ways like banks.''
 Mr. Paulson's proposal is likely to provoke bruising turf battles in Congress among agencies and rival industry groups that benefit from the current regulations. 
 Administration officials acknowledged on Friday that they did not expect the proposal to become law this year, but said they hoped it would help frame a policy debate that would extend well after the elections in November.
 In a nod to the debacle in mortgage lending, the administration proposed a Mortgage Origination Commission to evaluate the effectiveness of state governments in regulating mortgage brokers and protecting consumers.
 The bulk of the proposal, however, was developed before soaring mortgage defaults set off a much broader credit crisis, and most of the proposals are geared to streamlining regulation.
 This plan would consolidate a large number of regulators into roughly three big new agencies.
 Bank supervision, now divided among five federal agencies, would be led by a Prudential Financial Regulator, which could send examiners into any bank or depository institution that is protected by either federal deposit insurance or other federal backstops. It would eliminate the distinction between ''banks'' and ''thrift institutions,'' which are already indistinguishable to most consumers, and shut down the Office of Thrift Supervision.
 Any effort to merge the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with the S.E.C. is likely to provoke battles. 
 Yet another proposal would, for the first time, create a national regulator for insurance companies, an industry that state governments now oversee. 
 Administration officials argue that a national system would eliminate the inefficiencies of having 50 different state regulators, who have jealously guarded their powers and are likely to fight any federal encroachment.
 Arthur Levitt, a former S.E.C. chairman who has long pushed for stronger investor protection, said his first impression of the plan was positive. Even though the S.E.C.'s powers might be reduced, Mr. Levitt said, the plan would create a broader agency to regulate business conduct in all financial services.
 ''It's a thoughtful document,'' he said. ''I'm intrigued by the fact that it puts an emphasis on investor protection, and that it establishes an agency specifically for that purpose, which would operate across all markets. I think that's a very constructive first step.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry M. Paulson Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A PLAN FOR AN OVERHAUL: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is proposing to overhaul the government's fragmented system for regulating financial institutions. The long-term plan, which would require Congressional action to take effect, would establish three agencies with separate objectives responsible for overseeing everything from banks and brokerage firms to hedge funds and private equity firms. The three agencies would be:... (Source: Treasury Department) (pg. A14) Chart showing a new plan that will overhaul the government's fragmented system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BONDS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



731 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Knee Jerks For Reform Are Overdue

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
E-mail nocera@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A week ago Thursday, just days after the big Bear Stearns crisis, Representative Barney Frank gave a speech to the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce. Most people know Mr. Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts, as one of the most liberal members of Congress. 
 He is also known for his quick wit and his sharp tongue. But ever since the Democrats regained control of Congress two years ago, Mr. Frank has taken on another identity: he's the chairman of the powerful House Financial Services Committee, which oversees financial institutions and their regulators. 
 For months, Mr. Frank has been among the leaders of those pushing Congress and the administration to move quickly to help people who got subprime mortgages and are now in danger of losing their homes. He's introduced legislation, for instance, to mandate that the Federal Housing Administration guarantee refinanced subprime loans -- but only if the lender takes a write-down on some of the principal and the terms are ones that the borrower can actually repay. 
 At the same time, though, he has begun to think hard about a critical, longer-term issue: whether the country's financial regulatory apparatus, which was first erected in the 1930s in response to the Great Depression, still makes sense today. ''When I first became chairman,'' he told me a few days ago, ''I was a little daunted by the anti-regulatory view that held sway in Washington.''
 Not anymore. As the crisis on Wall Street, and Main Street, has deepened, Mr. Frank has come to believe that the country needs new regulations that take into account, for instance, the enormous rise in lending -- largely unregulated -- that takes place outside the banking system, and that can better monitor the huge risks many Wall Street firms now take as a matter of course.
 In his Boston speech, he laid out a series of ambitious ideas, including the creation of ''a financial services system risk regulator,'' with the power ''to assess risk across financial markets regardless of corporate form and to intervene when appropriate''-- perhaps by forcing companies to cut back on leverage or raise their capital requirements. He called for a consolidation and streamlining of the many overlapping financial regulators. 
 He also said that capital requirements for nonbanks needed to be reassessed, that consumer protection needed to be enhanced, that mortgage originators -- indeed, all lenders -- should have to carry a portion of their loans on their books so that they would bear some risk if things went wrong, and that companies should be regulated not according to whether they were a bank or an investment bank or a hedge fund but whether they did things like create credit. ''We now see a situation in which more damage was done by inadequate regulation,'' he said. He called for a new era of ''sensible regulation.'' 
 You may have noticed that when the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., made his big Wall Street regulation speech a few days ago, in which he took a far more cautious -- or tepid, depending on your point of view -- position on the need for new regulation, he took a swipe at Democratic proposals like Mr. Frank's, saying that most of their ideas ''are not yet ready for the starting gate.''
 But Mr. Paulson is wrong. Given Mr. Frank's position as chairman of the central committee, his ideas are very much at the starting gate. He will hold hearings and get support, especially if the crisis deepens. Indeed, Mr. Paulson will release on Monday his own set of ideas, which were obtained Friday by The New York Times. Although his proposals are elaborate, they strike me as mainly an effort to keep new regulation to a minimum.
 And lest you think Mr. Frank's notions for new regulation are just the knee-jerk impulse of a liberal Democrat, I can say with some authority that there is a surprising amount of support, even on Wall Street, for the idea that investment banks need more stringent regulation. That includes influential people like Byron Wien of Pequot Capital, Laurence Fink of BlackRock, the economist Alan Blinder, Allan Sinai of Decision Economics, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, and even Larry Kudlow, the archconservative host of ''Kudlow & Company'' on CNBC.
 ''I think investment banks need to be regulated,'' Mr. Kudlow told me flatly. He added that although he often disagreed with Mr. Frank, he felt that he was ''a good thinker and not a knee-jerk liberal.'' I'll tell you, I nearly fell off my chair.
 ''If we were starting from scratch,'' said Sheila Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, ''we would never have this system.'' She's right, of course. We have, for instance, four bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the F.D.I.C., with overlapping duties. Insurance is regulated by the states, not the federal government. Investment banks are handled by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Securities brokers have to pass a test, abide by all sorts of rules and be licensed in order to sell stocks. Mortgage brokers, meanwhile, are completely unregulated.
 There are any number of problems with this system. One is that, as the above example illustrates, it is both duplicative and full of gaping holes. The main concern in the wake of the Depression was the banking system -- so banks wound up heavily regulated. Investment banks, by contrast, were far less important to the overall financial system, so they wound up with a very different kind of regulation; in general, they can take all the risk they want with their balance sheets without the government saying boo. 
 Yet over the last few decades, and especially since the abolition of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that separated investment banks from commercial banks, the two kinds of institutions have come to perform many of the same functions. All kinds of banklike institutions have sprung up that are largely unregulated. Mr. Sinai, the chief global economist at Decision Economics, estimates that today, only 20 percent of loans are made by regulated banks. The rest are generated by institutions that are much less regulated. 
 Indeed, thanks to securitization, banks don't have anywhere near the assets or power they used to have -- while investment banks are a far larger and more powerful part of the financial system. For that reason, said Mr. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, the large public money manager, ''I believe, as I have for years, it is time for investment banks to be regulated.''
 Here's another problem: the bank regulators and the securities regulators have very different mind-sets. For good reason, the Depression caused bank regulators to focus on the ''safety and soundness'' of the banking system. These many decades later, that is still their major concern. Protecting bank customers, by contrast, has been a much less pressing concern. 
 A number of people told me, for instance, that the Fed could have reined in mortgage lenders if it had wanted to, or cracked down on subprime loans. But the Fed chairman then, Alan Greenspan, was really quite hostile to the notion that he should be wading into the subprime market. Indeed, he thought the benefits of broader homeownership were worth the risks that subprime loans entailed. And the few regulators who tried to sound the alarm about those risks were ignored. 
 The S.E.C., meanwhile, cares a great deal about consumer protection -- indeed, its mandate is to protect investors -- but it's not really equipped to evaluate the safety and soundness of the investment banks it regulates. 
 Lynn Turner, a former S.E.C. chief accountant, points out that the agency actually has an office of risk management, which was established a few years ago when William Donaldson was the chairman. Its job is to do precisely what Mr. Frank is proposing: make sure Wall Street firms aren't taking on more risk than they can handle. But in its most recent annual report to Congress, the S.E.C. admitted that the office had been unable to function properly because it was plagued with staff turnover. 
 Mr. Paulson's essential position, as articulated in both his speech and the proposals he will formally unveil Monday, is that the Federal Reserve's opening of the discount window to investment banks -- an action not taken since the Depression --means that the Fed will have to have some new measure of regulatory control over investment banks. After all, the discount window makes loans to banks that are having problems -- and since it's the taxpayers' money that is being lent, the Fed needs to be able to assess the size of the problems. He wants the Fed to be able to burrow into investment banks and scout out potential problems. 
 But putting investment banks under the purview of the Fed because they have access to the discount window is about as minimal a step as one could take. And while Mr. Paulson also calls for consolidation of some regulatory agencies, he is still not tackling some central problems. His proposals won't cover institutions like mortgage companies that make loans and then send them to Wall Street to be turned into complex securities. It won't come to terms with the potential dangers of derivatives themselves. It won't cause the Fed to become more consumer-friendly, or the S.E.C. to care more about the soundness of investment banks. Without serious, wholesale change, the system will still look for all the world like a Rube Goldberg contraption.
 ''The system is broken,'' Mr. Sinai said. ''The animal spirits of the private sector, plus lax regulation, did it in.'' He is among those who believe that we need a new supervisory agency that would regulate, as he puts it, ''all the banklike institutions.'' Those that took the most risk would have the biggest capital requirements -- no matter whether they were investment banks or hedge funds or banks. The government would be able to examine investment banks, just as it now examines banks. Outliers like mortgage brokers wouldn't be able to play by one set of rules while banks play by another. 
 I don't know whether a big new agency is the right way to go. The ideas that emerged from the Depression came after much thought and many Congressional hearings -- and one would hope the same would happen this time. ''You don't want to rush into a new regulatory regime,'' said Mr. Blinder, the former Fed board member who now teaches at Princeton. Indeed, one of the things I like about Mr. Frank's approach is that he is not trying to rush through legislation. He has thrown out some interesting, provocative -- and in many ways, quite sensible -- ideas, and now he's going to see where they lead.
 That's hardly the approach of a knee-jerk liberal. Even Mr. Kudlow would seem to agree.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank wants tighter rules for lenders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RIZER/THE BOSTON GLOBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



732 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Airstrikes Aid Iraqi Army In Basra Siege

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE; Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers from Washington, Steve Friess from Las Vegas and Solomon Moore from New York. Qais Mizher, Ahmad Fadam, Mudhafer al-Husaini, Hosham Hussein, Michael Kamber, Anwar J. Ali and Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed from Basra, Baghdad, Diwaniya, Nasiriya, Kirkuk and Diyala Province.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The American military conducted airstrikes Thursday and Friday to back up stalled Iraqi forces in Basra and battle Shiite militias in Baghdad as continued violence and political infighting worsened the prospects for any timely reconciliation among Iraq's warring factions.
 Although American officials have emphasized that the campaign in the southern port city of Basra is directed by Iraqi forces, the Iraqis have failed so far to wrest control of neighborhoods in Basra from Shiite militias and asked the Americans and British to step in. The Iraqi military does not have jet fighters.
 In Baghdad, American helicopters exchanged fire with Mahdi Army militia members in the Shiite neighborhood of Sadr City, and rockets crashed into the office of Iraq's Sunni vice president in the heavily fortified Green Zone, killing a security guard. 
 The operation is deepening the country's sectarian and political fissures, ones American military officials repeatedly urged Iraqi leaders to address during the past months of decreased attacks. 
 At the same time, the surge in violence around Iraq has underscored the fragility of the security gains of recent months. Just a few weeks ago, many people in Baghdad were feeling confident enough to venture out to restaurants, visit friends and have some sense that they might make it to work safely each morning.
 But after intense clashes between Mahdi Army fighters and Iraqi and American forces on Thursday, the city is under a strict curfew, its streets and markets deserted and its citizens cowering in their houses, listening for the boom of mortar rounds and the crackle of gunfire.
 The violence in Iraq threw an unpredictable new element into the presidential race in the United States, where the war has taken a back seat recently to concerns about the economy. The developments pose a particular challenge to Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, who was an early and vocal supporter of the increase in American troops and has been highlighting its success.
 ''I'm not surprised they would seek our support,'' Mr. McCain said of the Iraqi Army on Friday in Las Vegas. ''The brunt of the fighting is obviously on the ground being taken by the Iraqi military.'' 
 Both Democratic hopefuls, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, have called for troop reductions and an eventual pullout, although Mr. Obama has criticized Mrs. Clinton for voting to authorize President Bush to use military force in Iraq. 
 In Washington, Mr. Bush strongly defended Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki on Friday at what he called a ''defining moment'' for the Baghdad government, saying the United States supported the Iraqi offensive and would provide any military assistance that was sought.
 ''It's still a dangerous, fragile situation in Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said when asked whether the renewed fighting might draw Americans in more deeply and disrupt plans to withdraw more American combat troops in the next few months. He said his top military commanders and national security advisers, who briefed him on Iraq earlier in the week, are ''all aiming to make sure that we have enough of a presence to make sure that we're successful in Iraq.''
 In Basra, the conflict has put the city into a state of virtual siege, with electricity and drinkable water cut off in most neighborhoods. Militiamen sabotaged a major oil pipeline in the city, according to a Western official. And fighters in the Mahdi Army militia tried to raid the Central Bank, but were repulsed. 
 F-18 fighter jets dropped cannon rounds on a militia stronghold and on a mortar team that was attacking Iraqi forces in Basra. The airstrikes, one at 9 p.m. Thursday and a second after midnight, were made at the request of the Iraqi Army, said Maj. Tom Holloway, a spokesman for the British Army.
 Major Holloway said that British and American planes had been conducting surveillance runs over Basra since the fighting began to support the Iraqi military, but that this was the first time they had entered active fighting. ''I think the point here is actually that the Iraqis are capable, they are strong and they have been engaging successfully,'' Major Holloway said. 
 A Western official said negotiations between Iraqi government leaders and militia leaders in Basra had begun even as gunmen clashed. The official said that British and American aircraft were providing aerial support and that a small number of American ground troops had also entered Basra for the first time in years, mainly to monitor the performance of Iraqi forces.
 The need to call in the American-led forces raised questions about the Iraqi Army's ability to wage a successful campaign on its own. Witnesses have said that large parts of Basra -- perhaps as much as 50 to 70 percent -- are still controlled by Shiite militias.
 The city's streets were quieter on Friday than the day before, when only a few residents ventured out, waving poles tied with white shirts or underwear as flags of surrender. But sporadic clashes broke out around the city. 
 Fighting also continued in the Qurna district, 40 miles northwest of Basra.
 In Baghdad, an American helicopter fired on Mahdi Army fighters in the Sadr City neighborhood, killing five people, according to the Iraqi police in the area. The American military confirmed the 4 a.m. strike but said it was called in after ground troops were shot at by Mahdi fighters.
 Clashes also took place in other Shiite-dominated neighborhoods in the capital, including the Topchi and Huriya districts and Kadhimiya. 
 As it has been for several days, the Green Zone was pounded by rocket and mortar fire on Friday, with one missile landing on the residence of the Sunni vice president, Tariq al-Hashimi. 
 Lubna al-Hashimi, Mr. Hashimi's daughter and chief secretary, wept as she described the attack. ''We have just been hit by two mortars,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''One of my colleagues died at once.''
 About three miles away, a rocket landed on a street near the home of Mahmoud al-Mashadani, the speaker of the Iraqi Parliament. Jabbar al-Mashadani, a spokesman for the speaker, said that other senior Iraqi government officials also lived in the area, so it was difficult to know who was the target of the attack, which took place about 5:30 p.m.
 South of Baghdad, an American soldier was killed Friday by a homemade bomb, American military officials reported.
 Vali S. Nasr, adjunct senior fellow for Middle Eastern studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, said in an interview posted on the council's Web site that the outbreak of fighting reflected failures to address sectarian tensions during the lull in violence.
 ''The fundamental issues -- the balance of power between Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq, and, within the Shiites, the balance of power between the two most powerful Shiite groups -- have been unresolved,'' he said. 
 Iraqi politicians said Friday that opposition to Mr. Maliki's use of military force to root out Shiite militias in Basra was increasing even among some of the Shiite and Kurdish allies in his coalition, most of whom failed to attend a parliamentary session called to address the crisis.
 Mahmoud Othman, a member of Parliament from the Kurdish Alliance, said, ''The Sadr movement exists in Parliament, and there should have been negotiations before conducting military operations.'' 
 In Washington, administration and military officials said that a cease-fire by the Mahdi Army was so far holding, and that the clashes with American and Iraqi troops appeared to involve groups splintering off the main body.
 The fighting in Sadr City and other neighborhoods in Baghdad came in response to clashes and attacks with fighters, and not as part of a planned operation, the officials said. ''We're not moving an armored brigade into Sadr City,'' one officer said.
 The United States military has liaisons and trainers with the Iraqi forces, though the exact number was not made clear. The officer said that the American troops' main contribution was to communicate and coordinate operations, including providing intelligence and calling the airstrikes, as happened Thursday night and again on Friday. 
 Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, said the United States had known of the Basra operation in advance, suggesting a good deal of coordination between the United States and Iraq.
 Despite rising concern over the violence, one senior administration official suggested that the operation in Basra reflected a model of future operations. The official cited the strategy outlined by Gen. David H. Petraeus to reduce the American presence in Iraq, eventually, to a limited role supporting Iraqi forces without being involved in day-to-day operations to protect the Iraqi public. In testimony to Congress in September, General Petraeus called that phase of operations ''overwatch.''
 ''This is what overwatch looks like,'' the official said, referring to the American role in Basra so far.
 Around Iraq, sectarian violence also erupted on Friday.
 American forces shelled Asriyah in the Touz Khormato district, about 50 miles northeast of Baghdad, in Kirkuk Province, killing two civilians. In Diwaniya, in the southeast, Mahdi Army gunmen attacked the mayor's office in the Gammas district, killing the mayor.
 In Mahmudiya, fierce clashes broke out between the Mahdi Army and Iraqi and American forces in the city center. And in Nasiriya, northwest of Basra, violence erupted after two days of calm, as Mahdi Army gunmen attacked Iraqi Army tanks that patrolled the city, enforcing a curfew. 
 As the blood pooled on village streets and ran into city gutters, news arrived of older, though no less wrenching deaths. American military officials said that, ''acting on a tip,'' American soldiers and Iraqi police officers had stumbled upon a mass grave containing 37 bodies in Muqdadiya, an area of palm orchards northeast of Baquba. 
 Some of the bodies showed signs of torture, the American military said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqis gathered on Friday at the site was what was said to be a missile strike by United States forces, backing Iraqi forces, in Baghdad's Sadr City neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WATHIQ KHUZAIE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A8) MAP: VIOLENCE FLARES ACROSS THE SOUTH: After the Iraqi government began its operation this week to oust militants from Shiite-controlled areas, violence erupted across southern Iraq. One of the primary groups under attack is the Mahdi Army, the armed wing of the political movement led by Moktada al-Sadr. (pg. A8) Map showing the areas where violence erupted across southern Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CURFEW (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); HELICOPTERS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



733 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Disorder On The Border

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan, a contributing columnist for The Times, writes Outposts, a column at nytimes.com. He is filling in for Bob Herbert, who is off today.

DATELINE: TUCSON 

 BODY:
 For now, the demagogues have left the stage. Talk radio has moved on -- from fear of Mexicans at Home Depot to fear of a black preacher in a pulpit. Congressman Tom Tancredo is an asterisk again, satisfied that fellow Republicans are trying to out-Tancredo him. 
 We are left with the 12 million illegal immigrants -- hanging Sheetrock, setting sod and cleaning hospital bedpans -- as before, in the shadows. But in the two months since immigration briefly dominated the 2008 campaign, much has happened, much of it here. 
 Arizona may produce the next president, in John McCain, or the next vice president, in Janet Napolitano, the Democratic governor. Both of them are shaped by the pragmatic realities of the browning of the West -- and lessons in how simplistic slogans rarely work as policy. 
 Begin with the rallying cry of those on the hard-hearted side of this issue: Build the wall. Deport them all. No amnesty.
 The wall has hit a wall. You remember the wall, er, fence: nearly 700 miles of obstruction along the border, promised by year's end. Nightly, someone with a microphone or a seat in Congress has wondered why we can't just slap together the mighty divide, lickety-split. 
 ''Show me a 50-foot wall,'' says Napolitano, who prosecuted hundreds of illegals before she moved to the Statehouse, and ''and I'll show you a 51-foot ladder.'' It's not just the pull of the world's largest economy. 
 The wall has run into a foundation of the modern Republican Party and a bedrock American principle at that: property rights. A federal judge Andrew Hanen of South Texas, an appointee of George W. Bush and a man with solid Texas values, as W. likes to say, has put a big roadblock before the fence-builders. He ruled that the government must adequately compensate property owners before running over their land in the rush to build the wall. 
 Bad enough, the wall is a curtain to the natural world, to water and sixth-generation family farms that don't conform to a straight line on a map. But the Bush administration has been suing property owners by the dozens, trying to force them to let the feds divide their land. Now that the bully tactics have backfired, the border will most likely not be fenced by year's end, if ever. Oh, well. 
 As for mass deportation, Arizona has proved to be a precursor of how poorly that would work. A strict new law, which Napolitano signed with some regret, would force any business that knowingly hired an undocumented worker to lose its license after two offenses. 
 Thus far, there have been thousands of tips about people who look like illegal workers, prompting police to chase innumerable bogus complaints. But so far, not a single reported citation. Not even from Phoenix, home of Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the self-proclaimed toughest lawmen in the West, part of the Lou Dobbs Gasbag Hall of Fame. 
 Of course, the law has been on the books for only three months. But if they can't find a single lawbreaker in a state with an estimated 500,000 illegal immigrants -- a state that is the nation's busiest gateway for illegal crossings -- imagine how hard it would be to round up a population the size of New York City and Los Angeles combined -- breaking up families and ruining businesses. 
 And don't forget: since 1986, it's been against federal law for companies to hire illegals. That'll show 'em: after 22 years, the total number of prosecutions could fill the breakfast nook at Leisure World. 
 Which brings us to amnesty. McCain, as co-sponsor of the failed federal compromise to offer a path to citizenship, took his hits from the Republican base for his stand. Now, he's the standard-bearer, and is well liked by Latinos. He won't be whining about Mitt Romney's ''sanctuary mansion,'' and will run away from harsh proposals being ginned by election-minded Republicans in Congress. 
 The Democrats may find their vice presidential candidate here with Napolitano -- a former federal prosecutor with a portfolio of common-sense ideas on how to fix the border. In the 2006 governor's race, her opponent in this Republican-leaning state called her soft on immigration. She won every county. Napolitano is a strong supporter of Barack Obama. 
 In the fall, four states in the American Southwest (Arizona, Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico) will be a treasure trove of electoral votes -- worth far more than Ohio, and as much in play as that big swing state. Fantasy liberal talk about porous borders being part of our diversity will not play. Nor will pandering to xenophobes. 
 But after November, someone from this state is likely to be brokering a deal to at last tackle the immigration problem, which means that sloganeering will remain on bumper stickers, where it belongs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LITIGATION (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); DEPORTATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); FAMILY FARMS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%)

PERSON: THOMAS G TANCREDO (88%); JANET NAPOLITANO (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



734 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Penney's Warning Adds to Retail Gloom

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
For retailers, doing everything right is no longer enough. 
 Over the last year, J. C. Penney rolled out a powerful new marketing campaign filled with heartstring-tugging commercials, it introduced a clothing and home decor line from Ralph Lauren, and it opened 50 stores.
 But consumers are not biting -- and, on Friday, J. C. Penney sharply cut its earnings forecast for the first three months of the year, by 33 percent, blaming the tough economy. 
 That fresh sign of distress in American retailing was reinforced by a report from the Commerce Department that consumer spending remained stagnant in February, growing at the slowest pace in more than a year because of the housing slump and a weak job market.
 The dour economic data helped push all three major stock indexes down on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 86.06 points, to 12,216.40. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.54 points, to 1,315.22, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 19.65 points, to 2,261.18
 The slowdown at J. C. Penney bodes poorly for a wide range of retailers -- and its profit warning appeared to drag down shares of Nordstrom (off 6 percent), Macy's (6 percent) and Kohl's(5 percent). 
 If Penney, a midprice chain shopped by middle America, is feeling the pinch of tightening wallets, investors reasoned, so will the rest of the retail industry.
 ''This is what a recession looks like,'' said Adrianne Shapira, a retail analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''We are bumping along the bottom.''
 The chief executive of Penney, Myron E. Ullman III, said that ''consumer confidence is at a multiyear low.''
 He added, ''J. C. Penney counts half of American families as its customers, and they are feeling macroeconomic pressures from many areas, including higher energy costs, deteriorating employment trends and significant issues in the housing and credit markets.''
 The revised profit estimate from Penney was striking because after a decline starting last summer when the housing crisis began, its stock started to recover as consumers responded positively to new merchandise from designers like Mr. Lauren.
 His new product line, introduced in February to rave reviews, features immaculate displays, with whitewashed picket fence walls and fake hydrangea in metal pails, and piles of polo shirts, floral bedsheets and paisley neckties.
 ''It's designed by the greatest American designer and being sold at the best American department store,'' Ken C. Hicks, president of J. C. Penney, said in a recent interview.
 The Lauren line was the latest chapter in J. C. Penney's remarkable turnaround over the last decade. The chain lost more than $900 million in 2003, and was nearly written off by Wall Street (and by middle America). 
 Since then, J. C. Penney has become a force in fashion. New in-store brands, like A.N.A., and East5th are considered as stylish as anything at Macy's. And it has attracted big-name outside brands, like Liz Claiborne for women's clothing and Sephora in the cosmetics department. 
 Last year, under the direction of Mr. Ullman, who once ran the luxury conglomerate LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton as well as Macy's, the company earned more than $1 billion. 
 ''It's clearly no longer your grandmother's J. C. Penney,'' said Ms. Shapira of Goldman Sachs.
 But the falloff in consumer spending that began during the holiday season in 2007 only intensified during the first several months of 2008, and it has not spared J. C. Penney. 
 The chain said its first-quarter earnings would probably be 50 cents a share, compared with an earlier forecast of 75 cents to 80 cents a share. It estimates sales at stores open at least a year, a crucial yardstick in retailing, will fall by at least 10 percent in March. 
 Most retailers will report March sales next week. The numbers are not expected to be pretty. In January and February, monthly sales at stores open a year fell at just about every major department store, including Penney, Macy's, Kohl's, Dillard's and Nordstrom.
 It is unclear whether these stores will soon issue the same kind of earnings warnings as J. C. Penney. But none are expected to produce stellar earnings this quarter.
 Asked if J. C. Penney was serving as an alarm bell for the retail industry, Ms. Shapira said it seemed a little late for that.
 ''The alarm bell has been deafening for months now,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Isabelle Tapia and Joseph Tapia examine a purse with Antonio Tapia, in background, at the J. C. Penney store in Paramus, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 J. C. Penney had rebounded with lines like Ralph Lauren. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); PROFIT WARNINGS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (89%); MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



735 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: McCain Forecloses Early

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
I don't see how anybody could deny that John McCain is a straight-talker. The country is terrified of economic collapse and he's been sounding like Mr. Potter, the banker in ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' You can't get more forthright than that.
 McCain, by the way, is going to be the Republican presidential nominee. Really. While you were watching Hillary and Barack in the Campaign That Never Ends, the Republicans picked him. 
 How did this happen so fast? We haven't even heard from Pennsylvania!
 The Republicans, with their unfair but very, very efficient winner-take-all primaries, closed the deal while the Democrats were still trying to count the votes in Texas. (Results are due any minute!) Now, the Democrats are terrified that McCain will have months and months to raise money and ingratiate himself with the American people while their candidates are spending every cent they can get their hands on to make each other less popular. On Friday, Senator Patrick Leahy called on Hillary Clinton to drop out of the race because McCain was getting a ''free ride'' while Democrats squabble. 
 That felt like an overestimation. Not that McCain hasn't scored some points on the days that he wasn't getting Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq mixed up. Witness the speed and dexterity with which he's been distancing himself from the White House. The only withdrawal McCain supports began when he said he was eager to have Bush campaign for him whenever ''it fits into his busy schedule,'' making it clear that the busyness of said schedule was going to be beyond comprehension. 
 Then McCain gave a foreign policy speech in which he broke dramatically with the administration by acknowledging that we should probably quit invading other countries in the face of enormous opposition from our allies.
 No fair! He got to start first! Why aren't the Republicans required to use primary rules that allocate delegates in a fair, proportional way that makes it impossible for anybody to actually win? If McCain were still running against Mitt (Available for Vice President) Romney and Fred (Available for ''Law & Order'' Cameo) Thompson, he would, of course, still be sounding like a divorced-from-reality loon. But once a Republican clinches his party's nomination, he moves to the middle, stops dropping Ronald Reagan's name every five seconds and begins describing himself as a ''Roosevelt Republican,'' hoping that older working-class voters will think he means Franklin.
 Fortunately for the quivering Democrats, McCain has also felt compelled to speak about the mortgage crisis. His economic thinking -- which is, in any form, a brand-new phenomenon -- harks back to the time when Republicans all seemed to be elderly rich guys who muttered a lot about bonded indebtedness. The public's deep lack of enthusiasm for this worldview was what encouraged Reagan to change the subject to optimism and abortion.
 The theme for his mortgage speech this week was basically McCain to Homeowners: Drop Dead. It was, he said sternly, ''not the duty of the government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly.'' The good news, he noted, was that out of 80 million American homeowners, only 4 million are in the tank, while everybody else is ''working a second job, skipping a vacation and managing their budgets'' the way Countrywide Financial intended them to. 
 He did, however, leave the door open for some vague, amorphous, undefined aid to good homeowners, as opposed to irresponsible ones who ... did something irresponsible. Like taking that vacation.
 McCain then suggested that the federal government ought to do something about getting regulations off the back of the financial markets and concluded with a call to reduce the corporate tax rate. It was not exactly a rallying cry for the masses.
 Imagine what Mitt (Really, Really, Really Available) Romney would have been saying about mortgages if he had the nomination in hand and was repositioning his deeply flexible self for the general election. Can you see the ''Wall Street Is Broken'' banners? He'd probably have sent a son bearing a certified check to every mortgage defaulter in a swing state.
 McCain also favors privatizing parts of the Social Security system, an idea so deeply unpopular with actual people that it never flew in Congress, even when the Republicans were in control and the nation had not yet deduced that the president was permanently out to lunch.
 And at bottom, his economic vision makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. He's going to keep the Bush tax cuts, continue our $3-trillion-and-counting war in Iraq and decrease corporate taxes. And how is he going to pay for it? By getting rid of pork-barrel earmarks. And I am planning to remodel my house by purchasing a tube of Elmer's glue.
 But give the man credit for telling it like he thinks it is. So far, he's only alienated the homeowners, retirees and vacation-takers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



736 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Plastic Card Tricks

 BODY:
Americans are struggling with a very rocky economy while they are also holding almost $1 trillion in credit card debt. In most cases, those cards provide a little flexibility with the monthly bills. But an increasing number of people are defaulting because of the ''tricks and traps'' -- soaring interest rates and hidden fees -- in the credit card business. 
 Before more Americans get in so deep that they cannot dig out, Washington needs to change the way these companies do business to ensure that consumers are treated fairly.
 The stories about deceptive practices are harrowing. At a recent news briefing in Washington, a Chicago man told about what happened when he charged a $12,000 home repair bill in 2000 on a card with an introductory interest rate of 4.25 percent. Despite his steady, on-time payments, the rate is now nearly 25 percent. And despite paying at least $15,360, he said that he had only paid off about $800 of his original debt. 
 The Federal Reserve is focused mainly on making it easier for consumers to understand credit card contracts -- some go as high as 30 pages of nearly unreadable fine print. Clarity, however, is not enough. One bank contract stated baldly: ''We reserve the right to change the terms at any time for any reason.'' 
 Congress needs to address numerous unfair practices, including interest rates that skyrocket for no apparent reason and due dates that suddenly shift -- forward -- so that an unwary consumer pays late. Late fees are a big profit center in some banks. Some raise interest rates when consumers get close to their credit limits. In other cases, a late payment on one company's card raises the rates on other cards in your wallet. 
 Americans deserve better. Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, has been pushing hard for more consumer protections. Representative Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York, has put together an excellent first step with a cardholder's bill of rights. It would require such reasonable changes as a ban on collection of interest on amounts already paid. It would require that cardholders get timely notices of changes in their rates and be able to cancel their cards if the rates suddenly skyrocket -- and pay off the balances at the old rates. 
 Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School, has an especially promising idea: a Financial Product Safety Commission to regulate the industry. Today's credit card users could use the protection. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRODUCT SAFETY (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (75%); CAROLYN MALONEY (55%); CARL LEVIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



737 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Killing A Trade Pact

BYLINE: By EDWARD SCHUMACHER-MATOS. 
Edward Schumacher-Matos, a former foreign correspondent for The Times, is a visiting professor of Latin American studies at Harvard.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT BUSH has been urging Congress to approve a pending trade agreement with Colombia, an ally that recently almost went to war with Venezuela and Hugo Chavez. Even though the agreement includes the labor and environmental conditions that Congress wanted, many Democrats, including Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, now say that Colombia must first punish whomever has been assassinating the members of the nation's trade unions before the agreement can pass. 
 An examination of the Democrats' claims, however, finds that their faith in the assertions of human-rights groups is more righteous than right. Union members have been assassinated, but the reported number is highly exaggerated. Even one murder for union organizing is atrocious, but isolated killings do not justify holding up the trade agreement. 
 All sides agree that trade-union murders in Colombia, like all violence, have declined drastically in recent years. The Colombian unions' own research center says killings dropped to 39 last year from a high of 275 in 1996. 
 Yet in a report being released next week, the research center says the killings remain ''systematic'' and should be treated by the courts as ''genocide'' designed to ''exterminate'' unionism in Colombia. Most human-rights groups cite the union numbers and conclude, as Human Rights Watch did this year, that ''Colombia has the highest rate of violence against trade unionists in the world.'' 
 Even if that is true, it was far safer to be in a union than to be an ordinary citizen in Colombia last year. The unions report that they have 1 million members. Thirty-nine killings in 2007 is a murder rate of 4 unionists per 100,000. There were 15,400 homicides in Colombia last year, not counting combat deaths, according to the national police. That is a murder rate of 34 citizens per 100,000. 
 Many in Congress, moreover, assume that ''assassinations'' means murders that are carried out for union activity. But the union research center says that in 79 percent of the cases going back to 1986, it has no suspect or motive. The government doesn't either. 
 When the Inter American Press Association several years ago investigated its list of murdered Colombian journalists, it found that more than 40 percent were killed for nonjournalistic reasons. The unions have never done a similar investigation. 
 There are, however, a growing number of convictions for union murders in Colombia. There were exactly zero convictions for them in the 1990s, Colombia's bloodiest decade, when right-wing paramilitaries and leftist guerrillas were at the height of their strength. Each assassinated the suspected supporters of the others across society, including in unions.
 With help from the United States, in 2000 the Colombian military and the judicial system began to reassert themselves. Prosecuting cases referred by the unions themselves, the attorney general's office won its first conviction for the murder of a trade unionist in 2001. Last year, the office won nearly 40. 
 Of the 87 convictions won in union cases since 2001, almost all for murder, the ruling judges found that union activity was the motive in only 17. Even if you add the 16 cases in which motive was not established, the number doesn't reach half of the cases. The judges found that 15 of the murders were related to common crime, 10 to crimes of passion and 13 to membership in a guerrilla organization.
 The unions don't dispute the numbers. Instead, they say the prosecutors and the courts are wasting time and being anti-union by seeking to establish motive -- a novel position in legal jurisprudence. 
 The two main guerrilla groups have an avowed strategy of infiltrating unions, which attracts violence. About a third of the identified murderers of union members are leftist guerrillas. Most of the rest are members of paramilitary groups -- presumed to be behind two of the four trade unionist murders this month. The demobilization of most paramilitary groups, along with the prosecutions and government protection of union leaders, has contributed to the great drop in union murders.
 President Alvaro Uribe, who has thin skin, can be unwisely provocative when responding to complaints from unions and human rights groups. Still, the level of unionization in Colombia is roughly equal to that in the United States and slightly below the level in the rest of Latin America. The government registered more than 120 new unions in 2006, the last year for which numbers are available. The International Labor Organization says union legal rights in Colombia meet its highest standards. Union leaders have been cabinet members, a governor and the mayor of Bogota. 
 Delaying the approval of the trade agreement would be convenient for Democrats in Washington. American labor unions and human-rights groups have made common cause to oppose it this election year. The unions oppose the trade agreement for traditional protectionist reasons. Less understandable are the rights groups. 
 Human Rights Watch says that it has no position on trade but that it is using the withholding of approval to gain political leverage over the Colombian government. Perversely, they are harming Colombian workers in the process. The trade agreement would stimulate economic growth and help all Colombians. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); GENOCIDE (66%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



738 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Backing From Senator Reflected Frustration and Desire for Healing

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania left for his Easter vacation in Florida determined to remain neutral in the increasingly bitter battle for the Democratic presidential nomination. But rain there kept him inside, and he began ruminating about the election and what was at stake.
 ''He spent a lot of time thinking about it,'' a person close to Mr. Casey said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the senator. ''He was asking himself, What's more important than this? He was also just terribly frustrated with where Bush is going on Iraq and the economy, and he felt he had to jump into the fray.'' 
 Mr. Casey concluded that he would endorse Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, and he did so on Friday in Pittsburgh, joining Mr. Obama for part of his six-day bus trip across Pennsylvania ahead of that state's Democratic primary on April 22.
 ''I really believe that in a time of danger around the world and in division here at home,'' Mr. Casey said at a rally, ''Barack Obama can lead us, he can heal us, he can help rebuild America.''
 Mr. Casey later told reporters at a news conference in the Soldiers and Sailors Military Museum and Memorial in Pittsburgh, ''I believe in this guy like I've never believed in a candidate in my life.''
 Mr. Casey's move goes against the grain of his state, where polls show Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York ahead by at least 12 percentage points and where she has the endorsement of most of the state's major Democratic figures. 
 But the endorsement by Mr. Casey -- an Irish Catholic who won 59 percent of the vote in his 2006 race for the Senate -- may carry some weight, especially with white working class voters, who are known as Casey Democrats.
 The Casey family dynasty is also based in the northeast Pennsylvania city of Scranton, which is a stronghold for Mrs. Clinton, who has deep family roots in the area.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama had raised money and campaigned for Mr. Casey when he ran for the Senate. Both also initially lobbied him themselves, and then through third parties, but they retreated after they understood that he wanted to remain neutral.
 Mr. Casey said he had called Mrs. Clinton to tell her of his decision. ''She was very gracious,'' he said. ''We know that she's a great senator. She's a great leader.'' 
 Mr. Casey decided to back Mr. Obama, the person close to him said, because of his ''ability to bring disparate groups together and transcend some of these racial and other kinds of divides.''
 ''Also, his kids were on his case, his four daughters,'' the person said about Mr. Casey. ''Not that they dictate to him, but he was paying attention. He was wondering, Why are these kids, who aren't very political, so interested? He does have the ability to light up a younger generation.''
 Mr. Casey also suggested at the news conference that he was moved by the speech on race Mr. Obama gave last week in Philadelphia.
 ''A campaign can test someone,'' Mr. Casey said. ''He's been tested. He's appealed to the better angels of our nature under very difficult circumstances.''
 Mr. Casey's father, a former governor of Pennsylvania, had a chilly relationship with Bill Clinton dating from his campaign for president in 1992. The elder Mr. Casey was strongly against abortion rights and did not approve of Mr. Clinton, who in turn kept Mr. Casey off the floor of the Democrats' national convention that year. 
 But several people who know the younger Mr. Casey and Mrs. Clinton say the family bitterness has dissipated and was not a factor in his endorsement of Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Casey said he intended to throw not just his family name into Mr. Obama's effort but also his political know-how. 
 ''I know a lot about campaigns and a lot about our state,'' Mr. Casey said. ''I think it's very important that I make the decision public.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, left, toasted beers with Senator Barack Obama on Friday at Sharkey's in Latrobe, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

PERSON: BOB CASEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (91%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



739 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Turning the Spotlight on McCain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Tested Over Time'' (column, March 28):
 David Brooks can laud John McCain's credentials all he wants, but one indelible fact remains: Senator McCain supported and continues to support President Bush's catastrophic and open-ended invasion and occupation of Iraq. 
 The ills visited upon us as a result of that mistake will be with us for generations. A ''nuanced'' approach now will never compensate for the initial error and the pursuit of that error in the name of ''victory in Iraq.'' 
 H. R. Coursen
 Brunswick, Me., March 28, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 So David Brooks needs to go back decades in pointing to John McCain's so-called independence from the current administration, and I suppose he's right. Senator McCain's own Web site calls for even more troops in Iraq than we currently have, and I guess that constitutes a difference from the current administration's policies. 
 But Senator McCain, who once opposed President Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy, now favors them. He opposes their expiration, and his Web site calls for additional cuts in corporate taxes as well as keeping current rates on dividends and capital gains to promote saving (how this works is unexplained).
 That sounds suspiciously like the irresponsible fiscal policies of the current administration. Maybe it's just me. But if Senator McCain is truly proposing policies that differ from President Bush's policies, I sure can't see it.
 Martin Alter
 Brooklyn, March 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks says I'm not paying attention to John McCain's ''nuanced and ambitious'' speech. Right. Mr. McCain assured us that the surge is working as the violence explodes again and we reach the 4,000 mark on dead American service members. He demonstrated a lack of knowledge about who is fighting and had to be corrected by Joe Lieberman. 
 Last year, he showed off the safety of a stroll through the streets of Baghdad, as long as you're protected by hundreds of heavily armed troops. 
 Mr. Brooks and his hero are part of the same crowd who have been disastrously wrong for the last six years. Who's not paying attention? 
 Eric Hipp
 Brooklyn, March 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Maverick and the Media,'' by Neal Gabler (Op-Ed, March 26):
 Although John McCain's media approach may work for him as a candidate, it is indeed perilous for the nation. The public deserves more. We deserve objective, unflinching scrutiny to help us select the best candidate for these very dangerous, complicated times. 
 We certainly don't need an adoring media, rife with blind spots and willing to save the candidate from himself!
 Who will then save us if he is president? Haven't we suffered enough destruction at the hands of someone the press chose to give a pass to because he offered a feel-good moment over a beer? 
 The media should remove anyone ''blinded by love'' from covering Senator McCain. 
 Mary Ryan-Smith
 Garden City, N.Y., March 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 To the extent that Neal Gabler is right when he states that John McCain is ''a darling of the news media,'' it's not so much because he shares their sense of irony. It's because he's a Republican who is not reliably conservative. 
 So here's a prediction from someone who's been a full-time working journalist since 1967: The love affair will end as soon as soon as the general election begins (if not sooner). That's when every gaffe by Mr. McCain will be portrayed by the media as ''evidence'' that he's old -- really, really old. That's when every grimace will be ''proof'' that he's got a hair-trigger temper. 
 When the Democrats stop beating each other over the head, and one of them starts running in earnest against John McCain, the media will no longer find their ''darling'' nearly as ''ironic'' -- or nearly as lovable. 
 From a media point of view, it's one thing when Senator McCain sticks a finger in a fellow Republican's eye, quite another when he's taking aim at a liberal Democrat.
 Bernard Goldberg
 Miami, March 27, 2008
 The writer is the author and former CBS News correspondent.
 To the Editor:
 Neil Gabler's article, while insightful, implies an extreme contrast between John McCain as ironic and Barack Obama as idealistic, and yet both are treated well by the press. And more significantly, both are what Marshall McLuhan called ''cool'' characters, tailor-made for cool electronic media like television.
 Both have a soft, indistinct personable image that the cameras love as well as reporters, and that allows audiences to project their own hopes and desires onto them. Expect the general election to be all about which of the two is the coolest of them all. 
 Lance Strate
 Bronx, March 26, 2008
 The writer is a professor of communication and media studies at Fordham University.
 To the Editor:
 It would be nice if one of the charmed-by-McCain reporters whom Neal Gabler describes would ask him the following question and tell us his answer. 
 ''If winning in Iraq is absolutely critical to American security, will you raise taxes to pay for the victory?'' If his answer is yes, the follow-up question could be: ''Whose taxes?'' If the answer is no, the follow-up question could be: ''From whom are you going to borrow the money?''
 Charles Adams 
 Newark, Del., March 27, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRADY WHITE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008



740 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: A Word From the Naysayers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE federal economic stimulus package signed last month has started to take effect for mortgages, and the results for borrowers in the New York area are not encouraging. While more homeowners are eligible for bigger loans than were initially expected, they are not yet getting a meaningful break on interest rates, dampening hopes that the plan would give the housing market an immediate boost. 
 The stimulus plan lifted the size limits for loans eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored companies that resell packages of loans to investors. Previously, only mortgages below $417,000 qualified as so-called conforming loans. 
 Mortgage executives had believed the new limits would reach about $650,000 in the greater New York area, but earlier this month the government said loans below $708,750 for Fairfield County, Conn., and loans below $729,750 elsewhere in the New York City area would qualify.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac set relatively strict standards that banks must use to screen borrowers for these mortgages, thus building a safer package of loans to sell to investors. That, plus the guarantee that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will buy the loans, helps keep rates on these mortgages low.
 But when banks began actually accepting applications for the loans in recent weeks, investors who will buy the loans from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac appeared a bit gun-shy, apparently because they believe the bigger loans will be less lucrative in the long run. The result? Rates on the new ''jumbo conforming'' mortgages were five-eighths to three-quarters of a percentage point higher than on the smaller loans.
 ''This will be a big disappointment for consumers who were hoping to see rates the same or close to conforming,'' said Penn Johnson, president of the Stamford Mortgage Company, a Connecticut mortgage broker. 
 Mr. Johnson said that around March 20, banks like Chase and Wells Fargo were offering mortgages at 6 percent for conforming loans, while rates on jumbo conforming mortgages were at least 6.75 percent. Loans above $708,750, he said, carried interest rates of 7 percent.
 Mr. Johnson and other lenders said they would continue directing borrowers who wanted bigger loans to savings banks. They often keep mortgages on their own books, rather than selling them to investors, so they can make loans under their own underwriting standards. 
 Rates on $700,000 loans from savings banks in late March were about 5.5 percent, but they were also more difficult for borrowers to get. In some cases, only those with more than 30 percent equity in their homes could qualify.
 ''Right now, the mortgage portion of the stimulus package is totally useless,'' said Daniel Shlufman, president of the FCMC Mortgage Corporation in Clifton, N.J. ''And if rates don't drop by May 1'' -- when many buyers will want their financing lined up, he believes -- ''it's not going to help the purchase market at all.''
 The refinance market could possibly flourish, Mr. Shlufman said, if rates dropped to about 6.25 percent. ''And I do believe the rates will come down,'' he said. ''Something's got to give.''
 Frank Sillman, chief executive of the IndyMac Mortgage Bank in Pasadena, Calif., said he, too, believed that lower rates might be on the way and that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac might ultimately buy and hold more large mortgages. ''Obviously, we're in a market where the supply and demand for mortgages is out of whack,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH (Source: HSH Associates) Graph showing the index for adjustable rate mortgages in the New York region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



741 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Homeowners' Pleas Put G.O.P. Lawmakers in Bind on Defaults

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: HIALEAH, Fla. 

 BODY:
In Los Portales, a pink and terra cotta condominium complex in this city of hard-striving Hispanic immigrants and often harder luck, many of Juan Carpio's neighbors are losing their homes. 
 To the right of his ground-floor unit, two apartments are in the early stages of foreclosure. Across the street, a three-bedroom unit has been seized by a bank. To the left, another one is up for auction. 
 ''The government should help,'' said Mr. Carpio, 57, a former truck driver whose wife is a security guard. ''Somebody ought to do something.'' 
 In Mr. Carpio's view, that somebody could be Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, an eight-term Republican who represents Hialeah and whose district slices through Miami-Dade into Broward, two counties in the top 10 of foreclosures nationwide. 
 But as Congress returns from a two-week recess on Monday for a furious debate over whether to help homeowners on the brink of default, Mr. Diaz-Balart is caught in a crunch of his own. 
 On one side, Democrats emboldened by the Federal Reserve's intervention in the collapse of Bear Stearns are demanding help for ''everyday Americans.'' On the other, Republicans including Senator John McCain, the party's presumptive nominee, are urging restraint, reluctant to commit taxpayer funds to what they say is simply a bailout for greedy lenders and reckless buyers. 
 It is a bind shared by other Republicans, especially from high-foreclosure states like Arizona, California, Michigan, Nevada and Ohio. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has a list of 18 districts where it plans to highlight high foreclosure rates in its effort to oust Republican incumbents this year.
 So Mr. Diaz-Balart is treading carefully even as some of his constituents angrily insist that he should be leading the charge for help on Capitol Hill. He says he is open to some of the Democrats' ideas but has not decided how he will vote on a proposed $300 billion loan guarantee program to prevent foreclosures and an array of other housing initiatives expected on the House floor in the next few weeks. 
 ''I haven't studied this sufficiently to commit right now,'' Mr. Diaz-Balart said in an interview outside Epworth Village, a retirement community where he spoke to constituents about how to get their payments from the economic stimulus plan approved by Congress last month. 
 ''It's a very serious problem, and I am not dogmatic,'' he said. ''I am not going to say there cannot be state intervention in a dogmatic way.'' 
 For constituents like Mr. Carpio, that is not enough. ''I'm very lukewarm about him nowadays,'' said Mr. Carpio, who like his congressman is a lifelong Republican of Cuban heritage. 
 Others were less subtle. ''He says a lot of about foreign policy, mainly toward Cuba, which makes no difference here,'' said David Carbonell, a former computer programmer and gas station manager now on disability with a heart ailment. ''You have people living here at the edge of poverty and he has done nothing to bring anything back to Hialeah or Miami Lakes. He is a party hack. He will vote the way his party votes.''
 The rising anger at Washington is not something Mr. Diaz-Balart is accustomed to because he has long shared the strong anti-Castro sentiments of his heavily Cuban-American district and is part of a political dynasty. His late father, Rafael, was a well-known politician and Castro opponent in Cuba, and his brother, Mario, represents a neighboring district in Congress. 
 And to be sure, Mr. Diaz-Balart remains immensely popular among many residents of his district. A warm and gregarious politician, he switches effortlessly between Spanish -- ''Que placer a verlo'' -- and perfect, unaccented English -- ''Great to see you'' -- all the while doling out kisses, clasping his constituents by the hand or draping an arm around their shoulders to be sure his affection is understood. 
 He said that in addition to addressing the foreclosure problems, he was trying to help low-income constituents struggling to pay rent. ''Much of the community I represent is of very limited economic resources, so you have then a lot of renters,'' he said. ''I would say the major housing problem here is insufficient accessible housing.''
 But with Democrats seeing the housing issue as a powerful election-year weapon, it is unclear how flexible they will be about debating affordable housing ideas or other Republican counterproposals. In recent days, the Democrats have leveled a barrage of criticism at President Bush and Mr. McCain for not offering more help. 
 With Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the treasury, planning to unveil a package of regulatory reforms on Monday, almost all requiring the approval of Congress, Democrats are certain to insist that helping individual homeowners remains their most immediate priority.
 Even word that the Bush administration was moving closer to its own plan to help homeowners facing foreclosure seemed unlikely to forestall the looming battles on Capitol Hill. The White House plan would encourage lenders to refinance failing loans and would extend federal guarantees for new loans without new legislation. But Democrats say they will push for more.
 In a sign of the increasing pressure that lawmakers are feeling after two weeks at home, some Senate Republicans say they are ready to deal.
 ''The two things you hear most about from people are the price of gasoline and the housing problem,'' said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia. ''I don't think we could get away with not addressing it forthrightly, and hopefully we will.'' 
 Senate Democrats, hoping to leverage their argument that average Americans deserve just as much help as Wall Street, on Tuesday will bring back to the floor housing legislation that the Republicans blocked on Feb. 28. 
 That bill includes a change in bankruptcy laws to allow judges to modify interest rates and other mortgage terms for primary homes, a provision that the White House and Senate Republicans have denounced. It would also provide $200 million for counseling struggling homeowners; authorize $10 billion in bonds to refinance bad loans; and give local governments $4 billion to buy foreclosed properties. 
 In the House, Democrats plan to push Republicans for quick action to create a $300 billion loan guarantee program. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is sponsoring the bill, said that a failure by Republicans to sufficiently regulate lenders had allowed problems in the mortgage market to hold the larger economy hostage. ''At this point it's some government versus no government,'' he said, adding: ''In effect we have to pay a ransom. It's not fun to have to pay a ransom.'' 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, has sponsored a similar measure. While the debate on Capitol Hill is often for political advantage, in Hialeah and other hard-hit towns around the country the debate is about how to afford groceries and gasoline and still cover mortgage payments, amid declining property values and a slowing economy. 
 In the Los Portales condominium complex a pink notice left on one apartment door urged the owner to call Eastern Financial, a lender. Neighbors said the apartment had been abandoned. Isabel Hernandez, a member of the condominium board, said all of its homeowners were being hurt because many residents could no longer afford monthly maintenance fees. 
 Her neighbor, Mr. Carpio, is no stranger to financial trouble and said the government needed to offer a helping hand. Unemployed in 2002, he and his wife filed for bankruptcy and lost a home. Last year, they refinanced the $103,000 loan on their apartment in Los Portales. 
 ''We were this close,'' he said, pinching his fingers, together. Then, running a finger across his chin, he added, ''We were right up to here.'' 
 North of Hialeah, in the wealthier neighborhoods of Palm Springs North and Miami Lakes, dozens of large single family homes are in various stages of foreclosure. 
 One Spanish Colonial, which sold for $610,000 in February 2006, had a sign out front announcing it would soon be up for auction. Opening bid: $50,000. Another house up for auction had sold in August 2003 for $220,000, and again in February 2007 for $465,000. 
 Still, if a visit in and around Mr. Diaz-Balart's district illustrates how deeply the mortgage pain is being felt, it also underscores how difficult it will be to legislate solutions.
 The Miami area, with its appeal to investors in vacation homes, is far different than Detroit or Cleveland, where long-declining prices have stabilized, which in turn are far different than recent boom towns like Phoenix or Las Vegas. 
 Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal group, warned that the proposed loan guarantee programs could prove disastrous in areas like Phoenix, where home prices are still falling and could lead to more defaults. 
 And in Hialeah, William Negron, a broker specialized in short sales of foreclosed properties, said that just reducing mortgage balances often is not enough to help homeowners also squeezed by high property taxes and rising insurance costs. 
 Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain offer similar reasons in warning against too much government intervention and say the administration has already taken prudent steps, by giving more flexibility to the Federal Housing Administration, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 But if the legislation is complicated, for Democrats the political message seems clear: no help for the little guy. ''You are on your own,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''Unless you are a big financial firm on Wall Street, in which case we'll work around the clock all weekend to help you out.'' 
 Raul Martinez, a former mayor of Hialeah who is running against Mr. Diaz-Balart, said he planned to point out repeatedly that his opponent was slow to help homeowners in crisis. 
 ''People are so concerned about taking care of themselves they might not call anybody,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''You may not want to let the world know you are losing the house. We have a lot of proud people in our community.'' As for Mr. Diaz-Balart, he said, ''If I was him, I wouldn't be waiting. I would be out there leading.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Voters confronted Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart with questions on Tuesday in Miami.
 Raul Martinez, former mayor of Hialeah, in Miami Lakes, Fla.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%); APPROVALS (61%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



742 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Energy Policy, as the Energy Secretary Sees It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your March 25 editorial ''Pain at the Pump and Beyond'' pointed to the strain that high energy prices are putting on America's economy, families and businesses. As energy secretary, I agree that our nation is ''far too dependent on oil.'' We absolutely must lessen our dependence on fossil fuels, harness the power of clean energy, and increase our energy efficiency. 
 And so I strongly disagree with your statement that the Bush administration's energy strategy is ''focused on one thing: getting more oil.'' At best, this suggestion demonstrates an incomplete understanding of the efforts under way across our nation. 
 Since the start of this administration, the federal government has spent more than $12 billion to research, develop and promote alternative energy sources. Last year alone, the Energy Department announced more than $1 billion to spur the growth of a robust, sustainable biofuels industry -- with a focus on cellulosic ethanol. We also continue to make critical investments in solar and wind power, hydrogen fuel cells, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, cutting-edge clean coal plants and advanced nuclear power technologies. And we're already seeing results -- in our national laboratories and, more important, out in the marketplace. 
 This work has been under way for years and must continue at a rapid pace. After all, our energy challenges have been decades in the making and will not be solved overnight.
 Our national strategy is not a reaction to high oil prices. It's a comprehensive policy that seeks to address two of the most fundamental challenges we face: improving our energy security and combating global climate change. Today's high energy prices only underscore the urgency of these efforts. 
 Samuel W. Bodman Secretary of Energy Washington, March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ETHANOL (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); HYBRID VEHICLES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%)

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



743 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK UP CLOSE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Not Quite Passing the Hat, but Already Feeling the Pain

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
ROBERT BENFATTO, the usually serene district manager of Community Board 4 in Manhattan, was standing in his lemon-yellow office suite last week pointing an accusing finger at Nelly Gonzalez, a staff member. 
 ''She's always holding up bills and saying, 'How am I going to pay this?' '' Mr. Benfatto said. 
 Ms. Gonzalez grinned shyly and nodded. ''I tell him, 'I need some money,' '' she said. '' 'Where am I going to get it?' ''
 More and more these days, staff members at the city's 59 community boards are asking one another similar questions. 
 The boards, which each have about 3 paid workers and 50 volunteer members, constitute the city's most local form of government, serving from 35,000 to 200,000 people apiece. While they wield little direct power, the boards have a wide range of advisory responsibilities, like reviewing applications for liquor licenses and soliciting public comment on major public and private projects.
 Now the boards are bracing for cuts that many of their leaders say would seriously hamper their ability to function. Although the city pays for rent and utilities, last year each board had nearly $200,000 to pay for all other expenses, including salaries, phones, office supplies, equipment and technical services. Except for the sum available for salaries, which is set apart, board officials contend that their allocation has not been increased in about 15 years.
 In the past two months, the mayor's office asked each board to plan $9,995 to $15,690 in cuts that, if approved by the City Council, would take effect July 1.
 Board officials acknowledge that every city agency is facing similar cuts, a result of shrinking municipal revenue. But they contend that because their budgets are so small to begin with, they will be harmed disproportionately to the savings achieved.
 ''Our computers don't speak to each other,'' said Wally Rubin, district manager of Community Board 5 in Manhattan. ''We have no I.T. person. We have a cabinet filled with information that the Charter mandates we keep, and we can't even open the drawer. And now we're talking about a $10,000 budget cut?''
 In response, John Gallagher, a mayoral spokesman, said in an e-mail message, ''In these difficult economic times, all city agencies and government entities must do more with less.''
 Some boards are already raising money privately, and the budget cuts may force more boards to do so. In October, Board 3, which covers the Lower East Side, earned $1,500 for renting its offices to ''Law & Order'' for the overnight filming of a scene set in a community newspaper office. Susan Stetzer, the district manager, said a spinoff of the show had scouted her office for a scene set in a city agency, ''but we were too old and decrepit-looking.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHIP WASS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (67%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008



744 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Before the Olympics, A Parade of Companies

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
THE Olympic torch set off last week from Athens for Beijing. By the time it arrives in August for the start of the Olympic Games, Beijing will have largely completed a transformation from a staid seat of government to a modern metropolis. 
 Even as its economy surged in recent years, Beijing, China's capital, still lagged behind business centers like Shanghai and Guangzhou in commercial development. Roads and public transit were outmoded, developers said, and companies that wanted to expand there had limited options for office or retail space. 
 But with the Olympic Games as a catalyst, government authorities undertook a vast makeover of the city. Since its selection in 2001 as the host city, it has poured $40 billion into infrastructure projects and Olympics venues while encouraging the development of glittering office, hotel and retail centers. Entire neighborhoods are being renovated. 
 In 2007, four new shopping centers added nearly 1.2 million square feet of retail space, office space expanded by more than 14 million square feet, and 2,500 new hotel rooms came onto the market, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate services and money management company. 
 And that was just last year. In 2008, an additional 11 shopping centers totaling more than 11 million square feet are scheduled to open, along with 15 million square feet of office space and more than 11,000 hotel rooms, Jones Lang LaSalle said. 
 With the new supply of high-quality real estate, more American companies have been heading into Beijing, seeking to expand their presence in one of the world's fastest-growing markets. A less-stringent regulatory environment for business is also helping to clear the path; there are fewer ownership restrictions, for example, for foreign businesses in certain industries. ''The city is expanding at such a pace, it's creating new opportunities every day,'' said Edwin Fuller, the president and managing director of international lodging for Marriott International, whose hotel brands include JW Marriott Hotels & Resorts, Ritz-Carlton and Renaissance Hotels. 
 In the two years leading up to the start of the Games, Marriott International will have opened eight new hotels, totaling 3,000 rooms, including a JW Marriott and Beijing's second Ritz-Carlton. Both the JW Marriott and the Ritz opened late last year in China Central Place, a new mixed-use development in the Central Business District. Companies already established in China are expanding in Beijing, including McDonald's, Staples, Starbucks and Nike, while others are entering for the first time, or venturing into more direct investments. 
 Apple plans to open its first Chinese store in Beijing this summer. The store, with 30,000 square feet of space, will be on Qianmen Street, a historic but neglected commercial district at the south end of Tiananmen Square that is being remade into a pedestrian shopping and dining corridor. 
 Last August, Nike, which is sponsoring several Olympic teams, opened a flagship store on the busy Wangfujing Street in the city's center. At 12,000 square feet, the store is the company's largest in China, and the first in the country that Nike directly owns and operates. The company says sales have been brisk. (There are some 3,500 Nike stores throughout China, though they are owned and operated by franchisees or other partners.) 
 The Fatburger restaurant chain, owned by the Fog Cutter Capital Group, also plans to open an outlet in Beijing before the Olympics, after the opening last fall of its first Chinese venture in Macao. And Auntie Anne's Pretzels plans to open three outlets in Beijing in the coming months, in its first foray into China. 
 ''We're using the Olympics as a catalyst to expose people to our brand,'' said Mike McCoy, the director of franchise development and international operations at Auntie Anne's. He said the company had long considered expanding into China but only recently found the right licensee with whom to form a partnership. ''With the Olympics, the timing couldn't be better,'' he said. 
 Even celebrity chefs are getting in on the action. Daniel Boulud, who owns high-profile restaurants in New York and Las Vegas, plans to have a restaurant in Legation Quarter, a luxury development that will open this spring in the former American Embassy near Tiananmen Square, next to the mausoleum of Mao Zedong. 
 The appeal, of course, is easy to see: China's economy has been growing by double-digits annually, and its 1.3 billion or so citizens are becoming more affluent. Yet few Chinese brands compete in the luxury categories. ''The consumer market is a blank canvas in China, to a certain degree,'' said Benjamin Christensen, the research manager of Jones Lang LaSalle Beijing. It was only in 2001 that the first modern shopping mall opened in Beijing. But the concept has caught on with consumers and retailers alike. 
 The advent of a global event like the Olympics, expected to draw some two million foreign and domestic visitors, has been a strong springboard. 
 Still, some people wonder what will happen when the athletes and the spectators go home, and Beijing is left to absorb an enormous increase in hotel rooms, shops and office space, some in unproven neighborhoods. Many Olympic host cities, like Montreal in 1976 and Sydney, Australia, in 2000, experienced economic slumps after the Games as they struggled to recoup their costly investments.
 In recent months, some new retail centers have had trouble lining up tenants, according to leasing agents. Similarly, hotel occupancy rates in Beijing are likely to drop, at least temporarily, after the Games, said Andreas Flaig, an executive vice president at Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels in China. But hotels may partially offset that with higher prices, he said, noting that average room rates for luxury hotels in Beijing nearly doubled from 1999 to 2007, to roughly $200. 
 These hotels ''are built for the long term, not for a 16-day event in August,'' Mr. Flaig said. ''They want to participate in the long-term growth of Beijing.'' 
 Indeed, few companies coming into Beijing seem worried. For one thing, hotels groups like Marriott International tend to operate hotels for local business people who develop the properties, so they are more insulated from real estate costs and risks. Similarly, most retail outlets have a local partner or franchisee, although direct investment has been growing. 
 MOREOVER, China's long-term growth prospects and Beijing's healthy mix of tourists and business travelers bode well for the long term. Past Olympic host cities have largely been in developed countries. Beijing, by contrast, is experiencing breathtaking growth, and the investments made for the Olympics, largely centered on improving transportation and infrastructure, will only help its future growth, according to Michael Thompson, the president of Cushman & Wakefield's Asia unit. 
 Mr. Fuller of Marriott agreed. ''You've watched every city that has ever hosted the Olympics go into oversupply mode,'' he said. In Beijing, he said, ''I suspect it will be relatively short-lived.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American companies have steadily expanded into Beijing in preparation for the summer OlympicGames. Marriott International is adding hotels including a second Ritz-Carlton, top left, and a JW Marriott, top right and below.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERING, ABOVE LEFT, AND PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESORTS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); SPONSORSHIP (66%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (86%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (55%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (86%); JLL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (86%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (99%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); EAST CHINA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (88%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



745 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: A Republican's Argument For Two-Party Rule

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON 

 BODY:
 LEONARD SARVER is the village atheist here.
 He is a Republican in a city where Democrats outnumber Republicans six to one, which automatically qualifies him as eccentric. He spent his own money to run twice, unsuccessfully, for City Council, which makes him positively quirky. Why would anyone want to be a Republican here when few can remember the last Republican to hold a major office? (About 20 years ago.)
 But when Mr. Sarver, 63, a Vietnam veteran and electrical contractor, reads about the spate of charges and revelations that involve Mount Vernon's politicians and touch the administration of former Mayor Ernest D. Davis, he thinks there's an argument to be made for voters to consider a return to something closer to a two-party system. Not that Republicans around the county have proved all that virtuous, but, he argues, the vigilance of officeholders from an opposition party -- any opposition -- helps keep officials from the governing party in check. 
 ''When you have single-party rule, it's very easy to cross an ethics line,'' he said. ''It's to everybody's interest to have dissenting voices. Otherwise, the Democrats start feeling omnipotent.''
 If recent criminal charges are to be believed, Mount Vernon, a city of 70,000, seems to have been run on the order of a Tammany Hall ward, with public contracts handed out to pals of commissioners, who were repaid in kickbacks. On March 19, a federal grand jury indicted a former planning commissioner, Constance G. Post, on charges that she steered city contracts worth $1 million to a local businessman, Wayne Charles, with whom the indictment says she had a ''close personal and financial relationship.'' One $500,000 contract was for computer services, a field in which, the indictment says, Mr. Charles had no experience; the indictment says he then paid Ms. Post $30,000. 
 With the help of Ms. Post, who has been suspended from her current job as the executive director of the Stamford Urban Redevelopment Commission in Connecticut, Mr. Charles also got a United States Department of Housing and Urban Development loan for $500,000 to renovate a building on Third Street, according to the indictment, a thoroughfare pocked with shuttered storefronts, seedy row houses and drug dealers. The loan was not initially entered into city records and Ms. Post did not require Mr. Charles to repay it, the indictment said. Ms. Post and Mr. Charles pleaded not guilty on Wednesday. 
 The grand jury also handed up a separate indictment that accused two officials of a garbage carting company of overbilling the city by $1.25 million for hauling away construction debris and tree branches, all while city officials nodded approval. 
 The indictments were not a surprise; less than a month before the November mayoral election, agents carted away boxes of files from City Hall. Mayor Davis, who was not charged in the indictments, was chairman of the Urban Renewal Agency, which approved contracts and loans.
 The news did not stop there. Earlier this month, The Journal News reported that Serapher Conn-Halevi, Mount Vernon's Democratic chairwoman and the city marshal, had run a political committee that paid her and her daughter $20,000 while her family was receiving $150,000 from various government jobs. Ms. Conn-Halevi did not return phone messages left at her marshal's office.
 What makes some of these accusations particularly heartbreaking is that Mount Vernon has been struggling to shake its reputation as a city plagued by crime and blighted neighborhoods, an anomaly in one of the nation's most affluent counties.
 Mount Vernon is a split city, with pockets of handsome Tudors and colonials as well as swaths of run-down housing on the Bronx border. At least two of its elementary schools are regarded as top-notch, but many wealthier families, black and white, send their children to private schools. 
 Development, particularly along once-thriving Third Street, is essential to hopes for a resurgence, but while Yonkers, New Rochelle and White Plains have seen skyscrapers and fine shops and restaurants sprout in run-down quarters, Mount Vernon is stuck in a time warp. 
 ''Mount Vernon has never reached its full potential in terms of development,'' said the new mayor, Clinton I. Young Jr., who defeated Mr. Davis last year in the Democratic primary and again in the fall, when Mr. Davis ran on the Conservative and Independent lines.
 Mr. Davis, 69, an architect with a disarmingly affable manner, offers explanations for every incident in which his administration is implicated. He also credits himself for building the one large project that may enhance Mount Vernon's revenue, the Sanford Boulevard shopping center.
 ''It's hard for people to believe that a politician can be honest,'' he said. ''I'm not a poor person. I don't need to steal other people's money. ''
 But critics say that Mr. Davis did not do a good job of opening opportunities to people outside his select circle. Janet W. Snyder, 52, Mount Vernon's Republican chairwoman and a construction executive, said that whenever she took developers to City Hall, she was rebuffed. 
 ''Mount Vernon has been a closed community, and only those in a specific circle were allowed to operate,'' she said.
 Why hasn't Mount Vernon, the state's eighth-largest city, with animating waves of immigrants from the Caribbean and Brazil, blossomed in more lively fashion? Mount Vernon's state assemblyman, J. Gary Pretlow, says he thinks that Mount Vernon, given its large poor and working-class populations, has always been more sensitive to the prospect of displacing people to make way for grand projects. 
 Mayor Young, 57, has appointed a new planning commissioner, retained what many say is an effective police commissioner and supported a school superintendent who has generally received good marks from all sides. 
 He says three or four developers come to his office every week with proposals for residential and retail projects, and he has urged the city bureaucracy to be more user friendly. He asked his planning commissioner, Jeffrey Williams, to draw up the first master plan the city has had in decades. 
 Mr. Sarver, the former Republican candidate, is hopeful that the new mayor can turns things around. ''He seems to be making an effort to make Mount Vernon more prosperous,'' he said.
 But Mr. Sarver also says that leaving everything up to Democrats could breed the feeling of invulnerability, which is the seedbed of corruption. That's why he takes heart in one gesture by Mayor Young. The mayor appointed Ms. Snyder, his Republican opponent in the November election, to his transition team and to the committee planning the initiatives of his first 100 days. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ODD MAN OUT: Leonard Sarver, a Republican in Mount Vernon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); ETHICS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



746 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: The Republic Formerly Known As

 BODY:
One thing about the Balkans, they have the most esoteric crises. NATO is holding its summit meeting next week, and wants to bring in three Balkan states -- Albania, Croatia and Macedonia. But Greece, a NATO member since 1952, is threatening to veto Macedonia's membership over its name. 
 The name ''Macedonia,'' is shared by the former Yugoslav republic and northern Greece. Viewed from outside, this seems hardly serious. But in the crowded Balkans, such spats invariably draw on centuries of carefully nurtured slights and myths -- in this dispute, both sides have claimed Alexander the Great, the greatest of history's Macedonians, dead for 2,331 years -- and can quickly flare into conflicts. 
 From the moment Macedonia declared independence in 1991, the Greeks vehemently objected to the new state's use of a name and symbols they regard as theirs. As a result, the United Nations provisionally designated the country as ''the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,'' or Fyrom. Athens has since normalized relations and many countries, including the United States, have abandoned the clumsy Fyrom in favor of Republic of Macedonia, which is what Macedonia calls itself. 
 A mediator for the United Nations, Matthew Nimitz, has proposed a bunch of what strike us as totally acceptable compromises, most recently Republic of Macedonia (Skopje). In any case, that's not the point. NATO membership is supposed to encourage and cement democratic standards in these new European states. The alliance will have to keep working -- vigilantly -- with the new members to ensure that that happens. But it is too important a project for Greece to block because of a dispute over a name.
 Tiny Macedonia poses no threat whatsoever to Greece under any name; on the contrary, its economy is highly dependent on substantial Greek investments. Bringing it into the NATO fold is good for Europe, good for the Balkans, good for Macedonia and good for Greece. The name is something Athens and Skopje can work out on the side.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Sunday about Macedonia's bid to join NATO misspelled the name of the United Nations mediator trying to resolve a dispute with Greece over Macedonia's name. It is Matthew Nimetz, not Nimitz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VETO (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (90%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (96%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (91%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (90%); ALBANIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



747 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2627 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 NEW BRUNSWICK The Stress Factory Comedy Club ''Something to Laugh About!'' A comedy show and benefit presented by Comedy Central with Pete Dominick, host. April 8 at 7:15 p.m. $45; buffet dinner included. The Stress Factory Comedy Club, 90 Church Street. (732) 545-4242; www.stressfactory.com. 
 TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe ''Comedy Night,'' featuring JP Justice, Todd Lynn and Terry Hodges. March 30 at 8 p.m. $10 and a two-drink minimum. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com. 
 FOR CHILDREN 
 ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse ''Puss in Boots,'' musical presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. $9. Through June 2. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com. 
 CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate ''Cape May Family Treasure Hunt,'' self-guided tours; continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org.
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Teddy Bear Tea,'' a tea party for stuffed animals and their owners featuring entertainment by Flavian the Magician, followed by a teddy bear parade. Ages 3 to 8. April 6, 2 to 4 p.m. $20 to $35. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org. 
 MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts Family Fun Day. Celebrate National Poetry Month by creating sidewalk poetry on the museum's walkways. April 12, 1 to 3 p.m. $3 and $5. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. (973) 377-2982; www.rosenet.org/metc. 
 MOUNTAINSIDE Echo Lake Park ''Kids Fishing Derby,'' sponsored by the Newark Bait and Fly Casting Club, featuring activities and workshops. Ages 16 and under. April 12 through May 3. Free for children; $7 for adults; registration required. Echo Lake Park, Springfield Avenue. (908) 527-4900. 
 SANDY HOOK Sandy Hook Visitor's Center Junior Naturalist, a three-hour exploration of Sandy Hook's oceanside habitats, led by a park ranger. April 5 at 2 p.m. Free; registration required. Sandy Hook Visitor's Center, Hartshorne Drive. (732) 872-5970. 
 TRENTON The New Jersey State Museum ''Family Arts Festival,'' a one-day, art-making extravaganza for the family. March 30, 1 to 5 p.m. Free. The New Jersey State Museum, 225 West State Street. (609) 292-6464; www.state.nj.us/state/museum. 
 WEST ORANGE Fellowship Hall of St. Cloud Presbyterian Church ''Big Beat, Little Beat: Explorations of Rhythm,'' an interactive children's music program with the David Braham Quartet, featuring Bob DeVos, guitarist, followed by guided dance and movement with Elisa Heinsohn. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. Admission is free with two cans of food. Fellowship Hall of St. Cloud Presbyterian Church, 20 Old Indian Road. (973) 324-9100. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 ALLENDALE Allendale Community for Mature Living Alexis Lerner, violinist, will perform works by Bach, Beriot and Kreisler, with piano accompaniment. April 6 at 2 p.m. Free. Allendale Community for Mature Living, 85 Harreton Road. (201) 796-7788. 
 CLOSTER Closter Public Library Howard Tavin Trio, jazz concert dedicated to the late musician Bill Evans. March 30, 3 to 4 p.m. Free. Closter Public Library, 280 High Street. (201) 768-4197; closter.bccls.org/.
 GLEN RIDGE Glen Ridge Congregational Church ''Psalms in Music,'' the Glen Ridge Choral Society and Orchestra perform three psalm settings by Bach, Mozart and Mendelssohn. April 6 at 3 p.m. $8 to $18. Glen Ridge Congregational Church, 195 Ridgewood Avenue. (973) 743-5596. 
 MAPLEWOOD Burgdorff Cultural Center Matthew Bengtson, pianist, will join members of the Goodnight Consort for a program of chamber music by Brahms, Haydn and Messiaen. April 6 at 3 p.m. $5 and $10. Burgdorff Cultural Center, 10 Durand Road. (973) 761-8453.
 MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University ''Italian Music Under the Star of David,'' featuring the Ensemble Salomone Rossi and other guest musicians in celebration of Italian Jewish music. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser. 
 MOORESTOWN Perkins Center for the Arts The Burning Bush, Jewish folk music. April 6 at 4 p.m. $8 to $12. Perkins Center for the Arts, 395 Kings Highway. (856) 235-6488; www.perkinscenter.org. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''Dancing Through the Ages,'' a celebration of dance performed by a large cast of professional and student dancers. April 12 at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. $7, $8 and $9. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 MORRISTOWN The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts Preservation Hall Jazz Band, performing New Orleans-style jazz. April 10 at 8 p.m. $37 to $47. Ricky Skaggs and Bruce Hornsby with Kentucky Thunder, bluegrass mountain music. April 12 at 8 p.m. $47 to $67. The Community Theater at Mayo Center for the Performing Arts, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; www.mayoarts.org. 
 NEWARKNew Jersey Performing Arts Center Newark Boys Chorus, featuring classical, pop, folk, gospel and jazz music. April 13 at 2 p.m. $12 and $22. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org. 
 PENNINGTON Pennington Presbyterian Church ''Music for Bagpipes and Organ Concert,'' featuring traditional Irish and Scottish music. March 30 at 3 p.m. Free. Pennington Presbyterian Church, 13 South Main Street. (609) 737-1221. 
 PRINCETON Johnson Education Center The Princeton Singers, chamber music. April 12 at 8 p.m. $10 and $15. Johnson Education Center, One Preservation Place. 
 TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe Bill Evans Soulgrass, with Sam Bush, jazz. Tuesday at 9 p.m. $25 and $30. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com. 
 OUTDOORS
 SANDY HOOK Sandy Hook Visitor's Center Bike Tour of Sandy Hook, moderate five-mile bike tour of historic Fort Hancock and the surrounding area. March 30 at 9 a.m. Registration required. Spring Bird Walk, a bird walk in search of arriving spring migrants; bring binoculars. April 12 at 9 a.m. Free; Registration required. Sandy Hook Visitor's Center, Hartshorne Drive. (732) 872-5970. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 FORT LEE Fort Lee Library ''Dissecting a Mystery Novel: Character, Plot, Murder and Reality,'' discussion and presentation by E. J. Rand, author of ''Say Goodbye.'' April 5 at 3 p.m. Free. Fort Lee Library, 320 Main Street. (201) 592-3614; http://fortlee.bccls.org. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum Lecture and discussion with Gregory Olsen, scientist, space traveler and entrepreneur. April 11 at 6 p.m. $12 to $20. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org. 
 NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center ''Hip Hop: Out, Loud and Proud II,'' spoken word performance. April 12 at 8 p.m. $16. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org. 
 PATERSON Passaic County Community College Distinguished Poets Series, readings by Aeronwy Thomas and Peter Thabit Jones, followed by an open reading and reception. April 5 at 1 p.m. $10. Passaic County Community College, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555. 
 TENAFLY JCC on the Palisades ''Great Zionist Thinkers,'' a lecture by Rabbi Reuven Kimelman. Through April 9. Free. J.C.C. on the Palisades, 411 East Clinton Avenue. (212) 420-8080. 
 THEATER
 CRANFORD Union County College ''Fully Committed,'' comedy by Becky Mode. Through April 13. $10 to $22. Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 659-5189. 
 LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company ''Engaging Shaw,'' a romantic comedy by John Morogiello with excerpts from George Bernard Shaw. Through April 13. $30 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; www.njrep.org. 
 MARGATE Margate Community Church ''The Dining Room,'' comedy by A. R. Gurney. Friday through April 13. $12 and $15. Margate Community Church, 8900 Ventnor Boulevard. (609) 432-9202. 
 MILLBURNPaper Mill Playhouse ''Steel Magnolias,'' drama by Robert Harling. Through April 6. $29.25 to $88.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org. 
 MONTCLAIR ''The Man in Room 306,'' one-man play about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. April 3 through May 4. $16 to $30. Luna Stage, 695 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 744-3309. www.lunastage.org. 
 MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University ''Pay Up,'' an interactive performance based on the experiments of Keith Chen, a Yale economist. Through March 30. $15. ''SubUrbia,'' drama by Eric Bogosian. Thursday through April 13. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser. 
 MONTCLAIR Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant ''Pimples and Crumbs,'' monologue by Silvia Giampaola. March 30 at 2 p.m. $15 and $20. Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant, 6 Depot Square. (973) 744-2600; www.trumpetsjazz.com. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''Rounding Third,'' comedy by Richard Dresser. Through April 20. $15 to $30. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University ''Puree,'' comedy by Demetra Kareman, presented by the Rutgers Theater Company. Through April 5. $15 to $25. Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University, 85 George Street. (732) 932-7511; www.mgsa.rutgers.edu. 
 NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center ''Julius Caesar,'' presented by the Aquila Theater Company. April 12 at 2 p.m. $12 and $22. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org. 
 ORADELL Bergen County Players ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' drama by Dale Wasserman. Through April 13. $5 to $21. ''Our Enchanted Evenings,'' Broadway-style cabaret and dance, directed by Jacqueline McElroy-Poquette. April 12 and 13. $10. Bergen County Players, 298 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 261-4200; bcplayers.org. 
 TRENTON Mill Hill Playhouse ''Tales From the Beatbox,'' hip-hop vocal percussion and monologue, performed by Yuri Lane. March 30 at 3 p.m. $10 to $20. Mill Hill Playhouse, Front and Montgomery Streets. (609) 392-0766. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''Singin' in the Rain,'' musical adapted from the classic Gene Kelly film. Through April 6. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 CAMDEN Camden County Historical Society ''Lullaby for Dreamland: The Dreamland Cafe in Lawnside,'' historic photographs of jazz clubs and other night life in Lawnside, the first incorporated African-American town north of the Mason-Dixon line. Through April 10. Free. Hours: Sundays noon to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Camden County Historical Society, 1900 Park Boulevard. (856) 964-3333; www.cchsnj.com. 
 CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts ''Proudly We Serve: Our African-American Military Experience, From the Civil War Forward,'' exhibition that highlights the contributions of African-Americans in photographs and artifacts. Through April 13. $1 and $2; free with a tour: $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org. 
 CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art ''Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country,'' exhibition showing the social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org. 
 CRANFORD Union County College ''Amelia's World: Animal Affinity,'' photographs by Robin Schwartz. Through April 17. Free. Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 659-5189. 
 JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Race: Are We So Different?'' Exhibition bringing together the experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org. 
 JERSEY CITY New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery ''Mother Cuts: Experiments in Film and Video,'' exhibition of audio-visual works by four artists. Through April 11. Free. ''Sustaining Vision: A Tribute to Arlene Raven,'' multimedia exhibition by eight women. Through April 16. Free. New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery, 100 Culver Avenue. (201) 200-3246. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Beyond Visions of Planetary Landscapes,'' solar system images by the artist Michael Benson. Through May 4. ''New Jersey Emerging Artists Series: Handmade Paper,'' works by Marie Sturken. Friday through April 20. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org. 
 MANALAPAN Monmouth County Library ''An American in China,'' photographs by Arthur Krasinsky. Through Monday. Free. Monmouth County Library, 125 Symmes Drive. (732) 431-7242. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIPMorris Museum ''Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years.'' Through May 4. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays, from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 MORRISTOWN Simon Gallery Exhibition of acrylic paintings by Matthew Craig. Through April 19. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Simon Gallery, 48 Bank Street. (973) 538-5456. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, Advertising and Ephemera,'' exhibition featuring 75 posters from the 1900s. Through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University, Douglass Library ''Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture -- Part 1,'' exhibition of contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana--womens.shtml. 
 NEWARK City Without Walls ''1800Frames/Take 4: The Video State of the Global Union,'' one-minute video exhibition. April 12 through May 30. Free. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. City Without Walls, 6 Crawford Street. (973) 622-1188; www.cwow.org. 
 NEWARKNewark Museum ''Glass Beads of Ghana,'' exhibition of glass beads made with varied techniques and materials. Through June 15. ''O, Write My Name: American Portraits -- Harlem Heroes,'' exhibition of 50 portraits by Carl Van Vechten between 1930 and 1960. Through June 15. ''Small but Sublime: Intimate Views by Durand, Bierstadt and Inness.'' Wednesday through February 2009. ''Women's Tales: Four Leading Israeli Jewelers,'' exhibition of contemporary jewelry. Through June 25. $3 to $7; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; October through June, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; July through September, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org. 
 PATERSON Passaic County Community College ''Mexican Revolutionary Prints,'' from the collection of Kutztown University of Pennsylvania. Through April 30. Free. Passaic County Community College, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JERSEY CITY: The film classic ''All About Eve,'' with, from left, Thelma Ritter as Birdie, Bette Davis as Margo Channing, Anne Baxter as Eve Harrington and Celeste Holm as Karen Richards, will be screened at the Landmark Loew's Jersey Theater on April 12 at 7:30 p.m. Ms. Holm will be the host. Tickets are $4 and $6. 54 Journal Square. (201) 798-6055
www.loewsjersey.org. (pg. NJ14)
NEWARK: The Philadanco dance company performs contemporary pieces at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center on April 5 at 7 p.m. Tickets are $20 and $22. 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722
www.njpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOIS GREENFIELD) (pg. NJ14)
MONTCLAIR: Excerpts from the new opera ''Elmer Gantry,'' with Jennifer Rivera and Keith Phares, are part of ''American Spring,'' a celebration of performing arts and the centennial of Montclair State University. April 2, from 2 to 5 p.m. at the Alexander Kasser Theater. Free. Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112
www.montclair.edu. (pg. NJ15)
 MAPLEWOOD: Brian Corrigan and Bev Sheehan are in ''The Housekeeper,'' a comedy by James Prideaux presented by the What Exit? Theater Company through April 13. Tickets are $15 to $25. Burgdorff Cultural Center, 10 Durand Road. (973) 761-8453. (pg. NJ13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); MUSIC (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); MUSIC GENRES (71%); POETRY (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); SPORT FISHING (67%); FESTIVALS (66%); THEATER (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



748 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Guess Who's Coming to Power

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER. 
Raymond Bonner, a foreign correspondent for The Times, has lived on every continent but Antarctica and has reported from more than 80 countries.

 BODY:
THE SECOND WORLD 
 Empires and Influence in the New Global Order. 
 By Parag Khanna. 
 Illustrated. 466 pp. Random House. $29. 
 After the collapse of Communism, the ''new world order'' quickly disintegrated into the new world disorder, as pent-up nationalism erupted, most dramatically in the Balkans. The nationalistic volcano subsided, replaced by fears about the ''clash of civilizations,'' which meant the West against the rest, and primarily Islam. After 9/11, the ''ism'' of concern became ''terrorism,'' and our book shelves groan under the weight of policy prescriptions from public officials, academics, journalists and even former spies.
 Now, a young, well-traveled, multilingual foreign-policy scholar, Parag Khanna, suggests in ''The Second World'' that we are on the cusp of a new new world order -- ''a multipolar and multicivilizational world of three distinct superpowers competing on a planet of shrinking resources.'' The three are the United States, the European Union and China. The contest now is primarily for the world's limited resources, and it will be waged in Khanna's second world. ''From Eastern Europe to Central Asia, from South America across the Arab world and into Southeast Asia, the race to win the second world is on.'' 
 His is not an apocalyptic scenario. Indeed, he agrees with the view that increasing globalization leads to decreasing chances of war. And since each of the new empires has nuclear weapons, ''economic power is more important than military power.'' Thus, the competition will be won through ''soft power,'' effective diplomacy and attractive social models (the liberal democracy of the United States and European Union versus China's mixed structures). 
 But is the European Union a superpower? Yes, its economy and population are larger than those of the United States, and more countries are trying to get in. But it cannot be said yet whether such a diverse gathering of nations will be able to agree on a common foreign policy -- Spain and other union members disagree on how to handle Hugo Chavez -- or whether Paris and London are ready to surrender foreign policy to Brussels. 
 There can be little doubt, however, that China will be a superpower. It does not have to conquer the world militarily, just buy it. In Venezuela, China is now the largest source of foreign investment, and has offered to build homes and a fiber-optic network. Argentina's economic recovery is heavily dependent on agricultural exports -- to China. In Egypt, China is investing in everything from the Suez Canal and cement factories to electronics companies and convention centers. In Jordan, it has built four of the country's five new dams, ''with remarkable efficiency,'' Khanna writes. 
 China has some advantages when it comes to competing with the United States and the European Union, which are not all that laudatory, but which Khanna glosses over. It has no law prohibiting its companies from paying bribes in order to get contracts; anecdotal stories abound about the amounts of money handed out in Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as the Middle East and Africa. (The same is true for Japanese and Korean companies.) Nor is there a human rights lobby in China, or a free press, to take the country's leaders to task for supporting corrupt, dictatorial regimes -- Zimbabwe, Sudan, Syria and Uzbekistan among them.
 Still, if the United States is going to compete successfully, the next administration must undertake some deep-seated fixes at the State Department. In the Arab world, Khanna notes, Chinese diplomats ''show deference to local culture by learning Arabic and even taking Arabic names.'' America will not become more diplomatically competitive by cutting the State Department further, as many conservatives would like. Already, America's image and standing in the world have been weakened immensely by closing American libraries and consulates, or putting them behind forbidding security barriers (and also, of course, by the administration's rendition and torture policies). The diplomatic ranks need to grow; there are more musicians in America's military bands than there are foreign service officers, and the generals and admirals who head the various commands, like the Central Command or Centcom in Florida, have more aides and advisers than the country has ambassadors and assistant secretaries of state. 
 The notion that the United States will not be the world's only superpower, that it will have to share power with Europe and China, will horrify many Americans. Conservatives believe the nation's self-interest is best served by using its military power to remain on top; liberals are just as committed to keeping America No. 1 in the name of ''humanitarian intervention.'' But there may be real benefits to the United States, as well as to other democracies, from a tripartite world order.
 Khanna is full of praise for the European Union's development aid programs, which he says are directed to building public institutions like courts. But the Europeans, like the Americans, often put as much emphasis on getting credit for their help as they do on actually making a difference; it remains to be seen whether European programs will become overly bureaucratic and, like American projects, spend too much on consultants and economic studies. American taxpayers should be delighted, in any case, to let Europe bear more of the development burden. 
 Khanna is something of a foreign policy whiz kid. He has a degree from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown, and is pursuing a doctorate at the London School of Economics. Only 30 years old, he has already been a fellow at several research institutes and has served as an adviser to the United States Special Operations Forces in Afghanistan and Iraq. Yet he tries to do too much in this book. A more accurate title might be ''Around the World in 400 Pages.'' 
 Khanna mentions about 100 countries, some in only a sentence or a few paragraphs, as if to prove that he has indeed visited that many places. The section on Latin America is overly long; a look at Mexico, Brazil and, briefly, Venezuela would have sufficed. And it is hard to understand why he devotes so much attention to Malaysia, except when one notes that he was a visiting fellow at a public policy institute in neighboring Singapore. On the other hand, his chapters on Kazakhstan and on Egypt, which he describes as ''a country ripe for revolution,'' both make the book worth buying.
 By trying to cover so many bases, Khanna dilutes his most important arguments. Russia, he observes for example, ''has no divine right to continue in its present form.'' This says considerably more than it seems to at first. The country's vast eastern section is being gobbled up by China through investment and immigration. 
 Khanna is obviously not shy about making bold statements. He disputes the popular view that India will emerge as a check to China. ''India is big but not yet important,'' he writes. ''It could also be argued that China is a freer country than democratic India.'' By that, Khanna means, literacy is higher and the poverty rate lower in China; it has more Internet connections and cellphones; and it is easier to start a business in China than in India. 
 In similar grand fashion, he states that Iran is at once ''an authoritarian regime and perhaps the most democratic country in the region.'' And ''Islam and democracy are certainly more compatible than authoritarianism and democracy.'' Iraq will cease to exist, he declares flatly (though he offers no prescription for what the next administration should do there). A Kurdish state, meanwhile, is inevitable. Closer to home, Khanna has this provocative thought: The United States should offer Mexico the same deal it wants the Europeans to offer Turkey: inclusion, citizenship, open migration, enormous subsidies and language rights. One wonders what the presidential candidates might say about that.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL BEJAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LIBERALISM (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); WRITERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); ELECTRONICS (63%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); RELIGION (56%); AGRICULTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); CEMENT MFG (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EGYPT (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

TITLE: Second World, The (Book)>; Second World, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



749 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Walking the Talk

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ERARD. 
Michael Erard is the author of ''Um ... : Slips, Stumbles, and Verbal Blunders, and What They Mean.''

 BODY:
BASTARD TONGUES 
 A Trailblazing Linguist Finds Clues to Our Common Humanity in the World's Lowliest Languages. 
 By Derek Bickerton. 
 270 pp. Hill & Wang. $26. 
 Most linguists approach language as just another kind of natural fact, like cells or rocks. Most of the intellectual action takes place in chairs, and it ends less often in triumphant discovery than in quiet revelation.
 Then there's Derek Bickerton. One of the field's old lions, he has spent the last four decades studying pidgins and Creoles and writing a few novels on the side. A self-described macho ''street linguist'' for whom fieldwork is part pub crawl, Bickerton has a penchant for big ideas and a ''total lack of respect for the respectable'' that, judging from his new memoir, has put him at odds with bureaucrats and colleagues. ''Bastard Tongues'' is gossipy, vain and pugilistic -- in other words, all the juicy things an academic memoir should be but too rarely is. 
 The book opens with Bickerton wading ashore on a remote Pacific island. If we discount bar stools, little of the subsequent action takes place in chairs. In fact, Bickerton always seems to be leaping out of them. After finishing his doctorate, he writes, he'd gotten all the nonsense out of the way and ''could now get on with the serious business of life. Which is, of course, finding out stuff.'' With this same irresistibly headlong tone, he describes jetting off to Guyana, Hawaii, Mauritius, Suriname and elsewhere to explore his ideas about languages without pedigrees. 
 Pidgins are contact languages invented by people who don't share a language to use. Pidgin speakers, Bickerton explains, will ''use words from your language if they know them; if not, they'll use words from their own, and hope you know them, and failing that, words from any other language that might happen to be around.'' Some pidgins, like Chinese Pidgin English (once spoken along China's coast) or the Chinook jargon of the American Northwest, originated in voluntary trade contexts. Others arose from the slave trade and plantation economies. 
 Compared with pidgins, Creoles have bigger vocabularies and more grammar; the conventional view is that they are pidgins that became someone's native language (though some linguists disagree). Many Creoles -- like Saramaccan, an English/Portuguese Creole spoken in Suriname, and Seselwa, a French Creole spoken in the Seychelles -- have more features in common (like their verbs) than you'd expect from languages that have never been in contact. Is this because they were created when English, French or Portuguese words were laid onto the same bed of grammar as African languages? Or because later generations learned both the pidgin and their parents' languages, mingling the two? Or because a pidgin was created once, perhaps in a West African slave trade outpost or by sailors, and then transmitted elsewhere? 
 Bickerton swats down all these theories and explains how he arrived at his own solution, the language bioprogram hypothesis, which he elaborated in the book ''Roots of Language'' (1981). According to this idea, a pidgin becomes a Creole when children learn it, filling in the grammatical gaps with patterns and words that come not from any specific language but from some universal language template they all carry in their heads. This was an extension of Noam Chomsky's influential claim for an innate universal grammar possessed uniquely by humans.
 You'd expect an idea like the bioprogram hypothesis from someone with the habit of jumping out of chairs. Nailing it down, however, requires more ''sitzfleisch'' (literally, flesh for sitting) than Bickerton acknowledges having. Amid all the tales of partying with beautiful Brazilian graduate students and bouncing though the Colombian mountains in the back of trucks, he neglects to mention that other scholars (including some of his own students) have delivered some heavy blows to the bioprogram idea in the last decade. They're unlikely to write memoirs, however, especially ones as diverting as ''Bastard Tongues.'' Bickerton invokes local histories, social factors and other variables to defend the bioprogram from the claim that all those grammatical bricoleurs in diapers didn't push their Creoles in the same direction. Here's where a peculiarity of Creole studies, which has rumbled in the background of the book, comes to the fore: evaluating any claim means whacking through a jungle of detail in which arguments about, say, verbs in some Dutch Creole depend on data about population crashes in Suriname in the late 17th century. 
 Bickerton may yet be proved right, especially if some reality-TV producer or billionaire philanthropist gets behind an experiment he hatched in the late 1970s. Bickerton proposed marooning six couples speaking six different languages along with children too young to have learned their parents' language on a Pacific island for a year, to see what language the adults might figure out and how the kids might alter it. The National Science Foundation objected to the project on ethical grounds, and the experiment was not financed. Bickerton is happy to let someone else take up his idea and finally put a stop to all the ''word wastage'' of arguments about ''how much language structure the brain can create.'' ''I'm out of it,'' Bickerton writes -- though the reader hardly believes his modesty. ''I'll consult, if asked. ... All I care about are the results.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVONNE BICKERTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LINGUISTICS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (68%); SLAVERY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (51%) HAWAII, USA (79%) SURINAME (86%); SEYCHELLES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); GUYANA (54%)

TITLE: Bastard Tongues (Book)>; Bastard Tongues (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



750 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: The Drug Scare That Exposed a World of Hurt

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH

 BODY:
When cold medicine containing a poison made in China killed nearly 120 Panamanians in 2006 and early 2007, Americans could take some comfort in the belief that a similar epidemic could never happen here, not with one of the best drug regulatory systems in the world.
 Then last spring, hundreds if not thousands of pets died or were sickened in the United States by a Chinese pet food ingredient that contained lethal levels of melamine, an industrial product used to artificially boost protein levels. That was followed quickly by the discovery that Americans were brushing their teeth with Chinese toothpaste containing a poisonous chemical used in antifreeze. 
 Still, no Americans died from the chemical. 
 And then came heparin. 
 A hugely popular blood thinner used in surgery and dialysis, heparin turned out in some cases to contain a mystery substance that sophisticated lab tests earlier this month determined to be a chemically modified substance that mimics the real drug. The United States Food and Drug Administration has linked it to 19 deaths and hundreds of severe allergic reactions, though the agency is still investigating whether the contaminant was the actual cause.
 What a difference a year makes.
 After many near misses and warning signs, the heparin scare has eliminated any doubt that, here and abroad, regulatory agencies overseeing the safety of medicine are overwhelmed in a global economy where supply chains are long and opaque, and often involve many manufacturers.
 ''In the 1990s governments were all about trying to maximize the volume of international trade,'' said Moises Naim, editor in chief of Foreign Policy magazine and author of ''Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers and Copycats Are Hijacking the Global Economy.'' ''I'm all for that, but I believe this decade is going to be about maximizing the quality of that trade, not quantity.''
 Mr. Naim said the heparin scare is already having a ''huge'' impact, fueling worldwide anxiety over imported medicine and a growing demand for consumer protection.
 Congressional Democrats are talking about authorizing more money so the F.D.A. can do more overseas inspections, particularly in China, where more and more drug ingredients are made. The agency is also completing a plan to permanently station employees in China for the first time.
 ''Just focusing on the borders of the United States does not work,'' said Dr. Murray Lumpkin, a deputy commissioner at the F.D.A. ''In order for us to do our job better domestically, we have to work better internationally.''
 Chinese drug regulators have also begun to take small steps toward plugging some of the country's gaping regulatory holes, particularly with the thousands of chemical companies that sell pharmaceutical ingredients without a drug license. Regulators have much to do and many obstacles to overcome in trying to adapt to changes brought on by globalization.
 The way heparin is made and distributed illustrates the challenges they face. The drug's raw material comes from mucous membranes in the intestines of slaughtered pigs. Those membranes are mixed together and cooked, a process that in China often takes place in unregulated family workshops.
 It is then transported to middlemen, called consolidators, who direct the product to plants in China that manufacture heparin's active ingredient for shipment to either another trader or the finished dose manufacturer. In the United States, the tainted ingredients ended up at Baxter International, which later had to recall the blood thinner.
 Since the outbreak in the United States, Japan and several countries in Europe have recalled certain heparin products made with Chinese ingredients. In some instances, European traders buy and sell the heparin to companies in other countries, extending the supply chain even more.
 Anti-counterfeiting experts say that the longer the chain, the greater the opportunity for counterfeiters to adulterate the product. In fact, F.D.A. investigators have yet to figure out where in the multistage manufacturing process the chemical that mimics heparin was added.
 ''Advanced technology and global manufacturing outlets have made fake drugs a big and illicit business that is literally poisoning patients,'' said Alan C. Drewsen, executive director of the International Trademark Association.
 And since supply chains often pass through more than one country, there is no government agency with the power to police all of it. The World Health Organization runs a program that helps track counterfeit medicine, but it has no regulatory authority.
 Manufacturers also need to do a better job of testing imported ingredients, drug experts say.
 For example, tests failed to detect the heparin-like contaminant because it was so similar to the real thing. And that worries Dr. Roger L. Williams, chief executive of the United States Pharmacopeia, which sets quality standards for medicine and supplements.
 ''What you are seeing here is the tip of the iceberg,'' Dr. Williams said. ''How do we know what else has gone wrong?''
 He said, for example, that melamine was missed because ''we have a bad test for protein.'' Other tests should also be improved, he said. To help companies identify diethylene glycol, the inexpensive poison that ended up in Panamanian cold medicine and in Chinese toothpaste, USP recently came up with a better way of determining if that poison is present.
 Some leading members of Congress don't want to rely so heavily on manufacturers to protect the public, particularly afterreports said poor management and scientific inadequacies have weakened the F.D.A.
 More than 500 plants in China export drug ingredients to the United States but the agency inspected only 13 of them last year.
 One of the plants not inspected was the one that made the contaminated heparin ingredient. That plant, Changzhou SPL, blames someone else further upstream in the supply chain for selling tainted raw materials.
 The F.D.A. is continuing to investigate.
 ''We can blame the Chinese for this stuff as much as we want, but the truth of the matter is we are the people who are buying,'' said Joseph G. Acker, president of a chemical trade association. 
 And Mr. Acker points a finger at the F.D.A., adding, ''I think that organization needs a total overhaul.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUPPLY CHAIN: This family-owned workshop in Xinwangzhuang, a village in Juangsu Province, China, processes pig intestines. Mucous membranes from the intestines are used to make heparin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIANA LINDQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTICOAGULANTS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); ANIMAL FOODS (76%); PET FOODS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ORAL HYGIENE (70%); WRITERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ALLERGIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



751 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Stephanie Carter, Samuel Glickman

 BODY:
Stephanie Janice Carter, the daughter of Concordia S. Carter and John C. Carter of Scarsdale, N.Y., was married there on Friday to Samuel Reuben Glickman, the son of Anne S. Glickman and Franklin J. Glickman of Brookline, Mass. The Rev. Frances Wise Grenley, a minister of the United Church of Christ, performed the ceremony at Scarsdale Congregational Church. 
 The bride, 30, will continue to use her name professionally. She graduated from Wellesley. She is in her fourth year of study for a combined degree of Doctor of Medicine and Master of Public Health from Brown.
 Her father is a professor of management science at Pace. Her mother, who is retired, was responsible for the maintenance of the home and field offices for the United Nations Development Program, in New York. 
 The bridegroom, 29, graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, and is in his third year of study for a Doctor of Medicine at Brown.
 His mother works in Boston as the editorial director of the kindergarten through 12th-grade publishing services group of Aptara, an information technology firm with headquarters in Falls Church, Va. His father is a graphic designer in Brookline who specializes in business logos, letterheads and publication design. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (65%); PUBLISHING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



752 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Death in the Pacific

BYLINE: By EVAN THOMAS. 
Evan Thomas, an editor at large at Newsweek, is the author of ''Sea of Thunder: Four Commanders and the Last Great Naval Campaign, 1941-1945.''

 BODY:
RETRIBUTION 
 The Battle for Japan, 1944-45. 
 By Max Hastings. 
 Illustrated. 615 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35. 
 In the war against Japan, American naval commanders faced what might be called the prison ship problem. Submarines had little way of knowing which Japanese transport ships were carrying prisoners of war. In any case, ''the U.S. Navy adopted a ruthless view,'' Max Hastings writes. ''Destruction of the enemy must take priority over any attempt to safeguard P.O.W. lives.'' As a result, some 10,000 Allied prisoners were doomed (including more than twice as many Americans as have perished in Iraq). And if the Americans didn't kill the P.O.W.'s, then the Japanese did. Aboard the tramp steamer Shinyo Maru, the Japanese guard commander told the prisoners that if the ship was attacked, he would slaughter them all. As promised, when it was torpedoed in September 1944, the Japanese guards machine-gunned the prisoners trying to abandon ship. About 20 men escaped into the sea and were rescued by another Japanese ship. When their identities were learned, they were executed. 
 War, while sometimes necessary, is rarely ennobling. The war in the Pacific seems to have been particularly degrading. The Japanese massacred and tortured American soldiers and horribly abused civilians; the United States bombed and burned their cities. In his masterly account of the climax of the conflict against Japan, ''Retribution: The Battle for Japan, 1944-45,'' Hastings suggests a kind of perversion of the golden rule. Combatants who brutalize their enemy will be brutalized in return, or, in Hastings's rather delicate phrasing, ''It has been suggested ... that few belligerents in any conflict are so high-minded as to offer to an enemy higher standards of treatment than that enemy extends to them.'' 
 Other authors, especially John Dower, have shown that race added a nasty edge to the Pacific war. Hastings memorably quotes the way the British general Sir William Slim captured the mood of the time: the Japanese soldier, Slim said, ''is the most formidable fighting insect in history.'' The Americans' racial hatred was no less harsh. Returning to Hawaii from combat on Iwo Jima, some marines paraded in front of Japanese-Americans, waving a Japanese skull and taunting, ''There's your uncle on the pole.''
 But Hastings rejects moral equivalency. Defending the use of the atom bomb, he essentially argues that by the cruel logic of war, the Japanese beckoned fate. ''War is inherently inhumane,'' he writes, ''but the Japanese practiced extraordinary refinements of inhumanity in the treatment of those thrown upon their mercy.'' Sadism by the Japanese was not occasional but institutional. Prisoners of war and civilian internees were starved, bayoneted, beheaded, raped and, in some cases, vivisected.
 The Japanese were careless even with the lives of their own troops. The Japanese Navy, unlike the American Navy, had no search and rescue for downed fliers, and so lost hundreds of experienced aviators. Militarists twisted the ancient samurai code of Bushido into a sick cult of death. The Japanese were supposed to wish for death over surrender, and as the war went on, the Americans accommodated them. After Japanese prisoners tried to sabotage American submarines, the subs stopped picking them up, and soon most United States ships refused to rescue Japanese in the water, except to pick up an occasional ''intelligence sample.'' Since surrender was considered shameful, any Americans who had given themselves up were deemed to have lost their honor and thus ''forfeited fundamental human respect.''
 In 1942, the Japanese prime minister, Gen. Hideki Tojo, was told nothing of the Japanese Navy's defeat at Midway until weeks after the event. ''Faced with embarrassment,'' Hastings writes, ''Japanese often resort to silence -- mokusatsu.'' By the summer of 1944, the Japanese were beaten but refused to accept defeat. When the first kamikazes flew that October, Japanese pilots vied for the honor of killing themselves (though their enthusiasm waned over time). Such ritualized suicide chilled the Americans. ''I could imagine myself in the heat of battle where I would perhaps instinctively take some sudden action that would almost surely result in death,'' wrote Ben Bradlee, a young officer on a destroyer (and later the executive editor of The Washington Post). ''I could not imagine waking up some morning at 5 a.m., going to some church to pray and knowing that in a few hours I would crash my plane into a ship on purpose.''
 Japan's madness brought out American ruthlessness. At Dugway Proving Ground in Utah in 1943, the Americans built a small Japanese village, complete with straw tatami mats, to prove how easily and quickly it could be burned. ''The panic side of the Japanese is amazing,'' William McGovern, an intelligence analyst in the Office of Strategic Services, told a Washington planning meeting in September 1944. Fire ''is one of the great things they are terrified at from childhood.'' The policy of Gen. Curtis LeMay of the 20th Bomber Command was simple: ''Bomb and burn 'em till they quit.'' On the night of March 9, 1945, the B-29 pilot Robert Ramer recorded in his diary: ''Suddenly, way off at about 2 o'clock, I saw a glow on the horizon like the sun rising or maybe the moon. The whole city of Tokyo was below us stretching from wingtip to wingtip, ablaze in one enormous fire with yet more fountains of flame pouring down from the B-29s. The black smoke billowed up thousands of feet, causing powerful thermal currents that buffeted our plane severely, bringing with it the horrible smell of burning flesh.'' Around 100,000 people died; a million were rendered homeless. 
 LeMay has gone down in history as a Dr. Strangelove figure who advocated bombing North Vietnam ''back into the Stone Age.'' But Hastings notes that the responsibility for methodically incinerating Japan more properly lies with civilian commanders from Roosevelt and Churchill on down, including the genteel secretary of war Henry Stimson, who fretted over slaughtering civilians but did not stop it. ''The material damage inflicted ... by LeMay's offensive was almost irrelevant,'' Hastings notes, ''because blockade and raw-material starvation had already brought the economy to the brink of collapse.'' The fire bombings' real purpose was terror, to break the Japanese will to resist. That took some doing; two atom bombs in August were barely enough. Die-hard militarists tried to stage a coup rather than permit the emperor to surrender. Hastings convincingly argues that the atom bombs were necessary, though he regrets that the Americans did not first offer warning. 
 Hastings is a military historian in the grand tradition, belonging on the shelf alongside John Keegan, Alistair Horne and Rick Atkinson. He is equally adept at analyzing the broad sweep of strategy and creating thrilling set pieces that put the reader in the cockpit of a fighter plane or the conning tower of a submarine. But he is best on the human cost of war. He describes an American soldier's bewilderment on reading the diary found on a dead Japanese soldier during the bloody battle of Manila. The Japanese soldier ''wrote of his love for his family, eulogized the beauty of a sunset -- then described how he participated in a massacre of Filipinos during which he clubbed a baby against a tree.'' Americans were shocked by the Japanese massacre of civilians in Manila. After a month of constant bombardment, the United States Army left much of the city in rubble.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The industrial area of Tokyo after bombing by the Allies, 1945. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); TORTURE (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); WRITERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (58%); US NAVY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Retribution: The Battle for Japan, 1944-45 (Book)>; Retribution: The Battle for Japan, 1944-45 (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



753 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Sisters in Idiosyncrasy

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
EVE LEVINE, a 34-year-old real estate broker, recalls fondly the five years when she was, as she calls it, ''low-cost bicoastal.'' Her primary residence was in Brooklyn -- first Williamsburg, then Bushwick and now Greenpoint -- but she also had an apartment in the Fruitvale section of Oakland, Calif., that she visited for long stretches. 
 The apartment, actually a warehouse, was really big and inexpensive, she said. Friends paid the rent, but Ms. Levine said she could come back whenever she wanted, because they were friends.
 In the fall of 2005, she severed ties to her West Coast warehouse. 
 ''If you are trying to build something, whether a career or a bank account, you need to make a choice,'' she said. 
 These days, she is a host of a gathering in Williamsburg called Home Buying for Hipsters, at which she explains the idea of Tenancy in Common, a form of ownership that enables people to combine their resources to buy a house jointly instead of just renting together. It is popular in the San Francisco Bay Area, she said, and she hopes to bring it to Brooklyn, where there is a similar pool of young people who have a history of sharing apartments through their 20's.
 ''A lot of us are freelance,'' said Ms. Levine, who in earlier life was a chef. ''None of us work for a company for 30 years. We bounce from job to job.''
 ''Not to say that we are flaky,'' she quickly added.
 Between Brooklyn and San Francisco, Ms. Levine said, there is ''something sisterly.''
 Much the way Hollywood people have shuttled between Los Angeles and Manhattan for decades, or academics commute on the Acela between Morningside Heights and Cambridge, Mass., there is a young, earnest population that is beating a path between artsy, gentrifying neighborhoods in Brooklyn and their counterparts in the Bay Area, especially East Oakland and the area south of Market Street in San Francisco, or SoMa.
 Richard Florida, the author of ''The Rise of the Creative Class,'' which argues that urban renewal is sparked by high concentrations of high-tech workers, artists, gay men and lesbians, ranked San Francisco No. 1 on his ''creativity index'' and New York City No. 9. Although Mr. Florida did not break out data for Brooklyn, ''anecdotally it has a large concentration of creative people who have moved from Manhattan and elsewhere,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''I am confident if such data existed, Brooklyn would do very well.''
 He added that the populations drawn to both areas by alternative art and music scenes, and by a tolerance for diversity, were looking for a ''messy urbanism, a clash of different styles that Brooklyn still retains, that the East Bay still retains.''
 Other communities across the country also fit this bill, but what Brooklyn and the East Bay share is proximity to more cosmopolitan centers -- Manhattan and San Francisco -- where the ''creative class,'' many of whom are freelancers, can earn a living.
 ''You can make money in both cities,'' Ms. Levine said. ''Can you make money in Portland, Ore.? It's a cool city, it's got lots of hipsters, but can you make money?''
 Roger Guenveur Smith, an actor who has been ''flowing in and out'' of the Bay Area and Brooklyn since the late 1980s, said the two areas are similar in the relationship that Brooklyn has to Manhattan, and Oakland and Berkeley have to San Francisco: one of interest and curiosity, but also independence.
 Mr. Smith's career includes the borough-defining Brooklyn movie ''Do the Right Thing,'' as well as a one-man show about Huey P. Newton, a founder of the Black Panther Party in Oakland. He describes the two places as the ultimate ''idiosyncratic communities'' in the United States.
 Dave Eggers, a writer and publisher, is another commuter on the Bay Area-Brooklyn shuttle. He relocated from the Bay Area a decade ago to create the McSweeney's publishing empire in Brooklyn, then in 2002 moved McSweeney's west and founded 826 Valencia, a children's writing workshop, in the gritty Mission District of San Francisco. An offshoot, 826NYC, has taken root in Park Slope in Brooklyn. 
 The Mark Morris Dance Group is based at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, but puts on more shows at Cal Performances at the University of California, Berkeley, its West Coast home since 2002.
 IF there is an aesthetic credo to Brooklyn and the Bay Area, it is Do It Yourself, which connotes more than using an Allen wrench from Ikea. D.I.Y. can mean everything from wearing locally designed T-shirts to attending concerts staged in someone's warehouse apartment, to riding a bike to work.
 Several businesses that have opened in both Brooklyn and the Bay Area exemplify the aesthetic. One of them, Rare Device, a home furnishings and fashion store in Park Slope, sells felted throw pillows and ''wildcrafted soap.'' 
 Rena Tom, who opened the store after she followed her husband east from Oakland so he could study architecture at Columbia University, said, ''I asked where to move and they all said 'Brooklyn, Park Slope.' '' Eventually the couple relocated to San Francisco and she opened a second Rare Device on Market Street.
 ''We are cross-pollinating,'' she said.
 The Mollusk Surf Shop is also bicoastal. Its original outlet is in the Outer Sunset district of San Francisco, blocks from Ocean Beach. Last summer, a second Mollusk, selling hand-shaped surfboards, opened on Kent Avenue in Williamsburg.
 Michael Machemer, the manager in Brooklyn, said the San Francisco and Long Island surfing cultures had similarities. ''In San Francisco, the weather is cloudy, cold, gray,'' he said. ''It's the same here. Sure, we get sunny days, but it is especially cloudy and gray in the winter, when we get our best waves.'' 
 PEOPLE enjoy mapping connections between Brooklyn neighborhoods and those around the San Francisco Bay. Rob Reedy, who works for Chrome Bags in San Francisco, which makes accessories for bike messengers, said, ''We live in SoMa, which is the Brooklyn of San Francisco.'' 
 Meg Shiffler, who left Williamsburg two and half years ago to become the director of the gallery at the San Francisco Arts Commission, said, ''East Bay to Brooklyn is the parallel.'' 
 Cameron Marlow, a Facebook programmer in San Francisco, wrote in his blog about a friend who moved to New York and, after being shown apartments in Williamsburg, was surprised to find the neighborhood was not ''cute.''
 For the benefit of Bay Area readers, Mr. Marlow compared Williamsburg to the Mission District, an equally uncute neighborhood, with a large Hispanic population that has seen an influx of Mr. Florida's ''creative class.'' 
 Even if it is easy to mock the uniformity of tastes in dress, music and haircuts of these newcomers, Mr. Florida, who is a business professor at Toronto University, is sympathetic. ''I don't want to blame the hipsters,'' he said. ''They are searching for places that are real and authentic. Many are isolated, many are alone. They were looking to avoid Generica. They were turned off by areas that had the same stores, Starbucks, etc.''
 Danny Hoch, a Brooklynite, recently performed ''Taking Over,'' a one-man show about gentrification, at the Berkeley Rep Theater in California. ''What I see as the reason for so many NYers having come to the Bay, and so many Bay folk moving to Bklyn (tens of thousands literally),'' he wrote in an e-mail message, ''is that each group has become accustomed to the alienation or perceived impossibility of staying where they are.'' 
 Someone leaving Brooklyn for the Bay Area, he said, gets ''a nicer climate, laid-back vibe, better produce, California's nature close by, and a job scene where you feel more in demand as a NYer.''
 The reverse, he said, is also true. 
 But Mr. Hoch predicted that the transience that allows people to hop between both places so fluidly would eventually lead them away.
 ''Although I think each side sees the other as an amazing place to live and spend time, neither sees it as a place to actually stay forever,'' he wrote. ''Both are nostalgic for home.'' 
 ''Each becomes the new 'resident tourist,' as I say in my play.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about creative people in their 20s who pool resources to buy homes in the San Francisco area and Brooklyn misstated the educational affiliation of Richard Florida, a business professor who spoke about the influx of a ''creative class'' into those areas. He is at the University of Toronto. There is no Toronto University. The article also misidentified the home base of the Mark Morris Dance Company. It has its own building in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and is not based at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, where it has performed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GEORGE BATES)(pg. ST1)
 CHART: Broakland? Sanfrooklyn? A Visitor's Guide Chart details various photos, maps and links between Brooklyn and San Francisco. (pg. ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); RANKINGS (64%); WRITERS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



754 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By TARA McKELVEY. 
Tara McKelvey, a senior editor at The American Prospect, is a frequent contributor to the Book Review and the author of ''Monstering: Inside America's Policy of Secret Interrogations and Torture in the Terror War.''

 BODY:
BLACK GLASSES LIKE CLARK KENT: A GI's Secret From Postwar Japan, by Terese Svoboda. (Graywolf, paper, $14.) When Svoboda's uncle Don, who had served as an M.P. at a prison in postwar Japan, died, he left behind a mystery. In taped reminiscences, he had talked about wide-scale executions of American prisoners. ''The prison was getting overcrowded,'' he had said, and a captain ''said he was going to have to start executing the prisoners, the ones in the death cells.'' Or Don may have accidentally killed a prisoner; he never mentioned the death on tape, but his brother believes it happened. After the Abu Ghraib scandal in 2004, he suffered from depression and symptoms of post-traumatic stress. 
''How 'post' is post?'' Svoboda asks the Harvard psychohistorian Robert Jay Lifton. ''It's certainly not fixed in time,'' he says. ''Sixty years? It's been documented.'' Throughout the book, Svoboda, a poet and fiction writer, seems self-absorbed, describing a weight-lifting class (''I curl a bicep'') and domestic scenes. Yet ''Black Glasses Like Clark Kent'' is suspenseful, and contains a message about war that makes it worthwhile. She interviews people here and in Japan, but never determines whether her uncle knew firsthand about war crimes or imagined them. It almost doesn't matter: his depression was debilitating; he tried antidepressants and electroshock. The thing that sustained him was talking into the tape recorder, describing his nightmare. When he was done, he killed himself, another casualty of war. 
 WINNER TAKES ALL: Steve Wynn, Kirk Kerkorian, Gary Loveman, and the Race to Own Las Vegas. by Christina Binkley. (Hyperion, $25.95.) Binkley, a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, traces the gambling industry and its hub, Las Vegas, during a time in which Vegas went from Sin City (pre-1989) to Kid Friendly (early 1990s) and, happily, back to ''cards, sex, all-night partying.'' In addition, she paints portraits of characters like Steve Wynn, with his ''Vegas style'' hair; his antique Dante volumes, their pages gutted and replaced with Styrofoam (a perfect metaphor for the new Vegas and its ersatz Paris/New York themes); and his family, which has a flair for drama. His wife, for example, describes the trauma of being forced to sell Mirage Resorts: ''It's like 9/11.'' Binkley examines the neck-chain-and-pinkie-ring set and comes up with great material (Wynn, a world-class art collector who outbids Ronald Lauder and Si Newhouse, suffers from retinal degeneration and is partly blind). Yet the author doesn't provide a coherent point of view -- or even an interesting argument. Mostly, she presents Vegas as a freak show, ''the theater of the bizarre,'' as someone describes a meeting with Wynn. The truth is that the casino mentality and aesthetic are mainstream, touted as ''economic development'' across the country. Even New York, Anthony Bourdain laments in ''Winner Takes All,'' looks increasingly ''like Las Vegas.'' The book spins along, with page after page of colorful description, but never comes together as a narrative. 
 THE PERFECT SCENT: A Year Inside the Perfume Industry in Paris and New York, by Chandler Burr. (Holt, $25.) The perfume world, Burr says, is like Hollywood: a hit perfume has the same return as a hit movie, ''and the sums lost on failures are identical.'' Also, ''the perfume industry is just as obsessed with the best-seller lineup as Hollywood is with the international box-office scores.'' In ''The Perfect Scent'' -- which originated with two articles, one in The New Yorker and one in The New York Times -- he offers an inside, Hollywood-esque account of the creation of two perfumes: Hermes's Jardin sur le Nil and Coty's Sarah Jessica Parker Lovely. Along the way, Burr is bracingly honest about his job as perfume critic for The Times: he describes being assaulted by Azzaro (''a vile smell, as if there were a chemical fire''), worn by a Charles de Gaulle Airport security officer; suffering from itchy-eye syndrome and an upright seat on a trans-Atlantic flight (''You fly strictly economy on The Times''); and navigating anonymous-source arrangements, once the province of reporters covering national security issues and now, we discover, part of the fragrance industry. He flouts some rules here -- for example, publishing a perfume formula (33 materials, including grapefruit) -- though he goes off the record when necessary (for example, discussing politics with Parker, who is, she says, ''soooo intimidated!'' by him). Yet despite the author's keen sensibility, unparalleled access and Parker's adulation, he doesn't manage to make the reader (at least this one) care about his world. 
 IN THE RING: The Trials of a Washington Lawyer, by Robert S. Bennett. (Crown, $27.50.) For decades, Bennett has had a front-row seat at the most riveting legal dramas in Washington. He has represented former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger; former President Bill Clinton; Paul Wolfowitz, when he was president of the World Bank; and Judith Miller, when she was a reporter for The New York Times. In his ''most professionally challenging'' case, he says, he acted as special counsel, appointed in 1989, for a Senate investigation into Charles Keating's Lincoln Savings and Loan, which made large contributions to politicians like John McCain before going ''belly up.'' It was described, Bennett writes, as ''the greatest financial scandal in the history of the United States.'' He recommended that McCain ''be exonerated,'' explaining he had ''stopped aggressively doing Keating's bidding.'' Bennett presumably had plenty of reasons to exonerate McCain, but they are not clearly articulated here. (Bennett has recently acted as McCain's lawyer, dealing with an article in The Times that discussed the senator's relationship with a lobbyist.) A lawyer to the end, Bennett is stingy with inside information and says little about the Keating case and others beyond what was reported or appeared in public documents, making ''In the Ring'' a less-than-satisfying read. But he is forthcoming in one area. After scoring a legal victory, he has dinner with friends and provides ''a blow-by-blow description of the matter with a grin on my face which went from ear to ear.'' In some ways, that grin characterizes the book. Check, please. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AMERICA IN SPACE: NASA's First Fifty Years. Edited by Steven J. Dick, Robert Jacobs, Constance Moore, Anthony M. Springer and Bertram Ulrich. (Abrams, $50)
 Images from the final frontier. Above, in a photo taken by a recovery aircraft, the Apollo 16 command module is seconds away from the safe splashdown that ended its lunar landing mission in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''AMERICA IN SPACE'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEPRESSION (88%); WRITERS (87%); SCANDALS (78%); WAR CRIMES (76%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); GAMING (62%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (60%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); ART COLLECTING (60%); WEIGHTLIFTING (52%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (66%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) NEVADA, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (51%)

TITLE: Black Glasses Like Clark Kent (Book)>; Winner Takes All (Book)>; The Perfect Scent (Book)>; In the Ring (Book)>; Black Glasses Like Clark Kent (Book)>; Winner Takes All (Book)>; The Perfect Scent (Book)>; In the Ring (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



755 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
That Creature in the Markets
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What Created This Monster?'' (March 23), which looked at the run-up to the current financial market mess: 
 Why should we be surprised that a socioeconomic system founded on greed, selfishness and competition, and fueled by Pollyannaism and willful blindness, might be less than optimal?
 Perhaps when the smoke clears, Americans will no longer worship at the altar of a mythical ''free market'' that is inherently unfree, skewed and subject to massive abuse. Perhaps Americans will finally choose to stop living in an economic Wild West and at last reject the boom-and-bust cycle of turbocharged hypercapitalism in favor of a more humane, livable society.
 But don't bet on it. John S. Koppel
 Bethesda, Md., March 25
 To the Editor:
 The crisis is not mysterious: The greatest risk to financial markets is investments that are essentially a form of insurance. They allow a buyer of a bond, for example, to get insurance so if the bond, or other investment, defaults, the holder can get some money. The problem is that you don't need to own the bond, or other investment, in order to insure it.
 This has led to people buying insurance as a form of gambling. Regulators need to strictly limit the purchase of these policies, called credit default swaps, to owners of the investments for which the insurance is intended. Non-owners of insured investments would have their insurance end as of the date of the new regulation, and unused premium balances would be refunded.
 This would reduce, in an orderly fashion, trillions of dollars of investment bank exposure. Joe Grossman
 Santa Cruz, Calif., March 24
 To the Editor:
 This financial monster is not the fault of Wall Street, or of some shadowy conspiracy created in basements and back rooms. It should have been fully expected from the time the deficits-don't-matter attitude took hold in Washington.
 The only reason the monster didn't arrive sooner is that the Federal Reserve was able to manage interest rates, thereby keeping American households spending and borrowing. This, however, only delayed it, as the dollar so diminished the relative size of the American economy that global corporations no longer needed to cater to the American consumer.
 Why are we now standing by idly as the government spends billions upon billions of dollars it does not have, trying to further delay the inevitable crisis? Why pass the crisis onto our children and grandchildren? Daniel Mueller
 Lagos, Nigeria, March 24
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONDS (88%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); GAMING (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008



756 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: Schooling the Artists' Republic of China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
 ON a recent lazy afternoon Wang Haiyang, a student at China's top art school, was quietly packing away some of his new oil paintings in the campus's printmaking department. He is 23, and he just had his first major art exhibition at a big Beijing gallery. 
 Many of his works sold for more than $3,000 each, he said. And he hasn't even graduated.
 ''This is one of my new works,'' he said proudly, gesturing toward a sexually provocative painting of a couple embracing. ''I'll be having another show in Singapore in March.'' 
 For better or for worse -- depending on whom you talk to -- Beijing's state-run Central Academy of Fine Arts has been transformed into a breeding ground for hot young artists and designers who are quickly snapped up by dealers in Beijing and Shanghai.
 The school is so selective that it turns away more than 90 percent of its applicants each year. Many of its faculty members are millionaires and its alumni include some of China's most successful new artists, including Liu Wei, Fang Lijun and Zhang Huan. And with the booming market for contemporary Chinese art, its students are suddenly so popular that collectors frequently show up on campus in search of the next art superstar. At the annual student exhibition the students no longer label their works only with their name and a title. They leave an e-mail address and cellphone number. 
 ''I can say we have the best students and the best faculty in China,'' said Zhu Di, the school's admissions director. ''And we give students a bright future.''
 Yet as the academy reshapes its mission and campus, its flowering relationship with the art market is stirring unease among those who feel that students should be shielded from commercial pressures.
 ''The buyers are also going to the school to look for the next Zhang Xiaogang,'' said Cheng Xindong, a dealer in Beijing, referring to an art star, one of whose paintings sold for $3.3 million at a Sotheby's sale in London in February. ''And immediately they make contact with them, even before they graduate from school, saying, 'I will buy everything from you.' '' (A similar phenomenon has been observed in recent years at hot art schools in New York and Los Angeles.)
 ''This can be a dangerous thing,'' he said. ''These young artists need time to develop.''
 Yet many counter that the school's soaring fortunes also result from the Chinese government's growing tolerance of experimental art, which was once banned. While Beijing still censors art that it deems politically offensive, including overtly critical portrayals of the ruling Communist Party, economic and market reforms have changed the way the government thinks about art and the way the Central Academy trains young artists.
 In the 1980s the school occupied a modest plot of land near Tiananmen Square in central Beijing where the faculty rigidly taught Soviet-style Realist art to about 200 students, many of whom were destined to work for the state. Today the school has a new 33-acre campus and more than 4,000 students. It offers majors in design and architecture and abundant courses in digital and video art, and some of its graduates are making millions.
 In the old days, Mr. Zhu said, students had a passion for art. ''They viewed art as a way of life,'' he said, ''and Central Academy was a talent pool. Now, as society has changed, more and more students view art as a job. Students are more practical.'' 
 The nation's other leading art schools are undergoing similar makeovers. The China Academy of Art, which has trained some of the country's most inventive artists, boasts a huge new campus in the eastern city of Hangzhou. (It was formerly known as Hangzhou Academy.) In western China the Sichuan Fine Arts Institute, which has a reputation for training great painters, received more than 64,000 applications this year for just 1,600 openings.
 But no school has as much clout as Central Academy, the only arts college directly supported by the central government in Beijing. And recently, academy administrators say, the support has been extremely generous.
 The school's new gray-brick campus, 10 miles north of Tiananmen Square, has hip cafes, attractive dining facilities, spacious classrooms and art studios, and sophisticated equipment, including high-powered computers and Autodesk video editing systems that cost as much as $200,000 apiece. The campus also has an impressive new 160,000-square-foot museum and art gallery designed by the prominent Japanese architect Arata Isozaki.
 Faculty salaries average just $700 a month, but the pay means little to most of these teachers, whose canvases might as well be painted in gold. Liu Xiaodong, a Central Academy graduate who has been on the faculty since 1994, often portrays China's disadvantaged, for example people displaced in the Three Gorges Dam area, site of one of China's biggest development projects. Yet Mr. Liu is among the country's wealthiest artists; a huge Three Gorges painting sold at auction last year for $2.7 million, a record for a contemporary Chinese artist at the time.
 Sui Jianguo, the school's dean and one of the country's most acclaimed sculptors, has seen his works sell at auction for as much as $150,000. And Zhan Wang, a professor and sculptor, is successful enough to employ more than 40 workers in his studio on the outskirts of Beijing.
 The prestige of teaching at the nation's most elite arts school remains a major draw for such artists, particularly at a time when China's art scene is flourishing. This year the Central Academy managed to lure back Xu Bing, 53, a past winner of the MacArthur Foundation's so-called genius award, from New York, where he had worked for the last 18 years.
 ''China is the most avant-garde and experimental site in the world,'' said Mr. Xu (pronounced shoe), now the school's vice president for international relations. ''Everything here is new. There's so much happening, and I want to be a part of it.''
 Mr. Xu's work was controversial in the 1980s, when China had just begun to open up to the West, and his return was a bit of a surprise to the Beijing art world. His 1988 mixed-media installation ''A Book From the Sky,'' consisting of hand-printed books and ceiling and wall scrolls, appeared to replicate ancient literary texts but in fact contained fake, unintelligible characters. Viewed as a clever critique of Chinese government propaganda, it created a sensation when it went on view at the National Art Museum in Beijing. He was also a popular teacher at the academy in 1989, when many students were complaining about government restrictions that prevented them from freely expressing themselves, in art or speech.
 When pro-democracy demonstrations broke out in Tiananmen Square that year, many students and younger faculty members from Central Academy joined the protests, even making the plastic-foam-and-papier-mache sculptures of the ''Goddess of Democracy,'' which became a symbol of the student movement.
 Mr. Xu said he doesn't worry about government interference with artists or censorship. ''The old concept about art and government being at odds has changed,'' he said. ''Now artists and the government are basically the same. All the artists and the government are both running with development.''
 Many of the changes in the Central Academy's mission grew out of the efforts to develop a new campus, which also meant rethinking the school's mission. Some faculty members were leery of the move from the old campus, which began more than five years ago with a relocation to a temporary site. 
 One professor,Sui Jianguo, made sculptures to protest the move, some of which showed deformed human figures lying in the rubble of the old campus as it was being demolished. But now he is happy with the changes at the academy. ''The whole education system had to be done in a new way, which turned out to be better,'' he said, referring to the openness to new ideas and new majors.
 Some faculty members privately lament the decline of traditional Chinese painting and disciplined training in centuries-old mediums. And some complain that today's art students are not as inspired or idealistic as those in the 1980s.
 But other teachers said that their students, largely born in the '80s, simply reflect the changes sweeping China, which have brought more wealth to the country and given it more of a global consciousness. While the enormous growth of the Central Academy has opened the way for students without a grounding in traditional mediums, they say, many are highly skilled nonetheless.
 ''I think the students are more a mix of the best and the mediocre,'' said Yu Hong, a painter who has taught at the school since the early 1990s. ''But there are some students better at drawing than when I was a student.'' 
 ''Their vision is broader,'' she said of the students over all. ''They've experienced much more.''
 Most of the faculty agrees on one major shift: The students seem less interested in politics and more concerned about their personal struggles and issues of identity, not unlike artists in the United States and Europe.
 For example Wang Haiyang, who will graduate this year, paints canvases depicting someone who looks very much like himself: short, with large, expressive eyes and what might be described as a troubled soul. He depicts his character with a physical double, in sexual poses, in violent acts and in women's clothing. ''They tell my own story, my mentality,'' he said of his works. ''The whole process of art is like a process to cure myself.''
 Raw expression is on ample display at the academy. Students, once required to paint the same figurative portrait again and again, are now encouraged to look deep within themselves and to be creative. Given that the school is no longer purely about painting and sculpture, they can find outlets in areas like photography or new-media art. Majors can eventually lead to career choices like designing video-game characters for big corporations.
 Chi Peng, who graduated in 2005 with a new-media degree, is viewed as a success story. He broke into the international art market a few years ago, at 25, with a series of photographs in which his naked image sprinted through the streets of Beijing with blurry red planes in hot pursuit.
 Today he sells his computer-enhanced photographs for as much as $10,000 apiece. A decade ago Central Academy graduates who were lucky enough to sell a painting shortly after graduation would have been delighted to earn $100. 
 Mr. Chi calls himself an ''80s boy,'' part of a new generation that grew up in a freer, more consumer-oriented society. ''It's hard to define the 80s generation,'' he said. ''Our generation is a little tender but not spoiled.''
 As for the pressures of the fast-moving art marketplace, which encourages artists to brand themselves for big collectors, he acknowledges some ambivalence. 
 Reflecting on his career ascent, he said: ''It's fast, really fast. I never could have imagined this, and I'm not sure it's a good thing for me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Middle, Sui Jianguo (in jacket), one of China's most acclaimed sculptors, with students at the academy. Bottom, Xu Bing, a MacArthur Foundation award winner, was lured back to China from New York to be part of the academy
 Students at a figure-drawing class, above, at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing. Left, Yu Hong, a faculty member, painting at her studio in Beijing's art district. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIRANDA MIMI KUO-DEEMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



757 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Why Dumps Are Gaining in Allure

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
JUST off Mount Pleasant Avenue in Dover, opposite the Rockaway Townsquare Mall, there is a place now being transformed into a point of refuge for business travelers -- after more than 30 years spent as a point of refuse.
 A 108-room hotel designed for short-term stays, offering an indoor pool, fitness center and outdoor sports court, is rising on a 10-acre parcel of what used to be the sprawling North Sussex Street landfill. 
 Such a rubbish-to-riches story is becoming increasingly common in a densely populated state with fewer and fewer large open spaces suitable for development. Right now, there are about 20 communities in New Jersey in which developers are either proposing projects involving landfill property or at work on them, according to the state Department of Environmental Protection, which oversees dump site closings and cleanup. 
 In Stafford Township, a developer spent four years cleaning up a 55-acre landfill in the Pinelands region before beginning construction there last year on a large mixed-use complex called Stafford Park. The development will ultimately include 565 units of housing for people over 55, 150 units of affordable housing, an office building, recreational facilities and shopping, according to the builder, the Walters Group.
 A first group of retail buildings is nearing completion at the site, with Costco, Target, Best Buy, Petsmart and Dick's Sporting Goods all set to open between Memorial Day and mid-August, said Ed Walters Jr., a principal with the group.
 ''This is the place where people used to come back in the '60s to throw their washing machines and old black-and-white TVs into the pit,'' he said. ''Now, they can come shop for a new flat-screen if they want to.''
 Such is already the case, of course, at Jersey Gardens, the megamall in Elizabeth, which opened in 1999 on a 166-acre site that had been the Union County landfill. Dumping ended in 1972, but the site waited decades to undergo decontamination as outlined by the environmental agency for official closure of a landfill.
 Cleanup was finally accomplished -- and developers attracted -- with the aid of almost $150 million in state and federal economic development grant money. 
 ''Landfill cleanup is very difficult; it is cumbersome, and very costly,'' said Mr. Walters, whose company removed 70,000 truckloads of material from the Stafford site before capping it with clean dirt and installing hazardous-gas monitoring devices.
 ''Typically,'' he said, ''a municipality cannot come up with the money to do the job by itself,'' he said. ''But a town also cannot reap the benefits of tax revenue on the property until it is cleaned up, and available for redevelopment.''
 This is why towns increasingly find themselves motivated to make deals with developers who will clean up a site, but only in return for permission to build projects ''denser'' than a town would otherwise agree to, he said. (''Denser'' translates as generating more demand for town services, more traffic and more pollution.)
 Developers are attracted to landfill sites, according to Mr. Walters, not only because they are large but also because they often adjoin ''solid infrastructure,'' like well-maintained roads and utility hookups.
 Landfills can also be among the few parcels where development is even being permitted in a given area, said Mark Manewitz, a Newark real estate lawyer who teaches a class in ''hazardous waste law'' at Seton Hall University's law school. ''There is a definite regulatory preference in New Jersey for brownfield and urban infill sites,'' said Mr. Manewitz, noting that antisprawl, pro-environmental restrictions put in place over the last decade have ruled out any type of construction in some spots, and strongly discouraged it in others. 
 Landfill redevelopment is generally encouraged by state regulation, Mr. Manewitz said; on the other hand, because ''the bar has been set very high'' on clean-environment standards, developers still find it challenging to produce the kinds of projects that will win approval.
 In Stafford, the Walters Group is looking to become the first commercial development in the state to use renewable energy to generate all its own electric power. Solar panels have been installed on the roofs of the first retail buildings -- and plans include a system for recycling rainwater, wind power generators, and a ''solar farm'' of panels in a field.
 ''We are committed to making the project as 'green' as possible,'' Mr. Walters said, ''because that's what the town wanted, and because it is the right thing to do.''
 Mr. Manewitz notes that environmental health standards are higher for developments that have residential components, and Mr. Walters says plans for Stafford Park will meet, or exceed, those standards.
 In Dover, Woodmont Properties is the designated redeveloper for the entire 75-acre former landfill site, not just the 10-acre hotel property, called Hilton Homewood Suites. 
 ''We were lucky in that the property was only lightly contaminated,'' said Steve Santola, explaining that dumping ceased in the 1970s and cleanup began six years ago. ''Still, we worked steadfastly with the town and D.E.P. for five years before getting full approvals.'' 
 The first project to open at the former landfill was a FedEx Ground shipping center that began operations in late 2006. A third office-industrial building is being planned, he said.
 Similar plans are taking shape in Kearny, with proposals to create a light industry center on a site that encompasses three former landfills.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW LIFE FOR DOVER LANDFILL: With open land at a premium, properties like Hilton Homewood Suites, above, are being built on reclaimed dumps. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARREN WESTURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 WOODMONT PROPERTIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (63%)

COMPANY: DICK'S SPORTING GOODS INC (57%); PETSMART INC (54%)

TICKER: DKS (NYSE) (57%); PETM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (57%); SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (57%); NAICS541940 VETERINARY SERVICES (54%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



758 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM'; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Bleakonomics

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about Ben Bernanke.

 BODY:
Since the bank runs of the 1930s, federal protection of retail depositor institutions has been a hallmark of American capitalism. The Federal Reserve, in a sweeping extension, has now extended the privilege to gilt-edged investment firms.
 Its flurry of interventions has prompted a double dose of unease. The central bank offered a lifeline to Wall Street investors who, seemingly, deserved a worse fate. And it arguably interrupted the cycle of boom, bust and renewal that leads to a durable recovery. 
 What is the true value of Bear Stearns? If the government-orchestrated takeover of Bear goes through as planned, we will never know. As with Bear, so with the billions of dollars of mortgage securities for which the central bank has suddenly become an eager customer. So, too, perhaps, with the nation's stock of residential homes -- the prices of which, instead of reverting to more realistic values, will get a boost from the Fed's repeated rounds of interest rate-cutting. 
 Government interventions always bring disruptions, but when Washington meddles in financial markets, the potential for the sort of distortion that obscures proper incentives is especially large, due to our markets' complexities. Even Robert Rubin, the Citigroup executive and former Treasury secretary, has admitted he had never heard of a type of contract responsible for major problems at Citi. 
 Bear is a far smaller company, and, it would seem, far simpler. But consider that as recently as three weeks ago, it was valued at $65 a share. Then, as it became clear that Bear faced the modern equivalent of a bank run, 
 JPMorgan Chase negotiated a merger with the figure of $10 a share in mind. Alas, at the 11th hour, Morgan's bankers realized they couldn't get a handle on what Bear owned -- or owed -- and got cold feet. Under heavy pressure from the Fed and the Treasury, a deal was struck at the price of a subway ride -- $2 a share. 
 It is safe to say that neither Jamie Dimon, Morgan's chief executive, nor Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman who pushed for the deal, know what Bear is really worth. For the record, Bear's book value per share is $84. As Meredith Whitney, who follows Wall Street for Oppenheimer, remarked, ''It's hard to get a linear progression from 84 to 2.''
 Capitalism isn't supposed to work like this, and before the advent of modern finance, it usually didn't. Market values fluctuate, but -- in the absence of fraud -- billion-dollar companies do not evaporate. Yet it's worth noting that Lehman Brothers' stock also fell by half and then recovered within a 24-hour span. Once, investors could get a read on financial firms' assets and risks from their balance sheets; those days are history. 
 Firms now do much of their business off the balance sheet. The swashbuckling Bear Stearns was a party to $2.5 trillion -- no typo -- of a derivative instrument known as a credit default swap. Such swaps are off-the-books agreements with third parties to exchange sums of cash according to a motley assortment of other credit indicators. In truth, no outsider could understand what Bear (or Citi, or Lehman) was committed to. The thought that Bear's counterparties (the firms on the other side of that $2.5 trillion) would call in their chits -- and then cancel their trades with Lehman, perhaps with Merrill Lynch and so forth -- sent Wall Street into panic mode. Had Bear collapsed, or so asserted a veteran employee, ''it would have been the end: pandemonium and global meltdown.''
 Perhaps. Or perhaps, after some bad weeks or months, Wall Street would have recovered. What is scary is the degree to which the Fed assimilated the alarmism on the Street: ''These guys are so afraid of an economic cycle,'' a hedge-fund manager remarked. And without public airing or debate, it stretched the implicit federal safety net under Wall Street.
 To question intervention is not to dispute that markets need rules. But for nearly two decades, Washington has trimmed its regulatory sails. The repeal of Glass-Steagall, which once separated banks from securities firms, and the evolution of new instruments that circumvent disclosure rules have loosened the market's moorings. Huge pools of capital have been permitted to operate virtually unregulated. Mortgages have been written to the flimsiest of credits. Swelling derivative books have made a mockery of disclosure. 
 The relaxation of oversight has implied an unholy bargain: let markets operate unfettered in good times, confident that the feds will come to the rescue in bad. In 1998, the Fed intervened to cushion the collapsing hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management; dot-com stocks immediately began their dubious ascent. Then, when the tech meltdown led to a recession and the Fed cut rates to 1 percent, adjustable-rate mortgages became as hot as the iPod. One rescue begets the next excess. 
 It is true that Bear's shareholders have suffered steep losses. But the Fed went much further than in previous episodes to calm the waters. Notably, it announced it would accept mortgage securities as collateral for loans -- enlarging its role as lender of last resort. (Wall Street jesters had it that the Fed would also be accepting ''cereal box-tops.'') Then the Fed extended a backstop line of credit to JPMorgan to tide Bear over; finally, it agreed to absorb the ugliest $30 billion of Bear's assets. 
 Government rescues are as old as private enterprise itself, but we are well beyond the days of guaranteeing loans to stodgy manufacturers a la Chrysler and Lockheed. Those cases were contained; the borders of finance are more nebulous. However pure of motive, Bernanke & Co. are underwriting overleveraged markets whose linkages, even today, are dimly understood. The formula of laissez faire in advance and intervention in the aftermath has it exactly wrong. Better that the Fed, with Congress's help if need be, ensures that regulators and markets have the tools to know what companies are worth before the trouble hits. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS TUNBJORK)
CHART: BEFORE THE FALL: Bear Stearns Stock Price, 2001-08. (Source: Bloomberg
 CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); MERGERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); MEREDITH WHITNEY (57%); JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



759 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE FUNNY PAGES SUNDAY SERIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2422 words

HEADLINE: The Lemur: Chapter 12: The Protestant Pound

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN BLACK

 BODY:
Chapter 12: The Protestant Pound
 There was nothing more Terri Taylor could give John Glass beyond the name Charles Varriker, which kept cropping up with interesting regularity. Glass still did not know why Terri came to him. Perhaps for her he was one of Dylan Riley's touchstones, all of which she had to visit in turn before she could be free to go home to Des Moines. ''New York is not my place,'' she had said, and then smiled ruefully. ''Not that I really think Des Moines is either.'' She seemed less grief-stricken at the death of Dylan Riley than just weary. She was young, and death was too much for her: too bizarre, too baffling, too unreal. He imagined her in 10 years' time, married to an insurance salesman and living with him and the kids in a frame house in a suburb on the edge of a city where the cornfields began, mile upon mile of them, stretching away in shining, wind-polished waves to the flat horizon.
 You were one of his heroes, she said to him of Riley. And someone shot Riley through the eye. 
 In the afternoon he walked over to Lexington Avenue and 40th to catch the Hampton Jitney. It was one of the not-inconsiderable advantages of being married to money that he did not need to pack when he traveled out to the house on Long Island, since everything he might need was already in place for him there, down to toothbrush and pajamas. 
 He hated this journey. It was long and tedious and noisy, and he would arrive reeking of exhaust fumes and in a temper. When he first heard of the Hampton Jitney, he pictured something out of a Frank Capra madcap comedy, a battered old bus with a bulbous front and cardboard suitcases on the roof, and a Marilyn look-alike sitting up front, adjusting her lipstick and trying not to snag her stockings on a broken seat spring. The reality was, inevitably, otherwise. He had expected sea views, at least, given the narrowness of the island, but there was only the flat, featureless road with filling stations and pizza places and the odd, undistinguished hamlet. He supposed Bridgehampton itself was handsome, in a faux-founding-fathers sort of way, and Silver Barn was certainly a fine house, set atop a low, wooded hill with a view down over pitch pine and shrub oak to an ever-shining line of distant ocean. Big Bill built the house for his third and, according to him, present wife, the globe-trotting journalist Nancy Harrison, who had probably spent altogether no more than a few weeks in the place. In the old days, Glass would sometimes come across Nancy in this or that remote corner of the world where they were both covering some small war or natural calamity, and they would have a drink together and laugh about Big Bill and his ways. The shell of the house was originally an Amish barn that Big Bill found somewhere in Pennsylvania and bought and had disassembled and carted up plank by plank to Long Island, where it was rebuilt with many additions and refinements. The wood of the walls was the silvery color of ash and polished like the handle of a spade. 
 Louise came out to meet him as he was alighting from the taxi at the colonial-style front door. She was wearing what he thought of as her Jean Seberg outfit: black pedal-pusher pants, black-and-white-striped matelot top, a short red silk scarf knotted at her throat. Her hair was tied back, and she wore no makeup. He did not think he had ever seen his wife inappropriately attired. He could imagine her on the deck of the Titanic in green wellies and a Burberry mac and head scarf. Well, he loved her once, and her elegance and self-possession were not the least of the things he loved her for. 
 She laid her fingertips on his shoulders and kissed him with feathery lightness on the cheek. ''How was the trip?''
 ''Hideous, as usual.''
 ''Billuns came out by chopper. You could have come with him.''
 ''For God's sake, Louise. The chopper!''
 She stood back and regarded him with tight-lipped, mild reproach, like a mother gazing upon an unbiddable, scalawag son. ''We can't all have the luxury of being unconventional,'' she said. ''We're not all'' -- he could see her trying to stop herself and failing -- ''ace reporters.'' 
 ''Oh, Lou, Lou,'' he said wearily, ''let's not start.''
 The spring that had taken over the city seemed not to have reached this far east yet, and the sky was an unblemished, milk-gray dome, and he could smell rain coming. ''We were about to have a drink,'' Louise said. ''I imagine you could do with one?'' Glass followed her inside. Although the house was supposed to be theirs now, his and Louise's -- her father had given it over to her, for tax reasons, mainly -- Glass always felt like a visitor here. Yet he could not help being fond of the place, in a distant sort of way. The tranquil atmosphere that reigned within its silvery, burnished walls was a legacy of the simple-living people who had hewed and planed these timbers a hundred years ago or more. 
 They walked through to the wooden veranda at the back, where there were a couple of porch swings with wheat-colored cushions and a long, low table much scarred and stamped with the marks of the many dewed-over glasses that were set down on it through the years, another form of age rings. Big Bill was there, reclining on one of the swings with his feet on the table and his ankles crossed, reading The Wall Street Journal. It always fascinated Glass that rich men actually read The Journal; what could it possibly tell them that they did not know already, and in far more intricate and dirty detail? The old man wore chinos and a pale-pink cashmere sweater, and loafers without socks. Even his ankles were tanned. ''John!'' he said and folded the newspaper. ''How was the journey?''
 ''He hates the jitney,'' Louise said.
 ''Too bad. Did you take the new one, with those roomy leather seats?''
 ''I hate that even more than the old one,'' Glass said.
 His father-in-law laughed. ''You're like all us Irish,'' he said. ''You love to suffer.''
 Manuela, the Filipina maid, appeared with a jug of fresh lemonade and three tall glasses. She set the tray down on the table and stood back, smoothing her hands down her apron and smiling at the floor. It was a standing joke in the family that Manuela was hopelessly and incurably infatuated with John Glass, who always confused her in his mind with Clara, Louise's maid in Manhattan. He asked her now to bring him a gin and tonic and she nodded mutely and fled. Louise poured lemonade for herself and her father. Glass went and leaned against the wooden rail of the veranda and lighted a cigarette. Below him the smooth lawn stretched away to a high bank of oaks that marked the boundary of the garden. From beyond and above the trees came the sounds of mingled talk and spurts of laughter and even, faintly, the tinkling of glasses. Winner the book agent owned the next house up the hill; Winner was famous for his parties. Manuela came back with Glass's drink and scampered off again.
 ''It says here,'' Big Bill said, laying a hand on the folded newspaper beside him on the seat, ''that Ulster is the next place to watch. Huge economic potential just waiting for the right boost to get it going.'' He leaned down and twisted his head to read from the page. '' 'The Protestant pound is set to give the euro a run for its money.' I like that -- the Protestant pound!''
 ''Chasing Catholic credit,'' Glass said.
 Big Bill gave a small nod and a restrained, tolerant smile. ''First they'll have to break withthe Brits,'' he said.
 Louise, sitting with her glass at the other end of the swing, laughed briefly. ''That's been tried, surely?''
 Her father shook his head. ''British tax law strangles enterprise. That's what you people in the republic'' -- he was addressing Glass -- ''that's what you understood, the need to slash corporation taxes. Now, I remember. . . . '' Glass drank his drink and gazed up at the dense wall of budding trees at the end of the lawn. A thing like a tumbrel was making its lumbering way slowly through his head; he could almost feel the wheels creaking. Above all states of mind, boredom was the one he went most in fear of. His father-in-law was recounting the oft-told tale of how, 25 years before, he called a secret meeting of Northern Ireland's leaders on the Isle of Man for the purpose of knocking their heads together and making them see sense about the future of their most misfortunate statelet. Now Glass interrupted him. ''Did Charles Varriker accompany you on that historic occasion?''
 It was Louise and not her father who registered the sharpest surprise. She stared at her husband, and for a second it seemed her lower lip trembled. ''Why, John,'' she murmured, as if he had shouted out an obscenity. Her father looked from Glass to her and back again, fumblingly, like a thrown rider struggling to climb back on his horse. His eyes were suddenly baffled and old. ''Charlie?'' he said. ''No, no, Charlie was dead by then. Why are you asking about him?'' He turned to his daughter again, querulously. ''Why is he asking about Charlie?''
 Louise had regained her equilibrium. She ignored her father's question and set her lemonade glass firmly on the table and rose. ''I must talk to Manuela about dinner,'' she said and walked away into the house, slowly, deliberately, holding her back very straight, as if to prevent herself from breaking into a run. 
 Left alone, the two men were silent for a time. Big Bill looked this way and that at the floor around his feet, as though vaguely in search of something he had dropped. Glass lighted a cigarette from the stub of the one he had just finished smoking down to the tip. He felt almost queasy, out here over these deeps and headed into darkness, knowing only how little he knew.
 ''Charlie Varriker,'' Big Bill said, in a tone at once morose and defensive, ''was one of the finest men it's been my privilege to know. He was great because he was good.'' He looked up at Glass, and there was a fierce light in his face now. ''You know what I mean by that? You got any conception of what I mean by that? Goodness is not a quality that's much valued nowadays. It's become kind of old-fashioned. Charlie was like that, Charlie was old-fashioned. He believed in honor, decency, loyalty to his friends. Just as I was about to be flayed alive he saved my financial skin, and asked no thanks for it. That was Charlie. He was good, and he was great, and I loved him.'' He stood up, wincing at some twinge, some inner pinch, and looked out across the garden with eyes from which the light had gone and which seemed glazed over and opaque now, like windowpanes on which frost has begun to form. ''Yes,'' he said, ''I loved him.''
 He turned and walked into the house, following the way his daughter had gone. Glass, still leaning on the wooden rail, smoked the rest of his cigarette, then flicked the butt out onto the grass. The faintest of faint whispering sounds had started up, and now when he looked more sharply into the air he saw that a fine rain had begun to fall.
 Louise and he ate dinner alone, waited on with catlike attentiveness by the unspeaking Manuela. They were in the Indian Room. There were Edward Curtis originals on the walls, and Hopi pots stood in rows on custom-built shelving. The rain whispered on the leaded window beside them, and a greenish light suffused this front half of the room. Louise's father was resting, she said. ''I wish you hadn't mentioned Charles Varriker. It upsets him, to have to recall all that.''
 ''Yes, that was apparent.''
 She was cutting a steamed asparagus spear into four equal lengths. ''What did he say about him -- about Charlie?''
 ''That he loved him.''
 She gave an odd little laugh. ''Loved him?'' she said. ''He hated him. And feels guilty, of course.''
 ''Why?''
 ''Why what?''
 ''Why did he hate him, and why does he feel guilty about him?'' 
 She paused, with knife and fork lifted, and looked at him. ''I suppose you think,'' she said, ''in your usual nasty-minded journalist's way, that Billuns has something to feel guilty for.''
 ''I wish to God you wouldn't call your father by that ridiculous name.'' She narrowed her eyes in gathering anger, but he went quickly on. ''You said he feels guilty. Why, if he's not guilty, in some way?''
 ''You're Irish,'' she said. ''Are you telling me it's not possible for people to feel guilt even when they're entirely blameless?''
 ''No one is ever entirely blameless.''
 ''Oh, don't give me that!'' she said, her contempt as sharp and quick as a slap across the face. ''You can do better than that.''
 ''Then tell me why he feels guilty. There must be a reason.''
 ''He feels guilty because he hated Charlie Varriker, and loved him, and because Charlie saved Mulholland Cable from disaster, and because Charlie killed himself. Don't you know anything about human beings?''
 They sat for a long moment with gazes locked and then went back to their plates. The day was ending, and the green of twilight was intensifying. Manuela came and lighted the two tall candles that stood at either end of the table and went away again. 
 ''Tell me what happened,'' Glass said to his wife, ''tell me what happened between Varriker and your father.''
 ''Nothing happened. They were partners, or at least Charlie thought they were -- my father is not the type to be a partner, as I'm sure you're aware. He ran Mulholland Cable like a department of the C.I.A., on a'' -- she smiled thinly -- ''on a need-to-know basis. Which meant no one knew anything beyond their own little area, except Billuns, who knew everything. That was the trouble, that secretiveness, that . . . arrogance. My father treated men as agents, soldiers, fighters -- killers, I suppose -- but business isn't warfare, or espionage either, whatever people say. When things started to go wrong, he didn't know how to make them right. That was why he brought in Charlie Varriker. Because Charlie was charm -- oh, pure charm. And Charlie fixed the business, mended it. And then. . . . '' She stopped and looked out at the rain and the gathering dusk.
 ''And then,'' Glass said, ''he killed himself.''
 ''Yes,'' his father-in-law said from the doorway, where he had entered unnoticed by either of them. ''That's what he did.'' He came forward, into the candlelight and the greenish glow from the window. His face was drawn and gray. ''The damned fool took my Beretta and shot himself'' -- he lifted a finger and pointed -- ''right here, through the eye.'' 
 Next week: Glass can't let go of Charles Varriker.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Last week: Dylan Riley's girlfriend, Terri Taylor, appeared at Glass's office. During their conversation, she mentioned Charles Varriker. (DRAWING BY IAN DINGMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



760 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: German Expressionism

BYLINE: By Adam Fisher

 BODY:
What New York was in the 80s, Berlin is now,'' says Nadja Vancauwenberghe, the French editor in chief of Berlin's English-language magazine, the Exberliner. ''That's the cliche.'' She shakes her head and smiles. ''The reality,'' Maurice Frank, the Exberliner's publisher, chimes in, ''is that rents here are a third of what they are in Paris or London.'' 
 The two of them are trying to explain why Berlin has emerged as the creative capital of Europe, if not the world. ''It's cool, its cheap, it's international,'' Vancauwenberghe says, ticking off the contributing factors. 
 ''But it's kind of a feedback loop at this point,'' says Frank. In other words, the people who are immigrating now are not drawn by 
 Berlin per se but rather by the Berlin of the cliche -- and they're finding it in the city's vast expat population.
 Berlin, the biggest city in continental Europe by far, has actually been losing its German population for years, but for the last five -- 
 the five years that the Exberliner has been publishing -- that loss has been more than made up for by an influx of expats. What's more, they're settling down: buying funky apartments, starting creative businesses, having precocious children. ''We're a little overrun,'' Vancauwenberghe concludes, looking out her window. For a long time, the neighborhood outside, Prenzlauer Berg, boasted a thriving international squat scene. Today the main strip is choked with baby strollers and stylish boutiques. 
 The expats who are gentrifying Prenzlauer Berg are creative types, the kind of people who don't necessarily want a standard career. This is perhaps a good thing, since the unemployment rate in Berlin is currently around 20 percent. There may not be many opportunities for regular employment, but there are plenty of good gigs. For musicians, Berlin is an ideal staging ground; its central location makes touring Europe easy and more profitable. For visual artists, it's all about the city's cultural wealth. Berlin's divided legacy means that there are twice the number of museums and art-supporting institutions than usual. Plus there is a long tradition of social tolerance here. 
 Where else would the mayor, who is openly gay, roll out an official welcome to a gathering of sadomasochist conventioneers, praising their party weekend as ''pure joie de vivre''? As Mayor Klaus Wowereit likes to say about his city: ''We are poor, but sexy.''
 According to the last census count, in 2006, there were about 13,100 Americans living here, and, invariably, they cite Berlin's bohemianism as the draw. ''I interview Americans all the time, and they'll tell you they moved here to get away from George Bush,'' says a skeptical Vancauwenberghe. ''But if you dig a little deeper, 8 times out of 10 they've come on behalf of a German boyfriend or girlfriend. Usually the relationship doesn't last, but they stay anyway, because they've fallen in love with the city.'' 
 That's certainly the profile of Marc Siegel. who was studying film at U.C.L.A. when he fell in love with a German actress named Susanne Sachsse in 1999 -- which was a surprise, since prior to that Siegel had mostly been dating men. After moving to Berlin to finish his dissertation, Siegel fell into the local theater scene, and with friends, including Daniel Hendrickson, his former boyfriend, founded a performance-art collective called Cheap. The troupe became known for its queer sensibility and eventually attracted the attention and funding of the German national children's theater, which wanted Cheap to produce a piece for kids. It used the opportunity to lure Vaginal Davis, a drag performer from Los Angeles, whom they cast as the guest star of the children's production, to Berlin. (''I had to get away from Miss Amerikkka,'' says Davis. ''Her cities are turning into malls!'') The troupe, jokes Siegel, ''has slowly become a welfare project for Americans going through withdrawal.'' 
 Toby Dammit and Jessie Evans are professional musicians from the United States who found each other in Berlin. The 41-year-old Dammit is a musician's musician, who played for many years with Iggy Pop. He moved here from New York in 2006, wanting to step off the treadmill: ''I was making money, but it doesn't matter how hard you work in New York, you end up throwing it out the window,'' says Dammit, who counts two of the most famous expats in Berlin, Rufus Wainwright and Peaches, as friends. Evans, a veteran of various ''slutty all-girl punk bands,'' moved from San Francisco in 2004 in order to reinvent herself as a chanteuse. The best thing about the place, according to the aspiring singer, is that ''you don't have to be famous to get respect as an artist.'' 
 Jean Griffin Borho, who arrived here two years ago, is not an artist but rather a patron and collector who grew up in Manhattan and ended up marrying a German man who ran a hedge fund in the city. They divorced, and Borho decided to pick up the pieces in Germany. She came to build a new life as an art consultant catering to American collectors curious about the Berlin scene, but she was also glad to say auf wiedersehen to her hometown. ''In New York, being divorced is a stigma,'' Borho claims. ''Here, no one cares.'' 
 The artist Dean Sameshima, a native of Los Angeles, came for the opening of his first Berlin show at Peres Projects last March and never really left. ''In L.A., my studio was my bedroom, but here I can afford studio space,'' he says. ''And a studio assistant.'' According to Robert Goff of Goff + Rosenthal, one of the first New York galleries to open a Berlin branch, ''the low rents have made Berlin the art-production capital of Europe. At least half of the young artists I meet in New York are seriously thinking about moving to Berlin to work.'' 
 The common thread is that everyone feels they're leading lives they could never have back home. ''Cheap in the States?'' Siegel wonders. ''There, we never even would have thought that we were the kind of people who could pull this off.'' Dammit's voice cracks with awe when he talks about the production facilities he now has at his disposal, and Evans is just happy to have been able to quit her day job. ''In San Francisco,'' she says, ''I was working at a junkyard.'' Borho, too, feels freer: ''One of the things I really love is techno music,'' says the 37-year-old. ''In New York, I'd always be one of the oldest people at a club. But here you see people in their 70s.'' 
 Berlin is undoubtedly fun. The loose liquor laws don't require bars to close until the last patron has quaffed his last drink, and some club parties can go for the entire weekend. If there is any problem with Berlin, it may be that it's too free, too wild. ''Rent is cheap, studio space is cheap, but for every artist, there's also a spot on a guest list,'' says Alex Konuk, the half-American, half-German owner of 8MM, a dive bar with an intellectual air. ''So the test here is being able to live up to the creative standards you've set for yourself.'' 
 Or not. The real charm of the city's night life lies in its goofier manifestations. Dr. Pong is a bar bunkered in a concrete Prenzlauer Berg pile, the main room lit by a single fluorescent tube, as if Dan Flavin had placed it here himself. Its light shines on a lone Ping-Pong table in the center of the room. To the beat of dance music, with a paddle in one hand and a beer in the other, patrons run around the table while attempting to keep a rally going. It's the drinking version of rundlauf, a traditional German schoolyard game. The bar's owner, Oliver Miller, is an American expat. Miller came to Berlin after graduating from Princeton's architecture school, looking to avoid the fate of his classmates, who were joining big firms in New York. ''I'm not interested in climbing the career ladder, since you'll never ever get to the top,'' he explains. ''I'm interested in taking that ladder and putting it on its side.'' In practice, that means running Dr. Pong and its fraternal twin, Kim, two popular bars that Miller sees as nothing less than conceptual architecture: ''I like the fact that the bars look like they're still under construction. If the building is still in process, getting built, that implies that process can go on inside.'' 
 The whole of Berlin's bohemia -- expat and German, arty and punk -- resonates with the same kind of attitude. Things are invariably provisional, experimental, cerebral. But what could be a Teutonic bore is leavened with a comic exuberance that is irony-free. There is no better place to enjoy this than at Monster Ronson's Ichiban Karaoke Bar in the still-raw neighborhood of Friedrichshain. Monster himself -- a k a Ron Rineck, a 32-year-old American expat decked out in a Mohawk, suit and tie -- greets you at the door and ushers your party to one of the many soundproof karaoke booths. Rineck has been in Berlin almost since the beginning. His story is one of the weirdest, but it's also emblematic of how much Berlin has changed, and how much it has stayed the same.
 Monster hails from Salt Lake City and, while visiting Berlin on the invitation of a German pen pal that he barely knew, decided to move here in 1999. He remembers those pioneer days fondly. ''I lived on my savings, $7,000, for two years,'' he says. ''And I lived like a king.'' Then, with his last remaining dollars, he bought a used karaoke machine and moved with it into his station wagon. ''Within six months,'' he recalls, ''I was getting paying gigs in squat houses all over Europe.'' The bar was a natural evolution. His biggest challenge these days is trying to live inside the law. Especially vexing is Berlin's new indoor smoking ban that went into effect on the 
 first of the year. ''If the rules get any stricter, I'm going to have to leave this city,'' he says, frowning. Suddenly he brightens: ''I hear Kiev is nice.'' 
 HOT SHOTS FOR CURATED WORK FROM BERLIN-BASED EXPAT ARTISTS, GO TO NYTIMES.COM/TMAGAZINE.
 Essentials Berlin
 LAY OF THE LAND To soak up the city's creative expat scene, start by strolling the streets of Mitte (German for ''center''), the historic middle of Berlin and home to ''museum island'' as well as the main gallery district. Then be sure to check out Prenzlauer Berg to its north and Kreuzberg to the south -- the adjoining neighborhoods where expat artists and musicians actually live, work and play.
 HOTELS There are plenty of attractive, well-priced hotels in Mitte to choose from, including the funky Arcotel Velvet (arcotel.cc; doubles from about $159); the Arte Luise Kunsthotel, with artist-decorated rooms (luise-berlin.com; doubles from $199); the Art'otel Berlin Mitte, with artwork by Georg Baselitz (artotel.de; doubles from $193); and the cool, sleek Lux 11 (lux-eleven.com; doubles from $243). In Kreuzberg, for the real boho deal you can bunk up with artists at the supercheap Die Fabrik, where rooms share baths (diefabrik.com; doubles from $86), or there's the simple but comfortable Hotel Riehmers Hofgarten (hotel-riehmers-hofgarten.de; doubles from $160).
 BARS AND CAFES Barcomi's Deli An American-style cafe that lures the art-world elite, especially for Sunday brunch. Sophienstrasse 21; 011-49-30-2859-8363; entrees $8 to $24. Dr. Pong The thinking man's postapocalyptic table-tennis bar. Eberswalder Strasse 21; no phone. 8MM A tiny bar with its own tiny music label. Schonhauser Allee 177b; 011-49-30-4050-0624. Kim Battered. Minimal. Concrete. A bar that questions what it means to be a bar. Brunnenstrasse 10; no phone. Monster Ronson's Cavernous karaoke emporium with private booths, one equipped with a stripper pole. Warschauerstrasse 34; 011-49-17-2380-9250. White Trash Fast Food Tattoo parlor, bar, restaurant and music hall packed into one giant pub-a-plex. Schonhauser Allee 6/7 and 8; 011-49-30-5034-8668.
 GALLERIES Goff + Rosenthal An impressive roster of up-and-coming international artists. Brunnenstrasse 3; 011-49-30-4373-5083. 
 Peres Projects An outpost of the Los Angeles gallery, featuring talents like Terence Koh and Assume Vivid Astro Focus. Schlesische Strasse 26; 011-49-30-6162-6962. Susanne Vielmetter Berlin Projects Showcases work by established as well as emerging artists. Holzmarktstrasse 15/18; 011-49-30-2478-1150. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Room to show: The painter Dean Sameshima moved from California to Berlin for a cheaper studio space. Berlin stories: Left: the Americans Toby Dammit and Jessie Evans jam in their apartment. Below: Alex Konuk at his club 8MM. Match point: At the bar Dr. Pong, the favorite drinking game is a lively round of table tennis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGOR HOHENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CENSUS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



761 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: We'll Always Have the Paris

BYLINE: EPICENTERS

 BODY:
Against the deadpan sameness of downtown Anchorage, a marquee featuring an Eiffel Tower and the words ''Club Paris'' in cursive neon juts out from a nondescript storefront. Anchorage is an oil boomtown that was built on the remnants of a gold and fur boomtown that was largely wiped out by an earthquake in 1964. Club Paris is that rare elderly building that survived. (Large portions of a J. C. Penney landed around it, but failed to destroy it.) 
 I wandered over to it on a late winter morning in opalescent darkness and fog, passing trees covered in a ghostly dusting of hoarfrost and two moose -- a mama and her calf -- loitering in front of City Hall. 
 By the time I arrived at the Paris's doors, it was past 11 a.m., and the sun had risen to approximately the bridge of my nose. I was sure the place must be closed: no light emanated from inside. But not only was it open, it was jumping. Drinkers filled out the curvature of the bar, and a small crush of diners stood waiting to be seated. ''Where else can you get cocktails at noon?'' bellowed my new best friend, Jennifer. ''That's what we like to do in Alaska!''
 Jennifer is Anchorage born and bred. She has that wide-eyed, guileless look crossed with a daggerlike irony that characterizes women of the grunge-era Northwest. I had met her five minutes earlier, at the cash register of the neighboring bookstore, where she'd insisted that, yes, Club Paris would be open and that she would escort me there. Comfortably seated in a Naugahyde booth, Jennifer explained to me that in Anchorage there is B.P. and A.P.: Before the Pipeline and After the Pipeline. Club Paris is one of the last holdouts of B.P.
 The walls of the Paris are mounted with ocean taxidermy -- stuffed marlin and yellowfin tuna, a giant Alaskan king crab -- but its defining feature is darkness. In other cities, restaurants are places to see and be seen; the Paris is a place to meet and not be recognized. As a local environmental economist explained it to me, ''A lot of major decisions about Alaska's natural resources are made in those booths.'' In the 1960s, the Paris was perfectly situated, by the offices of the Richfield Oil Company and those of the state legislators. Club Paris is still dimly lit, but nothing like the old days. ''You think it's dark now,'' said Sheila Moma, the sister of the current owners and Club Paris's unofficial historian. ''We changed to 25-watt bulbs from 7 watts,'' she said, laughing.
 In the '50s, a World War II veteran named Tommy Straken, who had married a French woman overseas, decided to recreate a Parisian sidewalk cafe in Alaska. He bought a former undertaker's parlor and put a canvas awning and a fake hedgerow inside. Straken sold out to the Taylor brothers; Frankie Taylor, later murdered in a gambling dispute, eventually bought it outright with a partner. In 1976 they sold it to one of the cooks and a geophysicist for the Arco oil company named Charlie Selman, still known as the man who discovered Prudhoe Bay, the largest oilfield in North America. He became sole owner of Club Paris in the 1980s, and after he passed away, his children took over.
 Selman bought the place by leveraging his Arco stock, his son Stan told me. ''My dad was making $250 a month and thought he was in Fat City. Figured he'd always have a place to eat, sleep and drink.'' Stan and his brother Scott have kept Club Paris as they inherited it: ''steak, potatoes and a stiff drink.'' Stan, an affable, low-throttle man of 50, looks more like a geometry teacher than the recovered drug addict he is. ''I'm the world's worst bartender,'' he says. ''I don't tell jokes, I don't follow sports, and I don't drink. But I pour 'em like I used to drink 'em, and that's all they care about.'' Business is brisk, thanks in part to the cruise ships that stop in Anchorage, but the Paris's mainstay remains the locals: ''Governors eat next to bikers eat next to crab fishermen.''
 The gentlemen who made Alaska Alaska by bringing its oil to market -- Stan calls them the Pioneers -- are mostly ''dead, gone, retired or moved out of state.'' For the remaining Pioneer, the Paris has a brass inlay on the bar that reads ''This Seat Reserved for Mr. JOHN GIBBONS (Unless Of Course, He Is Seeking His Virtuous Couch) -- With Love.'' 
 I asked Stan who John Gibbons is. ''Engineer, stuntman, a rancher out in Kodiak. Pretty much everything. A real Pioneer.'' Deep in his 90s, Gibbons still shows up when he can. 
 ''John Gibbons and I spent many a cold night here. One time, apropos of nothing, he said to me, 'Stan, it's a great life, if you never weaken.' '' Just then the Tom Petty song ''Free Fallin''' came on. ''Hey, hey,'' said Stan, suddenly perking up. ''I played that at my first sky dive! Crank that up!'' 
 Club Paris, 417 West Fifth Avenue, Anchorage; (907) 277-6332; clubparisrestaurant.com. Club Paris, Anchorage

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN CLARK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MAMMALS (74%); HISTORY (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



762 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: In Search of Better Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Glimmers of Progress at a Failing School'' (''Raising the Scores'' series, regional sections, March 23), about efforts to revive a failing public school in Newark, made me think of my own time spent in public schools. 
 Though I am now a sophomore at Brown University, I look back on my experience in the New York City public school system with awe and dismay.
 I am heartened by news of the new teaching strategies, tutoring and resources that are available to young students in public schools today. That should help, but students need more. 
 I remember that what frustrated me most in junior high was not the lack of adequate textbooks or after-school programs, but the fact that most of my teachers didn't expect anything of me except that I sit in the room and not disrupt the lesson -- and that I sometimes get a passing grade. 
 I am delighted to hear about the teachers who have higher expectations for their students. Eric Lee 
 Brooklyn, March 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Too often sociopolitical liberals and many parents have difficulty accepting individual responsibility. In terms of education, these folks frequently feel that the entire weight of academic performance rests on the schools and faculty.
 Whatever happened to individual student responsibility and intelligence, hard work, motivation and the competent parenting that promotes the appropriate values and social mores? 
 And whatever happened to the community social mores that connect superior academic performance with a better economic and social future?
 Even if a school provides the best learning environment, faculty and physical setting, it is still up to the student to take advantage of these resources. 
 Corrington Hwong
 Kingston, N.J., March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (87%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PARENTING (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008



763 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; QUESTIONS FOR PAUL O'NEILL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Market Leader

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As an uncommonly outspoken business leader who was appointed secretary of the Treasury in 2001, then forced out in short order after challenging President Bush's tax cuts, are you surprised by the recent flurry of depressing financial news? Not really. We've been creating this pass of events for several years. 
 Do you think it was appropriate for the Federal Reserve to lend a helping hand to Bear Stearns and save a private investment company from its own bad decisions? I would say they didn't save Bear Stearns. They saved the financial system from a panic collapse. I reject the notion that they helped Bear Stearns. Bear Stearns was destroyed. 
 No it wasn't. It was purchased by JPMorgan, which will keep it alive. They're going to keep the book alive. But the institution of Bear Stearns has been destroyed. They've gone from $158 to $2 of equity. It's wallpaper. It's not even good wallpaper. It's butcher paper. 
 It's so hard to understand how the subprime mortgage crisis has triggered a financial crisis of global proportions. If you have 10 bottles of water, and one bottle had poison in it, and you didn't know which one, you probably wouldn't drink out of any of the 10 bottles; that's basically what we've got there. 
 Instead of helping Bear Stearns, why doesn't the Fed help out homeowners? It's too late now. Going back a year ago, if the Fed and the Treasury had set out to help the institutions provide clarity and differentiate between good loans and bad loans, we wouldn't have gotten to this freeze condition.
 What do you think of James Cayne, the former Bear Stearns C.E.O., who was off playing bridge as the company was collapsing? I don't want to make a judgment. Do you like to play bridge? I like to play bridge. 
 But as the former C.E.O. of Alcoa and a current adviser to the Blackstone Group, what do you make of the general decline in corporate leadership, which seems less invested these days in the old paternal model of social responsibility than in personal greed? To me that's a really interesting question. It's become very me-oriented. Ugly, ugly. 
 How do you feel about John McCain, who claims to be a straight talker? I don't want a straight talker. I want a leader. And a straight talker is one dimension of a leader. 
 McCain recently confessed in public that his grasp of economics is limited. Yeah. That's a great place to start from, isn't it?
 Now that you're back in Pittsburgh, do you miss Washington? I still have a place there, at the Watergate. In my building, there's Condi and Bob Dole. 
 Have you seen Dick Cheney since he fired you? I have been to a few events where the vice president was there, but we both did our best to ignore each other. You know, I was a pallbearer, and he was a pallbearer, too. 
 You mean at President Ford's funeral? Yes. 
 And you didn't say hello? Nope. It was a good time to be alone together. 
 Are you ever confused with former Yankee outfielder Paul O'Neill? I once gave a speech in New York when I said that whenever I called up a four-star restaurant for a table, they'd fall all over themselves. Then they'd say, ''Will Mr. Jeter be coming with you?''
 How did you first get involved in government? I went to Washington in 1961 because I believed what Kennedy said. If you want to make a difference, come here. It sounds corny, but it's true. 
 Do you feel bitter about your service for the Bush administration? No. I'm thankful I got fired when I did, so that I didn't have to be associated with what they subsequently did.
 INTERVIEW CONDUCTED, CONDENSED AND EDITED BY DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG RUFFING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); ALCOA INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: JAMES E CAYNE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JIMMY CAYNE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



764 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Jeffrey Rosen's fine article (March 16) shows the meaninglessness of terms like ''liberal'' and ''conservative'' when used to describe Supreme Court justices. Justices David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsberg and Stephen Breyer, the so-called liberals, think corporately and conservatively rather than in any populist or liberal strain. In no way can they be compared to the liberals of the Warren and even Burger courts, Justices Brennan, Black and Douglas, and to the liberals of the World War II and F.D.R. courts. In another day these justices would be seen as centrists, if not conservative. 
 In refusing standing to large numbers of litigants to challenge corporate actions, in reducing the possibility of punitive damages, in cutting back agencies' powers and in reaching out for cases to be decided in a pro-business way, this court is reminiscent of the pre-Roosevelt courts, the Supreme Courts at the turn of the 20th century that acknowledged their commitment to as free a market as possible with as little regulation as possible. 
 Both the so-called liberals and the conservatives are pushing the court to dismantle the administrative state that the Roosevelt judges thought essential to rein in corporate wrongdoing. It is interesting that today's liberals insulate the corporations from lawsuits while the public sees, perhaps for the first time, the extent of corporate irresponsibility.
 We have not yet seen details of corporate misdeeds that contribute to America's recession. Unfortunately, many of these corporate officers will be immune from damage because of the ''liberal'' justices.
 MARTIN GARBUS
 New York
 So the Supreme Court seems poised to reduce the punitive-damage award in the Exxon Valdez case at the same time that regulatory agencies are being starved for funds or, worse, run by people whose prime concern seems to be protecting business from expensive regulations. 
 Note that the so-called ''outrageous'' sum awarded in the McDonald's coffee-scalding case had the essential effect of forcing McDonald's to change its practices so that no future customers were at risk of being scalded. For such a giant corporation, a smaller damage award (say $200,000 in punitive damages) would have had no impact.
 MICHAEL MEEROPOL
 Springfield, Mass.
 Having been suckered in by your artist's vividly suggestive depiction of Supreme Court justices cavorting with the rich and -- by implication -- their being venally influenced thereby, imagine this liberal's disappointment when the accompanying article revealed no such goings on. If you're going to promise us red meat, deliver!
 ART KANE
 Barnstable, Mass.
 The Roberts Court has clearly shifted to the right on all matters, including economics, at a time when the public appears to be moving to the left. Another possible factor, which Rosen notes, is that the current court consists of nine former judges and no former elected officials. 
 Within a few months, a Democratic president might have the opportunity to restore some balance to the court. Barack Obama, for example, could do worse than choosing Hillary Rodham Clinton to fill the first vacancy. 
 STEVE FOUGHT
 Toledo, Ohio

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); DAMAGES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID SOUTER (73%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



765 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: My Way or the Highway

 BODY:
President Bush likes to talk about not being swayed by public opinion, especially the views of Democrats. At a news conference last December, he said the most important criterion for picking a president is ''whether or not somebody's got a sound set of principles from which they will not deviate as they make decisions.'' 
 Unhappily for the country, we have learned that Mr. Bush has no idea when standing on principle becomes blind stubbornness and then destructive obsession. So it goes with his choice to run the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel, Steven Bradbury. 
 In a lower job in that office, Mr. Bradbury signed off on two secret legal memos authorizing torture in American detention camps. The first approved waterboarding, among other things. When Congress outlawed waterboarding, the other memo assured Mr. Bush that he could ignore the law.
 Mr. Bradbury is widely viewed on both sides of the aisle as such a toxic choice that he will never be confirmed. The Senate has already refused to do so twice. Still, Mr. Bush clings to this lost cause, snarling the confirmation process for hundreds of nominees and crippling parts of the federal regulatory apparatus.
 The head of the Office of Legal Counsel is one of the most important jobs in the Justice Department, charged with telling the executive branch whether it is acting legally. His advice is supposed to be based on the law, not the party line. 
 Mr. Bradbury, however, continues to defend his cynical memos, and the odious practices they blessed. In a Senate hearing, he tried to justify the way the Central Intelligence Agency does waterboarding by comparing it with the Japanese military's World War II practice of forcing prisoners to drink huge amounts of water and then jumping on their stomachs.
 Human rights experts say the Bush and Bradbury-approved method of waterboarding -- strapping down a prisoner under gushing water to make him fear drowning -- puts the United States in the company of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, the French in Algeria and the security services of the Burmese dictatorship. There is certainly no comfort in that.
 When Mr. Bush refused to withdraw the Bradbury nomination, the Senate's Democratic leaders decided to stop processing other controversial nominations. Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, twice offered to resume confirmations and compromise on candidates if Mr. Bush withdrew Mr. Bradbury -- and forwarded the names of six Democrats chosen for bipartisan panels like the Federal Election Commission. The White House refused, and Mr. Reid took to keeping the Senate in pro forma sessions during vacations to prevent Mr. Bush from making a recess appointment of Mr. Bradbury and other objectionable choices.
 At this point, according to a review by Politico.com, the election commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board and the National Labor Relations Board do not have enough members to do their jobs. Scores of federal judgeships are vacant. The Council of Economic Advisers is down to one adviser.
 This is bad for the country. Mr. Bush should withdraw Mr. Bradbury's nomination, replace him at the Justice Department with someone committed to upholding the law and take Mr. Reid's offer. The president's hyperpartisanship and my-way-or-the-highway arrogance is now close to paralyzing his own administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (68%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (67%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); WORLD WAR II (63%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (61%); PRODUCT SAFETY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OFFICE OF LEGAL COUNSEL (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALGERIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



766 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: The War on Error

BYLINE: By BARRY GEWEN. 
Barry Gewen is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
NO END IN SIGHT 
 Iraq's Descent Into Chaos. 
 By Charles Ferguson. 
 Illustrated. 641 pp. PublicAffairs. Paper, $17.95. 
 There are really two debates going on about the Iraq war, but only one of them is being heard at the present time. Was the decision to invade a mistake from the beginning? For the most part, Democrats say yes and Republicans say no. The other debate centers on the invasion's aftermath. Is the current debacle the result not of the decision to overthrow Saddam Hussein but of the inept policies that followed? Since this question suggests that success in Iraq was always a possibility, it is generally being ignored both by Democrats, who don't want to muddy their antiwar position, and by Republicans, unwilling to face up to the Bush administration's serial failings. 
 Charles Ferguson's 2007 documentary, ''No End in Sight,'' was unusual because it focused on this second question. It was a powerful and heartbreaking film. Ferguson introduced us to well-intentioned, intelligent people who took the White House at its word and went to Iraq to build a decent postwar society. He showed how they had their legs cut out from under them every step of the way by arrogant ideologues in Washington. Now he has taken the material he collected from more than 50 interviews, expanded and updated it with additional interviews, added his own interpolated commentary and a charming introduction, and produced a book also titled ''No End in Sight'' that, in its way, is as powerful as his movie, and equally heartbreaking.
 With the leisure that a book affords, a reader comes to understand why both versions of ''No End in Sight'' work so well. Ferguson is an expert interviewer -- smart, attentive, persistent. He does his homework before he sits down with a subject so that he can ask the right questions. Most important, he is no partisan (he was an ambivalent supporter of the war). Ferguson is genuinely interested in getting at the truth. He wants to know exactly what went wrong.
 Many of the top figures -- L. Paul Bremer, Donald Rumsfeld, Colin Powell, Paul Wolfowitz -- refused to talk to him, but Ferguson still managed to gather a comprehensive cross section of policy makers, bureaucrats, journalists, field operatives and foot soldiers, not to mention Iraqis. Here is A. Heather Coyne, who spent 15 months in Iraq as a civil affairs officer with the Army. Coyne, who knew Arabic, went to Iraq ''on a high because we really believed in what we were doing.'' Then she watched as everything went wrong. When she wanted to print up documents to promote a street-cleaning program, she was told: ''That's a great idea. But we don't have any ability to print certificates'' -- which summed up for her all the failures of the American effort. ''I still believe that this could have worked,'' she says. ''If you'd really had the capability, and the materials, and the relationships, and the expertise, and the trained staff, and the equipment, and everything else you needed.''
 Here, too, is Barbara Bodine, a career Foreign Service officer and former ambassador to Yemen, charged with overseeing the administration of Baghdad during the first few months of the occupation. She arrived after the looting had begun and found no personnel, no desks, no telephones. ''We didn't know who to call; we didn't know where to go. I was responsible, for example, for Baghdad City. It wasn't even clear to us where the mayoralty was.'' Bodine had originally opposed the war, but she too believes that with the right planning, the occupation could have succeeded.
 ''No End in Sight'' reads like a primer on incompetence, a catalog of bungling. ''There were 500 ways to do it wrong, and two or three ways to do it right,'' Bodine tells Ferguson. ''What we didn't understand is that we were gonna go through all 500.'' 
 Doing it wrong started with the looting. This wasn't a matter of thieves walking off with toasters and television sets. What happened in Baghdad was of an entirely different magnitude, a descent into nihilism that lasted for weeks, even months. Stores, schools, hospitals were destroyed; at least 16 of 23 government ministries were gutted. Organized criminals brought in industrial cranes to haul off parts of a power plant. Yet the instructions from Washington were not to interfere. ''Freedom's untidy,'' Rumsfeld intoned. The result was a loss of Iraqi trust that has never been regained.
 The worst mistake, however, was the disbanding of the Iraqi Army in May 2003, two months after the invasion. This was a decision made by only a few men -- specifically Bremer in his capacity as the head of the occupation authority, and his aide Walter Slocombe -- and against the advice of just about everyone with any on-the-ground knowledge of the situation. (According to Ferguson, it's unclear if President Bush approved of the idea.) Bremer and Slocombe apparently believed that the Iraqi Army had to be rendered powerless, though others explain to Ferguson that Bremer and Slocombe were confusing the army with the Republican Guard. The Guard consisted of Baath Party loyalists; the Iraqi military was a professional force that had always tried to keep its distance from the Hussein regime. When the war began, the army had faded into the countryside, leaving the Guard to do the bulk of the fighting. Once the Americans prevailed, according to Lawrence Wilkerson, Colin Powell's chief of staff, Iraqi military officers indicated their willingness to work with the occupiers, but instead they and their troops were stripped of their positions and careers. An estimated 500,000 to 800,000 men, 7 to 10 percent of the Iraqi work force, lost their jobs. And they had guns. ''More than any other single action,'' Ferguson says, the order to disband the army ''created the Iraqi insurgency.''
 And so it went -- through the appointment of the White House's political cronies rather than experienced technocrats; through the continued shortage of men and resources; through the contradictory policies and ever more desperate improvisations; through the amateurish inefficiencies and absolutely astounding levels of corruption; through ethnic cleansings and wanton killings and terrorist bombs -- down to 2007 and the start of the surge. Ferguson's final, and most timely, section moves beyond his film, and takes as its title the question everyone is left asking: ''Where Do We Go From Here?''
 Ferguson doesn't have an answer, but he supplies the kind of essential information his readers will need to come up with one. For example, most of his interviewees, American and Iraqi alike, are satisfied that the surge has worked to reduce violence in the short term, but are skeptical about the long term. The underlying structural divisions threatening to tear Iraq apart are still in place, and in some instances may have gotten worse. The Iraqi office manager for The Washington Post explains that the insurgents have lowered their level of fighting but are simply waiting for the Americans to leave. Ferguson's Kurdish bodyguard tells him the United States has actually weakened the central government by working with local Sunni militias that feel no allegiance beyond their particular tribes and neighborhoods. ''They don't care about the government. And the government, they don't have any power over what's going on.'' Another informant says Washington has been ''promoting warlordism.'' Ferguson reports the ''stunningly unanimous opinion'' among his interviewees ''that the surge is producing no lasting military or security benefit whatsoever.'' 
 And if the Americans withdraw? Most of the people Ferguson talked to believe the result would be full-scale civil war; one analyst speaks of three or four civil wars at once. Even some of those who favor withdrawal accept the likelihood of a blood bath. ''You would see the Sunnis of Baghdad certainly getting finished off quick,'' says one. Another, an American specialist on democracy and development obviously wearied by Iraq, says the mere threat of withdrawal might bring the rival factions together, but if not, ''they can have their civil war.''
 It's not that simple, however. A bloody civil war, several experts observe, probably would not be limited to Iraq. Neighboring countries would almost inevitably be drawn in, and the entire region could be engulfed in chaos. Iran would support the Shiites, while Saudi Arabia, Jordan and possibly Egypt would back the Sunnis. Turkey, meanwhile, might become more deeply enmeshed in Iraq's Kurdish areas. Juan Cole, a historian at the University of Michigan, was an influential opponent of the war who now opposes a pullout. He's not the only one. Cole points out that a proxy war between Iran and Saudi Arabia could endanger the world's oil supplies. ''Iraq is not like Vietnam, where the U.S. could withdraw precipitately and altogether and let the chips fall where they may. ... The U.S. has destabilized the cockpit of the world economy. The plane is now spiraling down.''
 Yet those urging a continued American presence are short on solutions for the long term. Partition claims few adherents, not only because most Iraqis oppose it -- Iraq's United Nations ambassador for part of 2007 says, ''Nobody in Iraq is fighting to partition the country'' -- but also because Iraq's neighbors worry how partition would be received by their own restless minorities. A regional conference including Iran and Syria has its supporters, though none who are convinced it would accomplish very much. Muddling through with an ineffectual government that wins the confidence of no one is the best that some of the interviewees can come up with, but without a coherent plan for creating a viable central authority, this is a policy that truly has ''no end in sight.'' John McCain's comment that the United States could be in Iraq for 100 years is mudling through's reductio ad absurdum.
 Many Iraqis favor a military coup. An Iraqi journalist says, ''Going back to the dictatorship definitely would help,'' and this view, Ferguson writes, ''is surprisingly popular among educated, secular Iraqis.'' It's easy to understand why. Since 1920, when it was created, the Iraqi Army has been a national, nonsectarian institution with a broad degree of popular support. Armies in the region have often played a stabilizing and modernizing role, as the next-door example of Turkey demonstrates. The real question is whether the army could be reconstituted in anything like its traditional form.
 Abetting a coup against an elected government is no one's idea of a happy ending. According to one Iraqi sympathetic to the coup suggestion, it would constitute a second American invasion, only from the inside. But as the former United Nations ambassador explains to Ferguson, ''If you are a military officer looking at this political class unable to make basic decisions ... the temptation must be great to think you can't do it any worse.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mass destruction: A scene from the 2007 Iraq war documentary ''No End in Sight.'' (PHOTOGRAPH FROM MAGNOLIA PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WRITERS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: No End in Sight (Book)>; No End in Sight (Movie)>; No End in Sight (Book)>; No End in Sight (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



767 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: How to Cast a Mortgage Lifeline?

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
THE financial markets are downright scary. And it seems unlikely that we can extricate ourselves from the current series of rolling financial crises without improving the situation in three related markets: those for houses, mortgages and securities based on mortgages. 
 In a previous column for Sunday Business, I advocated one possible approach: creating a modern version of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, or HOLC, the Depression-era entity that bought up old mortgages and issued new, more affordable ones in their stead. That idea, which hardly originated with me, stirred huge interest in both financial and political circles. (You should see my in-box.) 
 But this is one of those cases where the devil truly is in the details. How would it work in practice? Let's concentrate on six major design issues:
 STRUCTURE The original HOLC bought mortgages outright. But Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, the chairmen of the two banking committees of Congress, are now cooperating on a different way to skin the same cat.
 Their approach would use a beefed-up Federal Housing Administration to guarantee new mortgages -- issued, say, by banks -- instead of buying up old ones. The effects would be much the same: old, unaffordable mortgages would be replaced by new, affordable ones; and the government would then assume the risk of default. But in the Frank-Dodd proposal, the federal government would be a big insurer rather than a big bank. Because the approach actually has a chance of becoming law, let's adopt its structure.
 BAILOUTS The Frank-Dodd plan for a Super F.H.A. is intended to make a bad situation better. But it must not be too generous in shielding people and businesses from the consequences of their own bad decisions -- both for economic reasons (to minimize moral hazard) and for political reasons (to gain voter support). 
 So, what to do? 
 In the Frank-Dodd approach, existing mortgages would be bought below face value, forcing investors to, as they say in the trade, ''take a haircut.'' But homeowners who get nice, new mortgages to replace their nasty old ones should also be made to pay for the privilege. If not, the Super F.H.A. would be flooded with applicants. So the proposal would make homeowners relinquish part of any price appreciation on their houses for as long as their Super F.H.A. mortgages remain in effect.
 Good idea. But I'd go further, by also making beneficiaries of the plan forfeit the right to take out second mortgages or home equity loans.
 LEGAL SAFE HARBOR The Super F.H.A. would have to deal with legal complexities that no one dreamed of in the 1930s. Back then, banks held mortgages in their loan portfolios -- as some still do today. But most mortgages these days are bundled into pools, turned into marketable securities, and then sold to investors all over the world. Companies called ''mortgage servicers'' do the bookkeeping, collect the monthly payments from homeowners and forward the funds to the mortgage owners. 
 To buy selected mortgages out of these pools, the Super F.H.A. must clear a legal hurdle. Servicers are petrified of lawsuits if they sell individual mortgages -- which are, after all, owned by other people -- ''at a loss.'' So, to unfreeze the market, Congress must pass legislation shielding servicers from legal liability when (as now) market conditions depress prices.
 Providing such legal clarity is an urgent priority for Congress whether or not it passes a proposal like Frank-Dodd.
 SETTING PRICES The HOLC bought pre-existing mortgages at a discount. The Super F.H.A. would use government guarantees to induce private businesses to do so. In either case, we need prices for the old mortgages. 
 Conceptually, the answer is simple: Haircuts should reflect current market values, which are well below face values. But there is a problem: With the resale market for mortgages virtually shut down, there are hardly any market prices. 
 The draft legislation is vague on this point, perhaps necessarily so. My suggestion is that the Super F.H.A. categorize the mortgages it might refinance into, say, ''high,'' ''medium'' and ''low'' qualities and, based on its best guesses of fair market value, post initial buying prices for each type.
 Then it should adjust those prices according to whether mortgage owners rush in to sell (meaning that the prices were set too high) or stay away (meaning that the prices were set too low). Thus can the government synthesize a market until a real one re-emerges. 
 SUNSET Emergency measures must not outlast emergencies. So Mr. Frank and Mr. Dodd wisely propose that Super F.H.A. mortgages be packaged, securitized and sold back into the market as soon as conditions permit. The legislation will also end the granting of Super F.H.A. mortgages after a few years.
 ELIGIBILITY AND SCALE How large should the mop-up operation be? Mr. Frank and Mr. Dodd are thinking about one million to two million mortgages, but they understand that a larger number might be necessary to stem the downward spiral.
 Clearly, we would limit Super F.H.A. to refinancing primary residences -- no second homes or houses bought ''on spec,'' please. There should also be upper limits on both family income and house value -- no McMansions. Beyond that, the Super F.H.A. would have to develop sensible criteria to screen out applicants who can afford their current mortgages without any help and those who cannot afford even new, less onerous mortgages.
 The urgency of creating something like the HOLC or a Super F.H.A. has grown, not shrunk, since I wrote my previous column. Credit markets remain traumatized despite aggressive rate-cutting by the Federal Reserve. In dramatic actions just two weeks ago, the Fed arranged for the orderly burial of Bear Stearns and started lending money directly to securities firms. But even those bold steps calmed the waters only briefly.
 Now we have the Frank-Dodd proposal, which, while not a panacea, offers a smart approach to a knotty set of problems -- an approach that should breathe some life into the housing market, the mortgage market and the related securities markets. Their design is not flawless. But do you know of any perfect solutions? It deserves our support. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The banking committee chairmen Christopher J. Dodd, left, and Barney Frank (with Senator Charles E. Schumer, right) are cooperating on a mortgage plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



768 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: The Game's Not Over, Clinton Backers Agree

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: MUNCIE, Ind. 

 BODY:
In the height of basketball season, here in the heart of basketball country, it was perhaps inevitable that the state of the Democratic presidential race would be boiled down in championship terminology.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York stood in center court, with basketball hoops on all sides, as she offered up a sporting metaphor.
 ''You know, we are in the fourth quarter and it is a close contest. We are running up and down. We are taking shots,'' Mrs. Clinton said, speaking over a crescendo of applause. ''And in the next months, we're going to have 10 more contests, from Indiana to Pennsylvania -- all the way to Puerto Rico! Millions of people will have a chance to have their voices heard and their votes counted.'' 
 The point? This game is not over.
 As supporters of Senator Barack Obama of Illinois try gingerly -- and, lately, not so gingerly -- to plant the idea that the presidential nominating season has run its course and the time has come to declare a winner, there is at least one obstacle. The Democratic voters of Indiana and beyond, who have been little more than bystanders through four decades of presidential primaries, seem to be in no hurry for this campaign to end. 
 At least not before their ballots are cast. 
 And that has become a central argument for Mrs. Clinton as she implores voters to lend her candidacy a lifeline. In rally after rally in Indiana and North Carolina last week, voters booed and jeered when she mentioned that some Democratic leaders and unfriendly pundits believe she should leave the race.
 ''There are some people who are saying, you know, we really ought to end this primary, we just ought to shut it down,'' Mrs. Clinton told a few thousand people who had gathered in Mishawaka, where a giant ''Hoosiers for Hillary'' sign served as a backdrop.
 ''No!'' boomed the crowd.
 If hopes are diminishing among some supporters of Mrs. Clinton -- privately, many concede they do not see a clear mathematical path to winning the nomination -- that word has yet to reach the voters here who filled gymnasium after gymnasium on her two-day trip through Indiana. The mood of the rallies and town meetings was far from the grim picture portrayed in the endless whirl of political chatter on cable television.
 ''I know a little bit about comebacks,'' Mrs. Clinton said with a knowing grin. ''I know what it's like to be counted down and counted out. But I also know there is nothing that will keep us down if we are determined to keep on.''
 So the senator sought to steer the conversation back to the economy and away from prognostications about her candidacy, which was welcome news to voters, many of whom said they were furious at suggestions that Mrs. Clinton should bow out. 
 Roberta Weaver drove 90 miles to Fort Wayne from Kokomo and waited outside in 40-degree weather for nearly five hours to catch a glimpse of Mrs. Clinton as she walked into a diner for a discussion about the economy. When Ms. Weaver heard a reporter asking a few folks in the crowd about the outlook for the senator's candidacy, she jumped in with a scolding.
 ''No way, no way should she get out of the race,'' said Ms. Weaver, a 70-year-old retired nurse. ''I think people are deceiving themselves if they think that she can't win this. She's stronger and her support is much stronger than what many people think.''
 Not long ago, in the days leading up to the primaries in Wisconsin, Ohio and Texas, it was hardly uncommon to come across Democrats attending Clinton campaign events out of what they described as a sense of nostalgia, with the unspoken worry that time could be running out to see her. 
 But with the contest in Pennsylvania more than three weeks away, followed two weeks later by Indiana and North Carolina, much of that skeptical talk has been replaced by an enthusiasm for voters to have their voices heard in the historic campaign, whether they support Mrs. Clinton or Mr. Obama.
 ''It's been 40 years since we've had a chance to vote for president,'' said Kathy Brutchen, 53, who recalls her parents taking her to see Robert F. Kennedy pass through the city of Muncie in the 1968 campaign. She brought her daughter to see Mrs. Clinton here on Friday evening.
 Even though the Indiana primary is not until May 6, the urgency of the moment was apparent as Mrs. Clinton pointedly asked Ms. Brutchen and others in the crowd for their help, saying she would be ''so fortunate and honored to be your next president.''
 ''I'm asking you to please consider supporting me,'' Mrs. Clinton said, speaking slowly and deliberately. ''I need you to talk to your friends and your neighbors.''
 By next week, Mrs. Clinton will have 20 campaign offices open across Indiana, a state that has emerged as a crucial battleground in the eyes of her contributors and advisers. As she wrapped up her visit to the state on Saturday, she pledged to come back soon.
 ''She is very confident and has got her sense of humor,'' said Joe Kernan, a former Indiana governor who was traveling with Mrs. Clinton for part of her trip. ''Those are good things to have during a campaign like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, at Ben Davis High School in Indianapolis. ''I know a little bit about comebacks,'' she said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); BASKETBALL (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%) INDIANA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



769 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Help Homeowners Gains Steam

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Federal housing agencies are moving closer to a possible plan to help homeowners caught between rising interest rates on their mortgages and falling home prices that preclude selling or refinancing to pay off those debts, officials said Saturday.
 The plan centers on so-called negative equity certificates. For such borrowers -- whose debts exceed the resale value of their homes but who also had enough income to afford their payments before their mortgages reset to higher adjustable rates -- government housing regulators would offer lenders a chance to refinance a new, smaller, federally insured mortgage. In exchange, a lender would receive a negative equity certificate entitling the holder to a payback if real estate recovers and the home is sold for a price greater than the original mortgage. 
 The Office of Thrift Supervision proposed such a system, and Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, endorsed the idea on March 4. Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the financial services committee, has made a similar proposal. On Friday, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. appeared to allude to such a plan in a speech to the United States Chamber of Commerce, and The Washington Post reported Saturday that the idea had gained some momentum. 
 Treasury officials, however, caution that the details and feasibility of the plan remain uncertain, in part because lenders have not shown much appetite for the idea. It is also unclear how many borrowers would qualify. In his speech, Mr. Paulson made clear that any such program would address only a small fraction of the millions of homes facing foreclosures because it would be open only to those who could afford their initial payments but had faced rising adjustable rates as well as plunging home values.
 ''Let me also emphasize that any homeowner who can afford his mortgage payment but chooses to walk away from an underwater property is simply a speculator,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''Washington cannot create any new mortgage program to induce these speculators to continue to own these houses, unless someone else foots the bill.''
 ''The people who we seek to help are those who want to keep their homes but can't afford the monthly payment'' because of an adjustable rate mortgage reset, he continued. ''If they also have negative equity in their homes, refinancing becomes almost impossible, and so workouts become even more important.''
 An estimated nine million households own a home worth less than its mortgage debt, in part because at the peak of the housing boom lenders often required little or no down payment -- in other words, a mortgage for 100 percent of the purchase price, putting the home under water as soon as prices declined. There was no down payment on 29 percent of the mortgages originated in 2007, Mr. Paulson said in his speech. 
 Many if not most of those nine million households can afford to keep making their payments to avoid foreclosure, something homeowners typically fight to avoid even when their house is worth less than their mortgage. 
 But the problem is that some lenders also extended mortgages with interest payments stretching the limits of the borrowers' ability to pay. Such easy money helped pump up housing prices during the boom. But now the hangover is deepening the price declines as the resulting wave of foreclosures threatens to glut the market. 
 Bill Ruberry, a spokesman for the Office of Thrift Supervision, said the idea for the negative equity certificates was to encourage lenders to work out new terms by providing some ''share in the upside'' from a price recovery. Lenders could participate voluntarily, and the program would apply only to borrowers with the ability to meet the new payments.
 ''We anticipate a market would develop for these negative equity certificates,'' Mr. Ruberry said.
 He said officials of the Office of Thrift Supervision were meeting with officials of other federal agencies as well as lenders and investors about the idea ''to see what support we can get for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (77%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARNEY FRANK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



770 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Reluctant Eye Over Wall St.

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The Bush administration is proposing the broadest overhaul of Wall Street regulation since the Great Depression. But the plan, to be unveiled on Monday, has its genesis in a yearlong effort to limit Washington's role in the market.
 And that DNA is unmistakably evident in the fine print.
 Although the proposal would impose the first regulation of hedge funds and private equity funds, that oversight would have a light touch, enabling the government to do little beyond collecting information -- except in times of crisis.
 The regulatory umbrella created in the 1930s would grow wider, with power concentrated in fewer agencies. But that authority would be limited, doing virtually nothing to regulate the many new financial products whose unwise use has been a culprit in the current financial crisis. 
 The plan hands vast new authority to the Federal Reserve, essentially formalizing what has been an improvised process over the last three weeks. But some fear that the central bank's role in creating the current mess will undercut its ability to clean it up.
 All the checks and balances in the plan reflect the mindset of its architect, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who came to Washington after a long career on Wall Street. He has worried that any effort to substantially tighten regulation could hamper the ability of American markets to compete with foreign rivals, though he has intervened in the mortgage crisis to try to persuade banks to offer concessions to some troubled borrowers
 As the full effect of the credit crisis becomes clearer, the political stakes are growing.
 Mr. Paulson is clearly taking a stand against critics who support even stricter regulations, while rejecting any notion that the crisis in financial markets or the collapse of Bear Stearns can be laid at the administration's doorstep. In a draft of a speech to be delivered Monday, he declares: ''I do not believe it is fair or accurate to blame our regulatory structure for the current turmoil.''
 And while he argues that the current regulatory structure is outdated, Mr. Paulson's vision for the future echoes the traditional Republican view that new rules and agencies are no substitute for market discipline.
 The proposals would, for the first time, create a set of federal regulators with authority over all players in the financial system, be they banks, insurance companies or other entities like hedge funds and private equity funds, which now operate virtually without regulation.
 But that authority would be limited. The Fed, which Mr. Paulson proposes to make the ''market stability regulator,'' would be given explicit authority to limit the risks financial institutions take regarding ''certain asset classes'' and to ''address liquidity and funding issues.''
 Broadly speaking, those are the problems that have cost the nation's largest banks and brokerage firms tens of billions of dollars. They took risks trading an alphabet soup of unregulated products cooked up by financial engineers, like C.D.O.'s (collateralized debt obligations) and C.D.S.'s (credit default swaps).
 But the Fed would not be able to act simply because one bank or brokerage house was taking excessive risk. Instead, the Fed's ''authority to require correction actions should be limited to instances where overall financial market stability was threatened,'' the proposal states.
 The Fed has long had great prestige in Washington, but in the current crisis it has seen its decisions challenged from both the left and the right.
 ''The Fed oversaw this meltdown,'' said Michael Greenberger, a law professor at the University of Maryland who was a senior official of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission during the Clinton administration. ''This is the equivalent of the builders of the Maginot line giving lessons on defense.''
 The Fed's former chairman, Alan Greenspan, for years praised the growth in the derivatives market as a boon for market stability, and resisted calls to use the Fed's power to increase regulation of the mortgage market.
 On the right, some were appalled by the decision by federal regulators to intervene to keep Bear Stearns from collapsing. ''I want market discipline, too, but you don't do it by empowering the Fed,'' said Representative Scott Garrett of New Jersey, a Republican on the House Financial Services Committee. ''We're trying to get transparency for the market from an institution that's not transparent in its own workings.''
 Under the Treasury proposal, while the Fed would have some authority to stop financial institutions from taking on too much risk through the use of exotic financial instruments, it appears that little would be done to limit the flow of such new products.
 The Treasury says that it and other federal regulators still believe a principle it enunciated a year ago, ''that market discipline is the most effective tool to limit systemic risk.''
 That discipline was largely lacking when the problems were being created, but now has returned with a vengeance, leaving banks with securities of dubious value that cannot be sold at any price that even approaches what they were thought to be worth only months ago.
 ''Turning over all this responsibility to the Fed doesn't address the derivatives problem,'' Mr. Greenberger said.
 Other former regulators saw at least some promise in the proposal, which would create two other super-regulators in addition to the Fed.
 One of the new agencies, which the Treasury calls a ''prudential financial regulator,'' would focus on the safety of financial institutions that have explicit government guarantees. The other watchdog would oversee business conduct to protect public investors and customers of financial firms.
 Democrats reacted with some praise. ''It's a recognition, maybe a reluctant one, that you have to enhance regulation,'' said Rep. Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services committee.
 Arthur Levitt, a former chairman of the S.E.C., said he was ''intrigued by the idea of an agency for investor protection that would extend across all products, principally because I am frustrated by the inability of other agencies to provide that protection.'' He pointed to the failure of regulators to halt abuses by mortgage brokers and by a reduced willingness of the S.E.C. to bring enforcement cases in some areas.
 But Mr. Levitt said he was concerned by proposals to expand the authority of self-regulatory organizations, like stock exchanges. As an interim step, Mr. Paulson proposed allowing those organizations to change their rules without seeking explicit approval from regulators. 
 ''They have acted in their own self interest too often to allow them to get out from under the oversight process,'' Mr. Levitt said.
 Mr. Frank also praised Mr. Paulson for including protection of consumers in the plan. ''That's a big step forward and something Greenspan wouldn't do,'' he said.
 Mr. Paulson, in the speech to be delivered Monday, says the long-term proposals he is making should not be acted upon while the current market stresses remain severe. Instead, he says, no final decisions should be made ''this month or even this year.'' Next year, of course, a new president will take office.
 ''This is the beginning of the process,'' Mr. Levitt said. ''This will become an issue in the presidential campaign, and I think that is probably good.''
 Some industry representatives embraced the plan, reflecting its laissez-faire origins. ''The Treasury's report is an important step in reconciling America's confusing and often overlapping regulatory regimes,'' Robert G. Pickel, chief executive of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, said on Saturday. ''Hopefully this report can help streamline and improve the competitiveness of America's financial services sector.''
 But while the long-term proposals are unlikely to become law quickly, the Treasury hopes to impose some changes on its own, and to get Congress to approve others this year. Some of those changes seem designed to increase the Treasury's ability to influence other regulators.
 During the Great Depression, Congress forced the separation of the investment banking and commercial banking industries and set up different regulatory systems for each, which seemed appropriate since the government guaranteed deposits in commercial banks but provided no similar benefit for investment banks.
 The wall between the two businesses eroded and was eventually taken down by Congress in the 1990s, and the Bear Stearns case indicates that, at least for some investment banks, the risk of a default is too great to allow.
 But the Paulson proposal would not give regulators new powers over other investment banks. The proposed prudential regulator would not have authority, since there is no explicit guarantee of its liabilities, and the Fed would be expected to step in to limit risk taking only if the stability of the financial system were threatened.
 The proposal also calls for an early merger of the S.E.C. and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, reflecting the reality that the markets and products they regulate often overlap or compete with one another. The Treasury wants to assure a combined agency would adopt the gentler regulatory approach of the C.F.T.C., which has exempted from regulation many derivatives products that are traded over the counter. The plan also would eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, which now oversees savings institutions.
 The report drew cautious praise from the hedge fund industry. ''The general tone is positive, and moving toward a consolidated regulatory structure is reasonable,'' said Richard Baker, a former senior Republican member of the House Financial Services committee who is now chief executive of the Managed Funds Association.
 Christopher Cox, the chairman of the S.E.C., also backed the proposal. ''The need for better integration of financial services regulation in the United States has never been clearer,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. is taking a stand against supporters of stricter regulations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INSURANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



771 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: Traveling Circus

BYLINE: By ANNA LOUIE SUSSMAN

 BODY:
Now that bureaux de change are doing brisk business in rubles and yuan, it's clear there's a new world order in travel. ''People from everywhere are going everywhere,'' says Ian Bremmer, the president of the consulting firm Eurasia Group. And with new wealth come fresh stereotypes -- remember the Ugly American? Bremmer ascribes cliches to ''pure economics. It's who's spending the most money and annoying the locals.'' Here, a pop-anthropological look at the travel universe now. ANNA LOUIE SUSSMAN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMERICANS: They're the new . . . Germans, spurred by good will, guilt or God to places off the beaten track. They're heading to . . . Africa, Southeast Asia, China and the Middle East. They're traveling because . . . They want to make a difference -- hammering together latrines, teaching English and displaying their newfound modesty. And bringing back . . . Adopted children, colorful crafts from local women's collectives. Their mascots are . . . Angelina Jolie and Madonna (wait -- is she still American?)
BRITISH: They're the new . . . Americans, whose once-dominant dollar used to buy them everything, including a reputation. They're heading to . . . Latvia, Dubai and New York, where everything is half-off, year-round. They're traveling because . . . They want to shop. Period. And bringing back . . . Designer clothes and iPods, Eastern European girlfriends. Their mascots are . . . The Spice Girls, flush from a recent world tour and ready to drop their pence
CHINESE: They're the new . . . Japanese, whose strong economy pushed them out into the world, in herds, laden with cameras. They're heading to . . . Paris, along with nearby destinations like Macau, Singapore and Vietnam. They're traveling because . . . The borders are open, and their assets have already infiltrated the world so what are they waiting for? And bringing back . . . Fond memories of long nights at the craps table.Their mascot is . . . Pansy Ho, the co-owner of the MGM Grand Macau and a budding airline mogul
GULF ARABS: They're the new . . .British, who once roamed the earth looking for places to relax that stiff upper lip. They're heading to . . . The Alps, Dubai, Australia -- just not the States, thanks to visa hurdles. They're traveling because . . . They need to escape the heat and social conservatism and find somewhere to spend all their oil and gas money. And bringing back . . . Investors looking to open up the luxury-brand outposts of which Gulf Arabs have grown so fond. Their mascot is . . . The owner of Villa Moda, Sheikh Majed Al-Sabah of Kuwait, a k a the Sheikh of Chic
RUSSIANS: They're the new. . Gulf Arabs. With huge fortunes in the hands of a well-connected few, they're out to flaunt every ruble. They're heading to . . . London, St. Moritz, Positano, acquiring czar-worthy hotel bills. They're traveling because . . . Finally, they can. And bringing back . . . Keys to villas and yachts, property deeds in Montenegro (for protecting assets), even sports teams. Their mascot is . . . Roman Abramovich, the financier extraordinaire and owner of London's Chelsea Football Club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP: CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: GETTY (5)
ASSOCIATED PRESS
GETTY (2)
GETTY/WIREIMAGE
 GETTY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: MADONNA (70%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (59%); ANGELINA JOLIE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); ALPS (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACAO (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%); LATVIA (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



772 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A Governor Who Knows His Way Around the Island

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND politicians are greeting David A. Paterson's ascent as the new governor as if he were a hometown guy.
 In a real way, he is.
 Although Mr. Paterson lives in Manhattan and represented Harlem in the State Senate before becoming lieutenant governor, he grew up on the Island.
 The Paterson family lived on Carolina Street in Hempstead, alongside the Southern State Parkway. The governor is a graduate of Hempstead public schools and Hofstra University's law school. His father, Basil A. Paterson, is a longtime member of Meyer, Suozzi, English & Klein, the powerhouse law firm in Garden City. 
 Now that Mr. Paterson is governor, his deep roots on Long Island bode well for critical issues here, local politicians say.
 ''David Paterson doesn't need a political tour guide for Long Island, because he really gets this region and is connected to it,'' said Robert P. Zimmerman, a national Democratic committeeman from Great Neck. The Democratic Party chairman in Nassau, Jay S. Jacobs, said, ''We got lucky.''
 The abrupt regime change in Albany two weeks ago, when Eliot Spitzer resigned after disclosures that he patronized high-priced call girls, has politicians assessing what impact Mr. Paterson will have.
 The Island's overriding concerns are school aid, property taxes, housing, the economy, transportation and the environment. The new governor also faces thorny proposals to build the Broadwater liquefied natural gas terminal in Long Island Sound, modernize generating plants for the Long Island Power Authority and install a third track on the Long Island Rail Road's main line.
 Right now, Mr. Paterson is in the throes of drafting a state budget, assembling his administration and coping with reactions to his disclosure of marital infidelities. Aides said he is too busy to expound on his intentions for Long Island, but that has not stopped the discussion.
 ''I think he's going to be very good for Long Island,'' said Richard M. Kessel, a Democrat and former chairman of the power authority. ''I think you're going to find him a lot more responsive than former Governor Spitzer was, because of his Long Island heritage.''
 Even the Republican Party's state chairman, Joseph N. Mondello of Nassau, had kind words: ''Hopefully, David Paterson, a man who is familiar with the problems of Long Island, will be able to respond to the needs of our people. I'm optimistic.''
 Whatever Mr. Paterson's plans for Long Island, its 2.8 million residents pose a big voting bloc he will covet if he runs for another term.
 ''He's smart enough to know Long Island is going to be pivotal,'' said Arthur J. Kremer, a Democrat and former state legislator. The once-storied Republican strongholds of Nassau and Suffolk have come under Democratic control in recent years. A former Suffolk County executive, Patrick G. Halpin, a Democrat, said that Mr. Paterson ''understands he can't be New York City-centric.''
 Not everyone assumes that Mr. Paterson will be automatically good for the Island. 
 ''David grew up on Long Island, but things are different now than they were then, so there's considerable doubt whether he understands the problems of today,'' said Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, a leading business and civic organization.
 For example, the Hempstead schools that benefited Mr. Paterson are now among the state's most troubled districts. And instead of the Island's flourishing young population of yore, today's young people are fleeing because of high housing costs and scarce jobs, Mr. Crosson said.
 An initial disappointment in the fledgling Paterson administration, Mr. Crosson said, was its failure to retain Patrick J. Foye, a Long Islander who quit as co-chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. ''That has made a lot of people on Long Island unhappy,'' Mr. Crosson said.
 Governor Paterson could help make amends by coming up with a ''coherent economic development plan, with technology,'' for the Island and the rest of the state, he said. ''He's going to have to prove himself to Long Island and upstate.'' 
 Even with good intentions, Mr. Paterson faces hurdles, especially with the economy sliding. 
 ''Is there any room in the budget'' for new programs when it has a multibillion-dollar gap? asked Eric Lane, a Hofstra law professor who taught Mr. Paterson and served as counsel to the State Senate Democrats.
 But some saw immediate positive signs. The Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi -- whose father, Joseph A. Suozzi, belongs to the same law firm as Mr. Paterson's father -- said he was already impressed with the governor. Mr. Suozzi, who heads a Spitzer-appointed commission on property tax burdens, cited that group's recent hearing in Rochester. 
 ''It was only David Paterson's third day in office as governor, with the budget and everything else going on, and he came to Rochester and spoke,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''He gave a fantastic speech, which showed not only knowledge of the issue but a lot of empathy for what people are suffering. The governor was taking this as a personal priority, recognizing this as a statewide problem. That's a very good sign.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (64%)

COMPANY: MEYER SUOZZI ENGLISH & KLEIN PC (83%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



773 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Offensive Revives Debate For Campaigns

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and LARRY ROHTER; Steve Friess and Michael Powell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The heavy fighting that broke out last week as Iraqi security forces tried to oust Shiite militias from Basra is reverberating on the presidential campaign trail and posing new challenges and opportunities to the candidates, particularly Senator John McCain. 
 The fierce fighting -- and the threat that it could undo a long-term truce that has greatly helped to reduce the level of violence in Iraq -- thrust the war back into the headlines and the public consciousness just as it had been receding behind a tide of economic concerns. And it raised anew a host of politically charged questions about whether the current strategy is succeeding, how capable the Iraqis are of defending themselves and what the potential impact would be of any American troop withdrawals. 
 Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has made the Iraq war a centerpiece of his campaign; he rode to success in the primary season partly on his early advocacy of the troop buildup. The battle in Basra broke out as he returned from a trip to Iraq this month, proclaiming that violence there was down and that the troop escalation was working. 
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, said he was encouraged that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government had sent its troops to reclaim Basra from the Shiite militias. ''I think it's a sign of the strength of his government,'' Mr. McCain said Friday at a stop in Las Vegas. ''I think it's going to be a tough fight. We know that these militias are well entrenched there. I hope they will succeed and succeed quickly.''
 The Democrats, who are calling for phased troop withdrawals, are beginning to point to the fighting in Basra as evidence that the American troop buildup has failed to provide stability and political reconciliation -- particularly if the fighting leads one militia, the Mahdi Army, to pull out of its cease-fire; that could lead to a new spate of sectarian violence across the country. Some are saying the fighting strengthens their case for troop withdrawals. 
 But the McCain campaign is hoping to turn that argument on its head, asserting that the battle in Basra shows just how dangerous the situation on the ground in Iraq is. It says this bolsters Mr. McCain's argument that a premature withdrawal of American troops would lead to more widespread violence, instability and perhaps even genocide. 
 ''I think that what this demonstrates is that there are very powerful forces that still remain that do not want to see the success of the central government and that would relish the prospect of the American withdrawal so that they could try to fight or shoot their way into power,'' said Randy Scheunemann, the McCain campaign's senior foreign policy adviser. ''Would you rather have the Maliki government in control, or the Iranian-backed special groups in control, or Al Qaeda in control?''
 But at a news conference on Saturday in Johnstown, Pa., Senator Barack Obama of Illinois suggested the news from Basra highlighted his contention that American military involvement could not solve the deep-seated problems facing Iraq.
 ''I don't want to suggest I've absorbed all of the facts,'' about the situation in Basra, Mr. Obama said. But, he continued, what he had heard ''appears consistent with my general analysis. The presence of our troops and their excellence has resulted in some reduction in violence. It has not resolved the underlying tensions that exist in Iraq.''
 Dennis B. Ross, a Middle East peace negotiator in the administrations of the first President Bush and President Bill Clinton, said the violence posed risks for candidates in both parties. 
 ''Senator McCain is more vulnerable than the Democrats, because this is a reminder of how messy the situation remains in Iraq,'' Mr. Ross said. ''This is an interesting reminder of how much remains to be done. With the main focus having been on the military side, the surge has not created enough of a self-sustaining political fabric.''
 Campaign officials in both parties cautioned that the situation in Iraq appeared fluid and that preliminary reports of what was going on there were incomplete. And much depends on the eventual outcome in Basra. It could end up showing that the Iraqi government is capable of taking control back from the militias. Or it could show the Iraqis are incapable of defending themselves, shattering a fragile cease-fire in the process. 
 Either way, officials in both parties agreed that the fighting in Basra -- coming two weeks before Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, is scheduled to appear on Capitol Hill -- was likely to intensify the debate over the war again.
 Mr. Obama's opponent for the Democratic nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, did not directly address the Basra situation on Saturday and instead kept the focus on economic issues. But aides to both candidates said the fighting there raised troubling questions about whether the troop buildup was making the country more stable. And given the trouble that the Iraqi security forces have had in ousting the militias, and their need for American air support, they said it also called into question the fighting capabilities of the Iraqi military. 
 Denis McDonough, a senior foreign policy adviser to Mr. Obama, said the situation in Basra ''does raise a handful of concerns as it relates to the surge and, more importantly, about the prospect of political reconciliation.'' 
 Lee Feinstein, the national security director for the Clinton campaign, said: ''The sectarian fighting is continuing and apparently now intensifying with some 150,000 U.S. troops on the ground. The Bush-Cheney-McCain policy is to say we can't bring our troops home when violence appears to be down, and that we can't remove our troops when violence is increasing as we have seen this week. 
 ''The only way to get the Iraqis to accept responsibility for their future is by no longer extending them an indefinite blank check, intensifying diplomacy and withdrawing our troops swiftly, responsibly and safely.''
 Mrs. Clinton has recently been arguing that the troop buildup had failed to achieve its goals, as she did at a campaign event Tuesday in Pennsylvania. ''President Bush seems to want to keep as many people as possible in Iraq,'' she said. ''It's a clear admission that the surge has failed to accomplish its goals.''
 Mr. Ross, who wrote ''Statecraft and How to Restore America's Standing in the World,'' said the Basra fighting posed hard questions not only for Mr. McCain but also for the Democrats. ''It is a little sobering to say you can withdraw on a fixed timetable,'' he said. 
 Aaron Miller, a former State Department official who was an adviser to six secretaries of state on Arab-Israeli peace negotiations and the author of ''The Much Too Promised Land: America's Elusive Search for Arab-Israeli Peace,'' said the political ramifications of the latest fighting would depend on the success of the effort by the Iraqi Army in Basra to root out insurgents. 
 ''If this comes out well and represents a really consequential development, it will play to McCain's strength, his argument that the surge is working and that training is a long-term effort,'' he said. ''If it comes out in a gray area, and things start to unravel elsewhere, then it is going to validate the Democratic argument that we don't know the half of what is going on. It's very much a question of what the ending is and whether it is clear cut.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain greeting a local official on March 16 in Haditha, Iraq. He says recent Iraqi efforts are a sign of strength.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CPL. SHAWN COOLMAN/DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Senator Barack Obama on Friday in Greensburg, Pa. His aides say fighting in Basra raises concerns about strategy in Iraq.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



774 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HOME FRONT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Imaginary Hors d'Oeuvres, But Real Job Skills

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JAMARIS VALLADARES of Brooklyn has never had a formal job interview. ''I've only had part-time, minimum-wage jobs, selling and as a cashier,'' she said.
 Nevertheless, Ms. Valladares, 22, recently planned a four-day conference in Puerto Rico for a company based in New York. With a budget of $65,000, she arranged the transportation, lodging, meals, snacks and meeting locations for the 30 participants.
 The conference was imaginary, part of a job training exercise offered by Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow, a nonprofit group in Brooklyn. The group, with sites in Sunset Park and Bushwick, offers programs that help the unemployed develop or improve computer and other skills needed for office jobs, from file clerk to office manager. 
 Ms. Valladares used spreadsheets as she planned the conference, which she brought in under budget, at $58,492.50. Her itemization left nothing to the imagination; it detailed transportation costs and the price of every service she had secured at the conference site in San Juan. She described every dish and snack she had ordered for every meal and break, and even allocated the precise total for hors d'oeuvres at a reception.
 Ms. Valladares said she returned to Brooklyn in September after dropping out of college and moving to North Carolina, where her husband was serving in the Marine Corps. At Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow, she enrolled in a program for people who have lost jobs, are seeking to rejoin the work force after having left it voluntarily or, like her, have been delayed in entering full-time employment. 
 Another of the group's programs is aimed at people 17 to 21 who are neither working nor in school. Besides computer training, this program offers business math, business English and, for those who did not complete high school, preparation for earning an equivalency diploma.
 One current participant, Alia Stewart, 17, of Brooklyn, said she had dropped out of high school because ''I wasn't doing well.'' She spoke of ''family issues'' and said, ''I didn't enjoy the high school environment.'' 
 The group's $3.5 million annual budget comes largely from foundations and state and city agencies, said Randy Peers, its executive director. 
 Its programs, all free to trainees, also include adult literacy courses and paid internships with employers. 
 One of the group's programs is financed entirely by Ikea, the furniture chain. The company, soon to open a store in Red Hook, has contracted with Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow to run a job training and employment services program for area residents. The training is for jobs with employers generally, not just with Ikea, Mr. Peers said.
 In the program for 17-to-21-year-olds, he said, a total of 1,160 people were enrolled during the five years ended last June 30, and nearly 1,000 completed the five-month course. Seventy-one percent of the graduates found jobs, mostly through the program, at an average starting pay of $9 an hour, he said, and 58 percent of those hired were still working a year later, for the original employer or for another.
 The program for older adults has no fixed duration, but the average time is eight weeks, Mr. Peers said. Of the 230 people who enrolled in this program over the five years, he said, 83 percent obtained jobs averaging $10.35 an hour, and 68 percent of those hired were working a year later.
 Ms. Stewart and Ms. Valladares hope to join the positive statistics -- and, they said, achieve more. Ms. Stewart said that after obtaining a high school equivalency diploma and finding an office job, ''I want to go to college to study the business of fashion.''
 Ms. Valladares hopes to become a psychologist one day. But first, she said, ''I hope to get a 9-to-5 stable job and go back to college.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamaris Valladares in class at Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow, in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY TRAINING (75%); FAMILY (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (67%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); FURNITURE STORES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008



775 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 8055 words

HEADLINE: A Case Of the Blues

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WALLACE-WELLS. 
Benjamin Wallace-Wells writes about national affairs for Rolling Stone. His last article for the magazine was a profile of David Axelrod, Barack Obama's chief campaign strategist.

 BODY:
The Oklahoma Congressman Tom Cole is 58 years old, but he has never been famous before, and after this year, he will most likely never be famous again. Even this kind of fame, brief and slight, is uncomfortable on him. Cole is a party man, a lifelong Republican consultant, campaign worker and politician whose career, like that of a typical European Social Democrat, has recognized only a fluid and fungible line between political operative and elected official. It sometimes seems an accident he's in Congress at all. He is tall and slightly formal, and slightly awkward; people who meet him casually describe him as cordial or gentlemanly. The Republican Party, in its current uncertainty, might have chosen an ideologue to fill Cole's post or, as is its habit, a money man. Its choice of Cole, an operative, was the establishment insisting that its own learned habits were enough to save itself. ''Right now, with where we are,'' Ken Mehlman, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, told me, ''Tom Cole is the perfect leader.'' 
Cole is a year into his term as chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, the group charged with managing the party's simultaneous campaigns for 435 seats in Congress, and this role has made him responsible for rebuilding the Republican Party from the ground up, and for mounting a defense of the political map. All campaign operatives are, to some extent, geographers, and the map of the United States, endlessly studied, is the object of their pieties and contains their own compulsions. Every operative has his own map, weighted by income, by ethnicity, by the practiced habits of ideology, but each believes his map is determinative and that elections do not contain surprises but more precise revelations of the map, of tendencies buried deep. 
 Early in December, I met Cole for the first time in the N.R.C.C.'s offices on Capitol Hill, in a building it shares with the R.N.C. The building has small cubbyholes like telephone booths, from which representatives make fund-raising calls, and a sleek phone bank in the basement that is populated, election nights, by the party's interns and operatives. His own office walls are crammed with so many tribal curios -- Cole, who is part Chickasaw, is the only registered member of a Native American tribe in Congress -- that it can seem as if they are being offered for sale. 
 In 2006, the Democrats won so many elections in what was traditionally Republican territory that Cole, as his party's chief Congressional recruiter, now finds himself in the unlikely position of flying into what used to be considered safe conservative districts and trying to goad Republican businessmen and state senators into running for Congress. His progress, he told me, has been mixed. He mentioned a black Republican prosecutor from Indiana named Curtis Hill, from a district that the party lost in 2006. Cole said he thought the seat was a more natural fit for his party than for the Democrats, and he wanted badly to convince Hill to run. Hill happened to be a founding-fathers buff, and so Cole flew him to Washington to meet with the White House political team and be briefed on how he could win, to look out at the monuments from his window seat and imagine himself as part of history. ''Very intoxicating,'' Hill told me afterward. But he was not convinced. Cole then flew out to Indiana to press Hill to run, telling him that the Democratic congressman, Joe Donnelly, could be depicted as a tool of Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, and out of touch with the values of the district. Hill thought about it hard. But he had five kids at home, and he also didn't quite buy Cole's description of Donnelly, whom Hill considered ''a relatively conservative Democrat. I don't think he's done anything in his record that's irritated anyone.'' Hill turned the offer down. Cole said he had become convinced that Hill's political gifts were so great that he would be running for senator or governor soon. ''God, he's just great,'' Cole told me wistfully. ''He's just a star.''
 After the 2004 elections, Karl Rove began to talk with growing conviction about a permanent majority for the Republican Party. That majority lasted two more years. It would have been difficult then to imagine a more stunning reversal. The Democrats now control both houses of Congress and suddenly enjoy an advantage in campaign funds that, given the G.O.P.'s intimacy with big business and the recent supremacy of Republican fund-raising, would have been unimaginable just three years ago. Cole maintains that the 2006 election was an event of equal scale and significance to the Republican victory in 1994 -- ''in many ways, it's a flip.'' Republican operatives now worry that the social conservatism that helped seal Rove's majorities might create for them a deficit that lasts a generation, that the party's position on social issues like gay marriage may permanently alienate younger, more moderate voters. 
 Going into the 2008 elections, Cole faces a daunting list of challenges. To date, 29 of his party's representatives in Congress have retired, an unusually large number, leaving open politically marginal seats that incumbents might have held but which will be more difficult for challengers to defend -- Deborah Pryce's seat in Columbus, Ohio; Mike Ferguson's in central New Jersey; Heather Wilson's around Albuquerque; Thomas M. Reynolds's in Buffalo. Reynolds, Cole's predecessor at the N.R.C.C., just narrowly held his seat in 2006. Rick Renzi, a Republican congressman from Arizona, was indicted last month on federal corruption charges, putting what was another safe Republican seat in play. These vacancies mean that in a year when, by historical standards, his party would be expected to win back seats, Cole will have to defend many more seats than he will be able to attack (only six Democratic incumbents have announced they are leaving office). His committee has approximately $5 million on hand, roughly one-eighth the amount of cash on hand as its Democratic counterpart, which at latest count had $38 million. Worse still, the National Republican Congressional Committee recently discovered, during an internal audit, accounting fraud so extensive that it had to call in the F.B.I., which is now investigating embezzlement by the committee's former treasurer. Many conservative activists have become so dissatisfied with the party's heresies, particularly on immigration and government spending, that as Cole's staff took over, the committee's fund-raising pleas were being ignored and, on at least one occasion, returned in an envelope stuffed with feces.
 After 2006, most observers thought that those results suggested a onetime event, a so-called wave election, and predicted that come 2008, Republicans would reclaim some of those seats, the usual correction after a wave like this passes. But now, seven months before the 2008 election, that does not seem likely. The influential, independent Cook Political Report recently concluded that 12 of the 14 districts most vulnerable to change parties in this election will belong to Republicans, suggesting that Cole's party is likely to end up in an even deeper hole.
 The situation has provoked an uncommon modesty in the Republican establishment. ''Most of us can't wait to get to 2010,'' Dan Mattoon, a lobbyist and former deputy chairman of the N.R.C.C. told me. John Ensign, Cole's counterpart in the Senate, has made a point of acknowledging, publicly, that he doesn't expect to win back seats this year. The Republican consultant Rich Bond told me, ''Tom was dealt an almost unwinnable hand.'' Yet Cole has been almost strangely sunny about his prospects. ''This isn't an ideologically conservative country, and maybe some of us overreached in thinking that it was, and have been corrected for that,'' he told me in January. ''But I believe that it is still a center-right country, and I think this election will show that.'' 
 Like the other Republican operatives of his generation, Cole spent his career building the map that eventually elected George Bush, with the South, the Plains and mountain West and the rural parts of the Midwest committing firmly to their party. For the past decade, the politics of the country has been defined by this map -- a conservative heartland and two bracketlike liberal coasts. As Cole has begun to study the landscape of the 2008 elections, his hopes -- and those of the Republican Party -- rest on the insistence that this map remains essentially unchanged. ''They have 61 Democrats in seats that voted for Bush in 2004, and we only have 8 Republicans in seats that voted for Kerry,'' Cole told me. ''Those numbers work in our favor. Not all of them are going to flip back. But these are Republican districts, and in a presidential year a lot of them are going to return to the way they usually vote.'' He recalled a list of vulnerable Democrats his staff had put together and noted that many of them represented reliably conservative parts of the country. ''In most districts they're going to be asking voters to split their tickets, and that's a tough ask,'' Cole said. ''Does anyone really believe Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama is going to carry those two seats in Kansas, or seats in Georgia? The old ideological divisions are there, and they won't go away.'' 
 In the summer of 2006, the Democratic pollster Joel Benenson was conducting surveys for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in the Eighth Congressional District of Indiana, working-class, conservative towns around Evansville and Terre Haute. Brad Ellsworth, a conservative Democratic sheriff who took pains to distance himself from the antiwar camp, had just been picked as the party's nominee against a six-term Republican incumbent named John Hostettler, a former power-plant engineer.
 As the survey returns came in, Benenson noticed that one group was far more receptive to the Democratic position than he had expected: working-class evangelical voters, the lower-to-middle-income whites in small cities and small towns who had defected to the Republican Party under Reagan and not returned. When Benenson ran focus groups, he found that they weren't voting because of the war or against corporate influence -- Hostettler didn't take money from lobbyists. The opportunity lay in very basic economic issues, like Hostettler's votes against raising the minimum wage. ''Every election is different,'' Benenson told me. ''There are elections where evangelicals will vote on social issues. The difference in 2006 was that we finally caught up on fiscal responsibility and taxes. Those were supposed to be big parts of the Republican brand, and they've surrendered them on multiple levels.''
 Ellsworth, running on those issues, would eventually win the race. Lower-middle-class evangelical voters are a small segment of the national electorate -- less than 10 percent. But for Benenson they seemed to augur a broader recalculation, the Reagan Democrats subsuming social concerns to economic ones, the populist sentiment in the country sliding from the Republicans to the Democrats and even firmly conservative districts suddenly thrown open to competition. In 2006, the Democrats won in those kinds of blue-collar districts not just in Terre Haute but also in the Appalachian Mountains of western North Carolina, in the old industrial towns in western Pennsylvania and in upstate New York. ''The map,'' Benenson told me, ''has already changed.''
 For decades, the campaign committees were obscure, partisan chambers, organizations designed largely to protect incumbents. The media that covered the groups were mostly limited to two newsletter publishers, Charlie Cook (The Cook Political Report) and Stuart Rothenberg (The Rothenberg Political Report), and when the parties had weak candidates, they just avoided introducing them to Cook and Rothenberg. Part of the reason for this prolonged obscurity was the static map; the advantages of incumbency had become so powerful that almost all Congressional districts were presumed safe, so that for most of the '90s and the first term of the Bush administration, the parties were realistically competing for only 30 or 35 seats each election cycle. It did not take a strategic genius to manage a static map. ''Many of our members assumed,'' Spencer Abraham, a former energy secretary and Republican senator from Michigan, told me, ''that the majority would not change hands in their lifetime.'' 
 When the Democratic congressman and former Clinton administration adviser Rahm Emanuel took over the Democratic campaign committee for the 2006 election cycle, the character of the committees, and the level of scrutiny they were accorded, began to change. Emanuel's plan was to expand the map, recruiting Democratic challengers in dozens of formerly written-off districts to force the Republican Party to defend seats in places where they had not expected to. As the Democrats used small-dollar donations, largely raised online, to erase the vast money advantage Republicans had recently enjoyed, it became clear, Cole says, that the G.O.P. was operating from ''a deficient model.'' 
 By the early fall of 2006, the number of competitive seats had more than doubled, and this more complex field required a higher level of coordination and sophistication from the campaign committees than had generally existed before. The candidates Emanuel ended up running were, in many cases, rough around the edges, and some were inexperienced activists whom the committee had unsuccessfully tried to beat earlier in the Democratic primaries. They ran as politically diverse outsiders, not primarily against the war but against the Republican ''culture of corruption'' in Congress, and their ideological span was broad enough that the Democratic majority in the House now includes both the lefty singer-songwriter John Hall, who got his political start at anti-nuke rallies, and Heath Shuler, the North Carolina Democrat, ''who is,'' Cole says, with a certain envy, ''to the right of Genghis Khan.'' 
 By Election Day, the playing field -- the competitive seats for which the Republican campaign committee bought advertising -- was more than 80 seats, about two and a half times the usual. The committee, taken by surprise, went at least $18 million into debt trying to defend seats it once assumed it would hold without great effort. Their majority still collapsed. The Democrats won back 30 seats from the Republicans, and with them the House. Cole is good-humored and bipartisan by inclination, and enough of a friend to Emanuel that he was the lone Republican invited to speak at a charity roast of Rahm, to which he contributed a very slow-building joke about a cross-country trip the Democrat took with a minister, a rabbi and a Hindu priest. But when Cole campaigned for Republican campaign committee chairman, it was the final acknowledgement that the nature of the Congressional campaign had changed: it was now impossible to view the composition of Congress as the consequence of 435 individual races. The campaigns had been centralized, he says, and what was needed was a single strategist to run it all. ''You don't have to like George Patton,'' Cole said, ''to know you need George Patton.'' 
 Still, many within the Democratic Party believe that the gains of the 2006 election weren't merely the result of good strategy. They believe that the map was undergoing a fundamental shift. Perhaps the most-studied Democratic detailer of the map's evolution is a consultant named Mark Gersh, whose analysis of the 2006 election results has become the Democratic Party's official version. ''Most people think of politics as changing from the grass roots up,'' Gersh says. ''It doesn't. It changes from the top, from presidential races on down.'' 
 For Gersh, the modern political map has sustained two basic changes in the past 30 years. The first, beginning with Ronald Reagan's election in 1980 but only culminating with the 1994 election of Newt Gingrich's insurgents, was the slow, top-down conversion of socially conservative blue-collar voters, in the South and elsewhere, from Democratic partisans to Republican ones. In 2006, Gersh saw the culmination of the second big shift. ''The biggest thing that happened in 2006 was the final movement of upper-income, well-educated, largely suburban voters to the Democrats, which started in 1992,'' he says. The largest concentrations of districts that flipped were in the suburbs and the Northeast. This, Gersh says, was the equal and opposite reaction to the earlier movement toward the Republicans and to some degree a product of the social conservatism demanded by the Republican majority. When I spoke to Emanuel earlier this month, he told me: ''I believe there's a suburban populism now. The Republican Party has abandoned any economic, cultural or social connection to those districts.''
 In 2008, when the key Congressional battlegrounds are mostly not in the Northeast but in places like Albuquerque, Huntsville, Ala., and Canton, Ohio, the question is slightly different: Can Democratic candidates retain and expand their advantage in historically conservative parts of the country that have not been accustomed to voting for them?
 What has been startling is how thorough some of the shifts have begun to look. Cole had said his first targets would be areas that were long-term Republican districts that flipped to the Democrats in the 2006 election. But few of those districts now seem likely to flip back to Cole's party. In some districts that had been held by a Republican for more than a decade before 2006 -- Ohio's 18th, New York's 19th -- Republicans haven't even been able to find a credible challenger. In others with long-running Republican histories -- Florida's 22nd, Iowa's First, North Carolina's 11th -- Cole's committee acknowledged early on that these races were long shots. It is possible to interpret this as a recruiting failure by Cole's committee. But it's also possible to see the void in these districts as an acknowledgement by up-and-coming Republican politicians that something has changed, and that this land has been swallowed by the tide.
 In their intimacy with the numbers, many Republican operatives now worry that crucial segments of the electorate are slipping away from them. Republicans had traditionally won the votes of independents; in 2006, they lost them by 18 percent. Hispanic voters, who gave the Democrats less than 60 percent of their votes in 2004, cast more than 70 percent of their votes for Democrats in 2006. Suburban voters, long a Republican constituency, favored Democrats in 2006 for the first time since 1992. And Democrats won their largest share of voters under 30 in the modern era, a number particularly troubling for some Republicans, since it seems to indicate the preferences of an entire generation. 
 ''What is concerning is that we lost ground in every one of the highest-growth demographics,'' said Mehlman, the former R.N.C. chairman and Bush political adviser, who is now a lawyer at the lobbying firm Akin Gump. 
 For operatives like Cole, focused on expanding the party's appeal, the conservative movement had become too demanding: its aggressive rhetoric on some social issues alienated young voters, its swagger on immigration hardened Hispanic voters against Republicans and its emphasis on tax cuts for the wealthy made it difficult for the party to appeal to populist voters. Buffeted by those movement passions, the great thing at the center of it all -- the party -- began to fray. ''If there are Republicans out there who think that 2006 was a year that could be changed by a few votes in a few districts, they need to wake up,'' Mehlman told me. ''It was a rejection.''
 Cole is by training a historian, even though in his professional career he has been a consultant, a pollster, a state senator and a congressman; he has worked as the executive director of the N.R.C.C. and as chief of staff at the R.N.C.; and he even put in a brief, and perhaps ill-advised, shift as a political adviser for the Chamber of Commerce just before he ran for Congress. He inclines toward the long view. Cole says that he believes in the fixed nature of the two-party system. But he also acknowledges that there have been moments when partisan geographies have changed for the long term. I asked Cole what he believed the legacy of 2006 would turn out to be. ''Right now, we don't know,'' he said. ''That's exactly what the 2008 election is going to prove.'' 
 The day that President Bush delivered the State of the Union in January, Cole met in his offices at the National Republican Congressional Committee with a favored Congressional challenger from a Midwestern swing district to be briefed on the progress of the campaign and to give what advice he could -- on what consulting firms to hire, how to plan for the cadence of the campaign. (As a condition of allowing this meeting to be observed, the candidate asked not to be named.) Cole began to talk through Republican figures who might be brought in to help raise cash. If McCain were the nominee, Cole and the candidate agreed, donors would turn out for a fund-raiser he headlined. Cole mentioned Bush, but everyone thought that would be a mistake. ''I think this cycle he and the vice president are going to be doing a lot of fund-raisers in the South and the Plains,'' he said, and everyone guffawed in agreement. Even for an audience of Republican donors, in politically contested parts of the country, the president provokes complicated feelings. On another occasion Cole said to me, ''I love the president, but his appeal isn't universal.'' 
 It is difficult to watch Cole these days, or the Republican apparatus generally, and not be aware of the distancing from the Bush presidency that is taking place. Cole says that his task is to help the Republicans move from something that looks roughly like Bush's party to something that looks mostly like John McCain's. The places where Cole must hold the Republican line are largely moderate districts, where the president's conservatism is a divisive thing and where McCain's maverick reputation might permit the party to pull the trick of running against Washington even while controlling the White House. ''I don't need the nominee to win; I just need him to be competitive enough that we can win behind him in the places that should be ours,'' Cole said. ''I need him to be Gerald Ford.'' 
 Throughout the winter, Cole watched the presidential primaries with apprehension. The problem was the gap in intensity between the party's bases; in many states twice as many Democrats were turning out to vote as Republicans. Last month, Obama's campaign passed around a memo listing six states won by Bush in 2004 where Obama's votes in the primary beat the votes of the top two Republicans combined: Colorado, Georgia, Iowa, Missouri, North Dakota and South Carolina. The map looked as if it were beginning to cave in on itself. 
 But surprisingly, the ground began to shift after the March 4 primaries, and with it Cole's disposition. It wasn't that conservative voters had discovered any new zeal for McCain. But the Republicans had a nominee, and the acclaim that comes with it, and the Democrats did not. ''Who would've thought two months ago that we'd essentially be over by Super Tuesday, and the Democrats would be in the middle of a death fight between Clinton and Obama?'' Cole told me earlier this month.
 Cole has been giving that race a lot of thought. ''I happen to think Hillary Clinton is a stronger candidate in the end,'' he told me. ''You couldn't raise money against Obama right away like you could with Clinton, that's true, and so maybe by the time you were able to raise money it wouldn't matter. But he's ideologically well to the left of Hillary Clinton, for all his rhetorical gifts, and I also think he's got a national-security deficit. I think she's a plausible commander in chief, and I don't think he is. It may not matter. But those two areas are where we would fight the election, and with McCain, I think we contrast with him very well.'' 
 On the Congressional level, Cole says that he believes that this election will be contested across a map just about as broad as the last one, with at least 75 seats in play, and that McCain contributes to opening up that map. ''Let's break it down,'' he said. ''Obviously in the Southwest, he's going to make us much stronger. In Arizona, we have a couple of opportunities where he'll help us, but also in New Mexico. Frankly, while some people have problems with his stand on immigration, he probably keeps Hispanics in play at the presidential level in a way no one else could. He really helps us in the Northeast and upper Midwest -- Illinois and Pennsylvania. Then, anywhere where there's a veterans population or military bases. Think of Jim Marshall's seat in Georgia. That's a huge advantage for us. Florida, big military presence. We have a couple of opportunities in Texas. But I think the biggest thing is he's seen as an authentic American hero, someone who can take on and shake up Washington.''
 Cole's strategy is not complicated, but it does contain an essential difficulty: at a moment when Washington is deeply unpopular, he wants his candidates to run as insurgents, but voters still identify Republicans with what they don't like about Washington -- they prefer a generic Democratic Congressional candidate by a margin of 49 percent to 35 percent, according to a March 7-10 NBC/Wall Street Journal poll; in an ABC/Washington Post poll released in early February, they preferred Democrats to Republicans on seven out of seven issues. Cole's basic challenge is to try to flip the popular perception of the capital so that more voters identify Washington with the Democrats than with the Republicans. He says he wants to use his party's resources to define Nancy Pelosi as a national character, the face of a Democratic Congress that is once again too liberal for the country. (''Those three little words -- 'San Francisco liberal' -- are just magic for fund-raising,'' one of Cole's staff members told me.) He has tried, when possible, to choose candidates whose biographies can reinforce the anti-Washington theme, even if they have no real political experience. And he is counting on McCain's emergence to permit the party to distance its image from that of Bush. Cole might have come up with a grand and unifying policy vision for his insurgents to run on. But Cole is not an ideologue. And with Rove and the party's other grand strategists having abandoned the field -- five of the six members of the Republican Congressional leadership in 2006 have now retired -- Cole is now turning to practical answers, to process, and deferring to the politically moderate geography of the battleground areas. ''I still think most Americans want their government to be smaller, not bigger, and their taxes to be lower, not higher,'' Cole says. ''And I still think most Democrats in office think that America is not a force for good in the world, and I think most voters have a different perspective.'' 
 In the euphoria of 2006, Cole believes, Democrats made promises that were too grand to deliver: ''Nancy Pelosi said, Put the Democrats in Congress and we'll get you out of Iraq, and they didn't do it. They ran against the culture of corruption, and they're absolutely killing us in raising money from PACs. The president would have signed any bill the Democrats would have handed him on immigration, and I think they could have got S-Chip [the State Children's Health Insurance Program] done too. But they had the same problem with George Bush we had with Bill Clinton. They hated him too much to get it done.''
 Part of the problem, for a Republican Party that wants to get back to basics, is that George Bush and Karl Rove's party was not theirs alone but a pretty precise articulation of decades of post-'60s Republican strategy. ''You go back to the Reagan years, and even before that, and we always had a three-legged stool: anti-Communism, anti-abortion and tax and spend,'' Dan Mattoon, the Republican lobbyist and former deputy chairman of Cole's committee, told me. ''The first leg dropped off when the Berlin Wall fell, and after 9/11 we've tried to do the same thing with terrorism, but it's not as strong. The second leg, tax and spend, was pretty strong until George Bush. Then we had just one leg of the stool, which was social issues, and I think that you look at the makeup of the younger generation and there's more of a libertarian view on social issues.'' Cole says that the party's rhetoric on issues like gay marriage has cast Republicans as too reactionary for many suburban districts. ''My problem on social issues is the tone -- sometimes we have been too shrill, and that has alienated voters who might otherwise have joined us,'' he told me. The challenge, then, is finding a new generation of candidates who aren't.
 If Cole has a final argument, a closer to convince his preferred candidates that they should run for office, it is the briefing delivered by the consultants John Morgan Sr. and John Morgan Jr. They cover two conservative generations: John Morgan Jr. is a former executive director of Gopac, and his father worked in the Reagan White House's political shop. Late in September, Cole brought a millionaire businessman named Steve Greenberg, a moderate Republican from the Chicago suburbs, into Washington to woo him -- to meet the House minority leader, John Boehner, to visit the White House and to meet the Morgans. Cole wanted Greenberg to run against a Democrat named Melissa Bean, who had managed to hang on to a Republican-leaning seat, Illinois's Eighth District, through two competitive elections. Greenberg was so attractive to national Republican recruiters that he was weighing two bids for his candidacy, one from Cole and one to challenge Senator Dick Durbin. ''He's undoubtedly a top recruit,'' Cole said. 
 The Morgans are geographic essentialists; they are working on an encyclopedia of American elections that will trace in minute detail the results of every election since the Constitutional Convention. They began to show Greenberg slides detailing the ways each township in Bean's district had voted over time. They had broken the township down by religion, income and ethnicity -- Americans of German descent are solid Republican voters in the Chicago suburbs, controlling for income and hometown, while Polish- and Italian-Americans are iffier propositions. Through all of this a few townships in the center of the district kept flipping their colors, from blue to red and back again. ''There are five townships here, and that's the whole race,'' Morgan Sr. said. ''Those are the only votes that flip in this district, and they decide every election.'' 
 Cole's staff didn't know all that much about Greenberg ideologically, but then they don't make it their business to know. I once asked Cole about the positions his candidates were taking on immigration and the war. ''I don't think I've ever asked a candidate what he believes,'' he said. ''We're just looking for winning candidates.'' But one of the things they did know, and do make it their business to know, was geography. Greenberg was from one of the towns that tended to flip back and forth, the wealthy suburb of Long Grove. If he could simply prevail upon his neighbors to vote for him, Greenberg would have gone a long way toward winning back the seat. ''There's a head start already,'' Morgan Sr. said. 
 Steve Greenberg was something pretty close to Cole's ideal candidate, the embodiment of recruits that Cole is searching for everywhere. Usually the N.R.C.C.'s political staff finds recruits by asking local Republican officials who would be a viable general-election candidate, a process that turns up a consensus surprisingly often, but whose consensus often settles on a local elected official. This time, Cole's team was trying to recruit candidates who could plausibly run as political outsiders, which they believed Greenberg could. He was rich enough to finance his own campaign -- a big advantage for a national campaign committee that has almost no money. He came from the swing sector of the district. ''You always want to ask, who can a candidate bring that's extra, beyond what the Republican Party can deliver on its own -- with J. C. Watts it was African-Americans and evangelicals; with me it was Indians,'' Cole said. With Greenberg, he thought it might be people like the candidate himself, rich moderate Republicans who might have been leery of the party's evangelical tilt. A month later, Greenberg declined the overtures from the senatorial recruiters. He would challenge Melissa Bean. 
 The Republican map still has some startling gaps. Some of the party's top targets, like Representatives Zack Space in Ohio and John Hall in New York, still face no credible challenger. And in many swing districts -- like Pennsylvania's 10th and Florida's 16th -- Republicans have only a muddled field and contested primaries to offer. But given all the problems that the national Republican Party has had, Cole has done reasonably well. ''In all honesty,'' Stuart Rothenberg told me in February, ''I'm surprised this time around that Cole's been able to get candidates as good as he has.'' 
 The perversity of Cole's position is that the consummate party man has arrived at precisely the moment when the party is eroding beneath him. The problem is the money. 
 The Democratic Congressional committee's eight-to-one fund-raising advantage over its Republican counterpart has been understood by Republican operatives in the stiff terms of a morality play. Though Republicans traditionally built their fund-raising on small donations from grass-roots conservatives, the party began to pay less attention to that group after 1994, when its position in the majority meant contributions from K Street, which came more easily and in larger chunks. After 2006, the party found that its financial support from both groups had eroded -- the base because it was disappointed by a party that had ignored it, and the lobbyists because the Democrats were now in control of Congress. ''Corporations and PACs go where the power is,'' the Republican strategist Scott Reed told me. But mostly the party's operatives blame themselves for not realizing this. (Republican operatives say that the Republican National Committee's small-donor list, diligently tended to, is the reason it, alone among the party's committees, has been able to outraise the Democrat's national committee.) When I asked the House minority leader John Boehner how he assessed the committee's fund-raising so far, he told me: ''It stinks. No other way to put it.'' 
 At the beginning, some in Boehner's circle seemed leery of Cole. The Oklahoman did not have a national reputation as a fund-raiser, and yet he was taking over a committee more than $18 million in debt. And at a moment when Boehner was trying to rebuild the party's reputation on small-government principles (Boehner told me that the matter of the Republican abuse of earmarks, in which congressmen secure funds for favored projects in their districts, is ''the most poignant'' reason voters rejected Republicans), Cole was openly skeptical of this approach. ''Earmarks are not the reason that we lost the election,'' Cole told me. ''I can't find a single seat we lost because of them.''
 In September, Boehner demanded that Cole fire his chief of staff, Pete Kirkham, as a public price to pay for the committee's money troubles; Cole responded by threatening to resign, and ultimately, Kirkham was allowed to keep his job. The financial stresses persisted. In November, Cole asked the party's leadership to give him a seat on the appropriations committee, making the case that he would be able to raise more money from corporations if he were in a position to reward them for their generosity. The Democrats published gleeful press releases (''Is Tom Cole carrying on the Abramoff-DeLay legacy?'') and Cole eventually withdrew his name from contention, with Boehner's staff, in a final indignity, leaking early word of the departure to the media. Things got bleaker in January, when Cole's staff discovered accounting irregularities so troubling that they turned their books over to the F.B.I. (In mid-March, the National Republican Congressional Committee announced that its former treasurer, Chris Ward, may have funneled several hundred thousand dollars into his personal and business accounts; the F.B.I. is investigating.) 
 In a normal year, the committee would be able to shape the field by buying an avalanche of ads in the weeks before an election in those districts where it hoped to challenge Democrats and by the same mechanism decide which of its own incumbents were under enough threat that they needed defending. But in this election cycle, that money is not flowing to the N.R.C.C. When I visited the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in February, the group's executive director, Brian Wolff, told me that he considered his central competition not to be Cole's committee but outside conservative groups that he expects will outspend the N.R.C.C. 
 Without the money, the party's power has begun to wane, and with it the usual ability to control the process. Early in the fall, the Club for Growth, the hyperaggressive low-tax lobbying group, chose to run ads attacking Bob Latta, a Republican state senator who was running for Congress in a special election in Ohio, on behalf of another Republican who was contesting the nomination, Steve Buehrer, whom the Club considered more conservative. Cole was damned if he could figure out the ideological difference between the two. ''Bob Latta is a straight arrow,'' he told me. ''Nice guy, conventional Republican. And they go dump a bunch of money into another guy who you can't tell the difference! Bob Latta's not going to raise taxes. He's with them on dividends. He's a free trader.'' 
 The Club for Growth's ads had attacked Latta and connected him to the corrupt and convicted former Republican governor of Ohio, Bob Taft. Though Latta survived the primary, his Democratic competitor in the special election began to run ads mimicking the Club's line of attack. ''The problem I have with the club is I think they're stupid,'' Cole said. ''I think they're politically inept. They spend more money beating Republicans than Democrats.'' He shook his head. ''I mean -- Bob Latta! Give me a break!'' 
 In the middle of January, I flew to Oklahoma to travel with Cole through the rougher end of his Congressional district. South-central Oklahoma is raw territory, poorly off. ''You ever read Robert Caro's 'Means of Ascent,' the L.B.J. book?'' Cole asked. ''The first chapter, where he's talking about the hill country where L.B.J. came from, how poor it is? That's this. We're still in the development business in Oklahoma.'' 
 All of the evident modernity and wealth in this part of Oklahoma -- the occasional office buildings, the restored hot-springs resorts, the new hospitals and gyms -- seems to have been built by the Chickasaw Nation, with money that began to accumulate after they won the right to operate casinos two decades ago. Cole remains extremely close to the leadership of his tribe. There's a hand-in-hand relationship here: Cole works to win government support for Chickasaw projects, and the entrepreneurial Chickasaw, like a shadow government, use their profits in part to build social-service projects that help Cole's constituents. 
 This is the territory -- the poorer sectors of the red states; populist, patriotic and Christian -- that operatives of Cole and Rove's generation have spent their careers turning from bedrocks of the permanent, post-New Deal Democratic majority in Congress to the soul of the rising Republican one. Cole has been in the politics business here for decades. He left Oklahoma for Grinnell College in Iowa and then fellowships in London, came back to the University of Oklahoma to get a Ph.D. in British history and began working in politics by running his Republican mother's campaigns for the state senate (Helen Cole is enough of a figure here that she has a highway named after her), and then those of her colleagues. By 1994, he had left a post as executive director at the N.R.C.C. to become the most influential Republican consultant in the state. He ran four campaigns for Congress that year, as well as Frank Keating's campaign for governor. All of his candidates won. ''Oklahoma had been voting Republican for president since Goldwater. What we had to do was convince them that the Democrats in Washington were completely out of touch with Oklahoma values.'' 
 Nineteen ninety-four is the source of Cole's generation's war stories, its clutched box of poems. It was also the moment when the economically populist feeling that had lingered for decades began to change, converted into a Republican sensibility more amenable to business interests. ''Keating has this wonderful chart,'' Cole said with a laugh. ''A very unfair chart, but a great chart. He had all the border counties marked in red because every county in Oklahoma that bordered another state had a lower income than the county across the state line. And he'd say: 'Why is it? Is the air different in Oklahoma than in Kansas, or Texas or for God's sake Arkansas?' And of course, he'd say, 'Well, they're right-to-work states.' Or, 'They have had tort reform.' Or, 'Their tax rates are lower.' And, see, that's how he got his agenda.'' 
 But that conversion was never perfect or complete. When Cole has differed from the Republican Party in Congress, it has often been on the New Deal-legacy projects that he views as doing right by Oklahoma and that they view as pork. He has voted against the party's small-government wing on the farm bill, the water bill, most native issues and, maybe most significantly for him, on a bill that provides federal money for the first member of a family to attend college, a population that in his district is more than three times the national average. ''I knew the moment we did that it'd be cast as, the president's heroic, you're pork-barrel spenders. Well, no, it's just the green-eyeshade guys are wrong about this,'' Cole said. ''If it's a transcendent national question, then I'm a Burkean conservative, but I like to think I represent the interests of my district.''
 The danger is that these positions, held at the same time, can come to look like hypocrisy. In Ada, Okla., at a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, Cole gave a localized version of his national partisan pitch, that the Democrats were out of touch with the country on tax-and-spend issues, when a man raised his hand and asked how he could be expected to believe that line, given the excesses of the Republicans. Cole launched into a disquisition on why the contributions of earmarks to the federal deficit was overhyped but eventually conceded that the man, who turned out to be the publisher of an Oklahoma travel guide, had a ''good point.'' When I talked to him afterward, the publisher, Bob Rubin, said he was ''not very impressed. They are not accepting responsibility.'' It was hard not to conclude that Cole, and his party, were caught in something. And it was hard to see what else exactly he might have said. 
 ''The biggest problem with earmarks,'' Cole told me, ''is the potential for corruption.'' He said he believed that the impact of the scandals -- Jack Abramoff, Bob Ney, Duke Cunningham -- that eroded the party's majority in 2006 would fade fairly quickly. ''Scandals kill a politician,'' he said. ''They don't kill a party, or the next guy to run in that district.'' But it was beginning to seem more difficult to box up the Tom DeLay era and ship it off into the past. In August, the Arizona Republican Rick Renzi announced he would not run for re-election. Last month he was indicted on 35 federal charges, including of fraud and extortion, involving a series of land deals; some of the individual counts carry sentences of up to 20 years. As we were driving back to the Oklahoma City airport, Cole told me, ''My mother was very fond of the Lord Acton line, that absolute power corrupts absolutely.''
 Rahm Emanuel stepped down as the chairman of the Democratic campaign committee after the 2006 victories, replaced by the Maryland congressman Chris Van Hollen, but for Cole and the Republican operatives Emanuel remains a powerful and goading presence. When Dennis Hastert, the Illinois Republican who was speaker of the House until the 2006 election, announced this fall that he would retire and be replaced in a special election to be held in March, it seemed to give Emanuel the chance for a triumphant coda to 2006, a symbolic beheading. ''It's Rahm's home state,'' Cole told me in January. ''We know they're going to come at us hard.'' The district was solidly Republican -- the kind of prosperous Midwestern suburb that would be a linchpin of the imagined McCain coalition and that the party had to hold. 
 A few special elections in the fall had been promising for Cole. In a Massachusetts special election in October, the Republicans came close to winning back a seat that had been Democratic for more than a quarter century. In early December, Republicans successfully defended two seats in highly contested races in Ohio and Virginia. The day after those elections, Cole called his staff in to the committee's conference room. ''I've seen more lobbyists this morning than I've seen in four months,'' he said. The lobbyists were passing out checks, he told them gleefully. ''I've got one in my pocket from a guy I ran into in the street.'' In the month of January, the National Republican Congressional Committee barely outraised the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and it seemed as if things might be about to turn. 
 For the Hastert seat, Cole spent $1.2 million on the race -- close to a quarter of the committee's cash on hand and more than what the exponentially richer Democrats had contributed. McCain himself, in the middle of the presidential election, flew in to hold a fund-raiser. It was a strong effort, the strongest they could muster. When a reporter asked Cole, a couple of days before the vote, how the public would interpret the results of the election if the Republican candidate, the dairy millionaire Jim Oberweis, lost the election, the Oklahoman couldn't help himself. ''My God, it's the end of the Republican Party,'' he said.
 The vote was decisive. In a district where President Bush won by 10 percentage points in 2004, Oberweis, running against a physicist and political novice named Bill Foster, managed to lose even Kane County, where Hastert is from. In the vote's aftermath, the N.R.C.C. conceded it probably wouldn't be able to offer Oberweis much help if he ran against Foster again in November. One anonymous Capitol Hill staff member was quoted by the Politico newspaper as saying that losing Hastert's seat ''is like the toppling of the Saddam statue in Baghdad for Republicans.'' Two days after the election, Cole was telling a reporter he wasn't sure whether he would stay in his position for another term, as had been the habit of his predecessors.
 There is a strain of belief in the Republican Party that anyone can manage a good election, but it takes a veteran to handle a bad one. ''There are operatives who've known nothing but a Republican majority,'' the Republican media consultant Rich Bond told me. A week after Oberweis lost, I spoke with Cole by phone. Oberweis, he said, had perhaps not been the best candidate; he had gone into the election with high negatives. And as good a fit as McCain is for the district, he said, he couldn't be expected to contend with ''Obama-mania'' in Illinois. Cole told me that he believed the presidential race was tilting his party's way and that he felt good about the fall elections. He had been in this game a long time, he said, and the fundamentals looked sound to him. The stories about his departure had been exaggerated. 
 ''It is not,'' Cole said, ''as if I'm unhappy in my work.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The cover article in The Times Magazine this weekend, about the recent struggles of the Republican Party, misspells the surname of the Democratic congressman who helped devise the strategy for the Democratic gains in the 2006 Congressional elections. He is Rahm Emanuel, not Emmanuel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Cole, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMY ARBUS
 ELEPHANT PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW BETTLES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (69%); GEOGRAPHY (64%); ETHNICITY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: TOM COLE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008



776 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Is the Ad a Success? The Brain Waves Tell All

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
NEVER mind brainstorms. These days, Madison Avenue is all about brain waves.
 That may be overstated, but it is no exaggeration that agencies and advertisers are growing more interested in neuroscience in their never-ending efforts to improve effectiveness.
 The ardor of the ad business to adopt the technical tools of biometrics -- measuring brain waves, galvanic skin response, eye movements, pulse rates and the like -- is increasing as consumer spending, the engine of the American economy, slows. 
 In other words, in hard times ads must work harder to move the merchandise.
 ''Instead of hypotheses about what people think and feel, you actually see what they think and feel,'' said Joel Kades, vice president for strategic planning and consumer insight at Virgin Mobile USA in Warren, N.J.
 ''I'm not such a huge fan of ad testing,'' he added, but measuring biological responses is ''absolutely useful.''
 The curiosity about neuroscientific ways to determine how ads work -- or fail to work -- will be on display this week at the 54th annual convention and exposition of the Advertising Research Foundation. The agenda for the conference is filled with presentations on better methods to determine how consumers engage with ads (and vice versa).
 ''In many ways, we're testing advertising the way we were testing advertising when I was at Procter & Gamble 22 years ago,'' said Frank Stagliano, executive vice president for the Nielsen Entertainment Television Group in New York, part of the Nielsen Company.
 Neuroscience can provide ''a more accurate way to understand what consumers really like,'' Mr. Stagliano said, which helps to produce ads and programs that ''break through the clutter'' rather than contribute to it.
 Last month, Nielsen bought a stake in NeuroFocus, a company that specializes in brain-wave research and works for clients like Scottrade, the brokerage firm.
 ''We measure attention, second by second; how emotionally engaged you are with what you're watching, whether it's a commercial, a movie or a TV show; and memory retention,'' said A. K. Pradeep, chief executive at NeuroFocus in Berkeley, Calif. 
 A company that competes with NeuroFocus, the EmSense Corporation, hopes to demonstrate such usefulness in a discussion on Monday at the research foundation's convention.
 Executives of EmSense, which also tries to measure consumer response to ads through biometric techniques, will present the results of a study of how award-winning ads.
 For the study, EmSense surveyed 200 people, ages 18 to 54, in New York and San Francisco. The study measured their biosensory responses to 19 commercials that won awards last year at the International Advertising Festival in Cannes, France, and ads that won Effie Awards last year from the New York the American Marketing Association. 
 The study looked at spots like a commercial for Apple with characters playing ''PC'' and ''Mac''; the ''I Feel Pretty'' spot for Nike, with Maria Sharapova, and a commercial for Tide with a talking stain on a man's shirt. 
 On Madison Avenue, Cannes awards, known as Lions, are usually perceived as honoring creativity and Effie winners are typically deemed to reward effectiveness. The EmSense study sought to weigh the value of those emotional and cognitive approaches.
 Some findings reinforced the conventional wisdom, said Elissa Moses, chief analytics officer at EmSense in Westport, Conn., which works for clients like Virgin Mobile USA and Coca-Cola.
 Winners of Effies ''tend to be a little less emotional and use rational claims a bit more'' than winners at Cannes, Ms. Moses said, and ads that won Lions tended to be much better liked than their Effie counterparts. 
 But surprisingly, ''there are very important similarities'' between the two types of winners, she added, which can help guide future campaigns.
 Fifteen of the 19 Cannes and Effie winners engaged consumers faster than average spots, Ms. Moses said. ''Typically, a spot engages with viewers in 5 to 7 seconds. The Cannes and Effie ads engaged, whether emotionally or cognitively, in 1.5 seconds.''
 Whichever award the commercials won, they had an equal effect on purchase consideration and on brand favorability, Ms. Moses said.
 Although winners of Lions are replete with emotional appeals meant to engage viewers, they also use what Ms. Moses called a ''cognitive jolt,'' a twist or surprise, to earn interest.
 For example, viewers were startled by a car crash in a Volkswagen spot and by a dropped call in a Cingular ad. 
 Some consumer advocates question the role of biometrics in ad research. They worry that blending ''Weird Science'' with ''Mad Men'' will give marketers an unfair advantage over consumers.
 ''The role of neuromarketing is to understand how people feel and react,'' Ms. Moses said. ''It in no way sets out to meddle with normal, natural response mechanisms.''
 Her opinion was echoed by Robert E. Knight, the director of the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute at the University of California, Berkeley, who is also the chief science adviser at NeuroFocus.
 ''We're not trying to predict an individual's thoughts and actions and we're not trying to input messages,'' Dr. Knight said. 
 Before Nielsen teamed up with NeuroFocus, Mr. Stagliano said, ''we were concerned how people would respond,'' but after a test at the CBS Television City research laboratory in Las Vegas, the reaction was ''overwhelmingly positive.''
 ''Respondents didn't feel like they were being probed or anything,'' Mr. Stagliano said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An ad for Apple was used for a study of consumers' biometric responses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING RESEARCH (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BIOMETRICS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN MOBILE USA INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); SCOTTRADE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING RESEARCH FOUNDATION (55%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



777 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Nothing's Wasted, Especially Garbage

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
There is nothing more disgusting than garbage that doesn't know its place. That's one reason it's garbage in the first place. It is something we are done with, that no longer belongs near us. It must be removed, taken away. Otherwise it contaminates, disgusts. The anthropologist Mary Douglas suggested that the very definition of dirt was ''matter out of place'': a hair on one's head is one thing, a hair in a glass of water is another. A half-eaten plate of food is a savored delicacy in one context, a mound of waste in another. 
 So it shouldn't be any surprise that there is a Nimby reaction to garbage dumps. Of course they shouldn't be in my backyard. That would be the very essence of pollution: breaking down the boundary between refuse and refuge.
 Maybe there's also something profound to be discerned in how we look at garbage. If a fortune-teller can read the future in soggy tea leaves, what might be discovered if we look carefully at milk cartons and used paper towels, cooking grease and moldy bread? There is much to understand about garbage, and a reluctance, because of its very nature, to look too closely. 
 In folklore, for example, the rag picker and dust sweeper are often possessed of an intimate understanding of people, an insight that eludes those of us who turn away from such matters. There is also a strong element of economic class in the way garbage is regarded. The shantytowns of the world's poor are constructed out of the discarded flotsam of urban life, but one privilege of the wealthy is to be separated from garbage quickly and decisively. 
 Garbage that doesn't seem to know its place may also be suggestive. It is, at least, in a modest series of display windows at New York University, at the corner of West Third Street and La Guardia Place in Greenwich Village. The windows, installed on Friday, are a result of a collaboration between the university and the New York City Sanitation Department and were previously shown at the department's quaintly named Derelict Vehicles Office, where abandoned cars and wrecks enter Purgatory. 
 The windows, at the Kimmel Center for University Life, describe themselves as ''the first step toward founding a museum for the Department of Sanitation,'' for this is an agency that, unlike its brethren the New York City Police and Fire Departments and the Transportation Authority, does not have its own museum. The exhibit grew out of a course given last fall, ''Making a Museum,'' that had the unfortunate subtitle ''Materializing Regimes of Value With the New York City Department of Sanitation.'' 
 ''What is the cognitive, practical, and cultural role of garbage in contemporary life?'' the syllabus asks. Unfortunately the use of jargon (''regimes of value'') inspires some wonder about whether that role has also affected rhetoric. But judging from the curriculum, the class, taught by Haidy Geismar, a professor in N.Y.U.'s museum studies program, and Robin Nagle, an anthropologist, was meant to explore concretely how an exhibition about this often overlooked subject might be approached. 
 The impetus came from Ms. Nagle, who has long been fascinated by the Sanitation Department, went through job training there, wrote a diary about her experience for Slate in 2004 and is completing a book about the agency. That intimate connection probably helped in putting together this modest show's most intriguing textual panel, a glossary of the Sanitation Department: Air mail is defined as ''garbage thrown at the truck from windows above.'' Blood money is ''overtime for working snow once the novelty has worn off.'' Tissue is ''a desk job, an easy job.''
 The displays themselves are both celebratory and restrained. In one window a panel about recycling, with the heading ''Trash and Transformation,'' is mounted above a pile of dry, nonorganic trash, ranging from old LPs to a pink flamingo -- examples of what is defined here as mongo: ''objects plucked/rescued from the trash.'' Another pays tribute to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, which was about to close just before 9/11 and was then quickly put to use in the processing of the ruins and debris. 
 There are also historical photos of sanitation men posing in pristine uniforms in the early 20th century. They were given the angelic name of White Wings, though the era's streets, full of refuse, human waste, and horse manure, made it unlikely they would end the working day in as crisp a fashion. There are also mentions of the job's dangers: a sanitation worker in 1996 died almost instantly when an illegally dumped drum of hydrofluoric acid was crushed by the truck's mechanism, spraying him with the corrosive chemical. 
 One of Ms. Nagle's main concerns is the invisibility of ''san men'' as they are called, the ways in which people look past them, almost straining to ignore their work. But that is not too surprising given that garbage is something that is meant to be exorcised, ''taken out'' or incinerated. One traditional measure of luxury is how little it is possible to come into personal contact with garbage or its removal.
 A museum about how New York, and by implication all modern cities, deals with garbage, might actually redeem its subject matter, not earning it much affection perhaps but revealing its hidden influences and powers. 
 But there is also much to understand about the odd place garbage now holds in middle-class life. At least in part the impulse to redeem garbage and its handlers is found not only in these windows. Spurred by environmental concerns, attitudes have been shifting. 
 Instead of wanting to excommunicate our trash, we often treat it as if it were not refuse at all. We classify our waste, create different containers for it and carefully label it, the way we would collections of cherished objects. We are even instructed to rinse some garbage. 
 It is as if we were fetishistically preparing dead matter for resurrection or afterlife. That is, of course, the idea, and there are many reasons reclamation might be a practical goal. But a devout attitude attaches to the rituals, a feeling of virtue that seems to transcend considerations of cost. Recycling is still far more expensive than alternatives, not even counting the time and resources devoted to it in every household. 
 The rituals are also rigorous. In New York punishments are meted out even if the wrong kind of plastic bag is used for garbage inside sealed, labeled recycling containers. 
 Put aside discussions of resources and cost; think of what a change this is in attitude. We have redeemed the untouchable, atoned for past wrongs, embraced the forbidden, made democratic the contact with waste. We must now all embrace our inner garbage.
 ''Loaded Out: Making a Museum'' is on display 24 hours a day through May 5 in the windows of New York University's Kimmel Center, corner of La Guardia Place and West Third Street, Greenwich Village. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sanitation workers from 100 years ago in a window display at N.Y.U., visible from the street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); LANDFILLS (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (72%); CURRICULA (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); FOLKLORE (65%); CITY LIFE (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (61%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008



778 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Savings Ads Assailed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
One commercial features a family embarking on a long overdue vacation. Another depicts a father and son preparing to buy a used car. In both, Wal-Mart shopping bags are visible in their cars. 
 Wal-Mart, the ads claim, saves the average family $2,500 a year. The implication seems clear: shop at Wal-Mart, save money, and you can afford to splurge.
 But it turns out you save $2,500 even if you never step foot inside a Wal-Mart.
 The figure represents the company's calculation of its overall impact on an American household, not the average savings for Wal-Mart shoppers, and this has led an influential watchdog group to recommend that the campaign be fixed or halted. 
 On Monday, the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus will announce its finding that the ''implied claim'' in the ads -- that families shopping at Wal-Mart will save $2,500 a year more than those that shop at other big stores -- is misleading.
 It is a message ''for which the advertiser provided no support and, in fact, conceded that there was none,'' the group says.
 The claim of saving $2,500 dates to 2005, when Wal-Mart, under mounting criticism from unions and elected leaders over its business practices, commissioned a study of its economic impact on Americans. 
 An outside firm, paid by Wal-Mart, found that the company's emphasis on low prices led to a 3 percent decline in overall consumer prices. That translated into $287 billion in savings in 2006, or $2,500 a household, whether a family shops at Wal-Mart or a competitor, according to the study. 
 The watchdog group had no quibble with what it called the ''express claim'' of Wal-Mart's ad -- that it saves American families $2,500 a year. ''The advertiser has provided adequate support for its intended message,'' according to the report. 
 But the group found that the ads -- which imply that savings from Wal-Mart allowed the families to take the vacation and buy the car -- could lead consumers ''to quite reasonably take away the message that families that shop at Wal-Mart will save $2,500 per year more than families that shop at other stores.''
 Wal-Mart said it was ''surprised'' by that inference. ''It was not the intended message, nor was it a reasonable interpretation,'' it told the group, according to the report.
 Nevertheless, Wal-Mart said in a statement to the group that it ''would be proud'' to take the recommendation into account in its advertising, ''ensuring that the positive impact we have for all American families is even more explicit.'' MICHAEL BARBARO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FAMILY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (69%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



779 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Showing Power, But Weakening A Neighborhood

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Baseball season is an 85-year-old fact of neighborhood life. Happens every spring. Still, opening day is no less jarring, a fresh reminder to a longtime resident of how the Yankees rule.
 Joyce Hogi lives on the Grand Concourse, a five-minute walk from her job as assistant to the principal at All Hallows High School on 164th Street in the South Bronx. ''Once again, it's so much in your face, cars and police barricades everywhere, everything geared to the comfort of the Yankees and their fans,'' she said.
 The Yankees win. When John Sterling makes the ''the'' sound hysterically polysyllabic on the radio this season, take a moment to consider at whose expense. 
 By the tens of thousands, fans will come Monday for opening day, Toronto at the Yankees, and every game day thereafter to gape at the retrofit future Yankee Stadium that stands, however unfinished, alongside the weathered timepiece that pays tribute to baseball's past. The House That George Herman Ruth Built and the one that George M. Steinbrenner privately financed, with the exception of taxpayer-financed infrastructure upgrades and a land grab with costs best measured in cruelty. 
 Two classic edifices, one season only; has there ever been a more shock-and-awe demonstration of Bronx Bombers power?
 ''There was no one in this neighborhood that was against development, against a new stadium,'' Hogi said in a telephone interview. ''But responsible development, not what we got.''
 With the stadiums side by side, the end of one era blurs with the beginning of another. Baseball's sights and sounds are always familiarly welcome. But I wonder how many visitors inching their cars through the narrow streets from the northern suburbs or New Jersey this season will notice what has been lost, or taken, from that crowded urban landscape. 
 How many will mourn the fallen trees, the oasis of green that was Macombs Dam Park, the way Joyce Hogi will?
 ''A lot of people in the neighborhood really never thought it was going to happen until the trees came down,'' she said.
 In stages, the park was shuttered, the people of what is often called the poorest Congressional district in America, thrown out at home. Finally, last November, the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation issued a news release announcing the closing of the last remaining section, including the ball fields, the handball and basketball courts, to make way for another sure sign of artistic urban development, Garage A. 
 ''The students in our school used those fields, all of the neighborhood kids did,'' Hogi said. ''Now they are gypsies, going here, going there.''
 The community activists, Hogi among them, lost the court battles and the war to save the park as the community centerpiece. The Yankees got what they had long lobbied for. The city said it would replace every park acre, roughly 24, and would actually add space. This all sounded perfectly reasonable to the outsider, but the fine print diluted the promise. On a miniature scale, this was Central Park being broken up, spread among the boroughs.
 ''The story was always about the fragmentation of the park,'' said Geoffrey Croft, the president and founder of the NYC Park Advocates, a nonprofit group. ''And when I started looking at the replacement scheme, it never added up.''
 The politicians say otherwise, gushing about public ball fields that will replace the original stadium. Croft, who happens to have grown up on 167th Street, complains about an existing schoolyard called part of the replacement acreage, a pedestrian walkway he says the city is also trying to count. Turf fields planned for the roof of Garage A will not exactly invigorate on a sweltering August day when visiting sport utility vehicles are belching fumes.
 This all could have been avoided, argued Hogi, a member of the Community Board 4's parks committee. The Yankees could have gone to Shea Stadium for two seasons, as they did in 1974 and 1975, had their new stadium been built on the existing site. 
 She blames the politicians who cut the deal, not the Yankees, a capitalist enterprise, after all. But it is interesting how Steinbrenner, 77, is now portrayed as a civic hero, a respected city elder, in New York and Tampa, a far cry from when many considered him something between a would-be robber baron and the raving village idiot.
 In the time since he has slowed down, as his sons like to put it, we have all been conditioned to consider Steinbrenner's softer side, his charitable deeds. But it wasn't too long ago, when he was his old blustery self, that he and members of his organization were ruthlessly disparaging in their characterizations of the South Bronx while scheming to abandon it for Manhattan, or Jersey. 
 Luckily for them, they failed. Now, for one season, there are two Yankee Stadiums, no more Macombs Dam Park. Until the city makes the very best possible restitution of what right now is a deplorable situation, we may be impressed, even awed, by what is said to be progress. We cannot be proud.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yankees' new stadium is replacing Macombs Dam Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); CITIES (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



780 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Where Is Your Rebate Check Going?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Stop Those Checks'' (Op-Ed, March 24), Bruce Bartlett calls for stopping the tax rebate checks, which are scheduled to go out in May, because, he says, ''there is no evidence'' that past rebate checks ''meaningfully stimulated either consumption or growth.'' 
 But a study of the 2001 rebates, published in the December 2006 issue of The American Economic Review, did offer evidence. According to the study, ''households spent 20 to 40 percent of their rebates on nondurable goods during the three-month period in which their rebates arrived, and roughly two-thirds of their rebates cumulatively during this period and the subsequent three-month period.'' It concluded that the ''implied effects on aggregate consumption demand are substantial.'' 
 These tax rebates should be repeated every three months until the economy starts recovering.
 Laurence Seidman Newark, Del., March 24, 2008 The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Delaware.
 To the Editor:
 I agree that Congress should redirect the money for the rebates to an area that needs it, like education or infrastructure. 
 As a college student, I would pay off loans with my check. Other people are likely to pay credit card bills or the mortgage, or just put the money in the bank because the economy is headed downward. 
 These rebates will not spark our economy, as the Bush administration would like. The money could be better spent in other ways. 
 Emily Reynolds Malden, Mass., March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bruce Bartlett believes that most Americans ''would happily give up their rebates if they knew that the money would be used instead to help families in need and start the process of cleaning up the bad debts in the housing sector.'' 
 I'm not sure -- especially when President Bush presents the stimulus checks as a return to taxpayers of ''their own money.'' Mr. Bush calls upon us not to rally to our country but to the mall.
 There are so many ways Washington could stimulate the domestic economy besides Mr. Bartlett's focus on curing the housing market. How much more useful would it be to spend the tax-rebate portion of the $160 billion stimulus package on our long-neglected infrastructure? That would create jobs and demand for capital goods, and the money wouldn't be siphoned off from our economy like the rebate checks that will likely be spent on imported goods. 
 And does anyone find it pathetic that what Mr. Bush asserts is ''our own money'' must be borrowed, mostly from abroad, and thus digs our national financial hole deeper still and makes a real recovery in our economy all the more difficult? 
 Steven Horwitz Moraga, Calif., March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am a volunteer tax-return preparer. Because of the rebates, we are seeing so many filers this year that crowd control has become a problem. The majority have not had to file in recent years because their incomes are so low, and many subsist on Social Security alone.
 I hope that if Bruce Bartlett's proposal becomes law and we cancel the stimulus payments, he will come down here and explain to the angry crowd, most of whom struggle to pay the rent or are doubled or tripled up with relatives, that their payments are being snatched away to help homeowners who have gotten in over their heads. I will hold his coat. 
 Charles Haspel Miami Beach, March 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bruce Bartlett's call to ''Stop Those Checks'' is a ray of hope for true American values in these troubled economic times. I would happily sacrifice my rebate if I ''knew that the money would be used instead to help families in need.'' 
 In fact, since reading Mr. Bartlett's plea, I have decided not to spend the money on yet one more possession or even on gas but to donate it to a charity that I know will help a family that has lost its home or to an organization that helps the thousands of disabled Iraq war veterans find adequate medical support.
 Janet Kehl Arrowsic, Me., March 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); FAMILY (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SALES REBATES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



781 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: The Dilbert Strategy

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Anyone who has worked in a large organization -- or, for that matter, reads the comic strip ''Dilbert'' -- is familiar with the ''org chart'' strategy. To hide their lack of any actual ideas about what to do, managers sometimes make a big show of rearranging the boxes and lines that say who reports to whom.
 You now understand the principle behind the Bush administration's new proposal for financial reform, which will be formally announced today: it's all about creating the appearance of responding to the current crisis, without actually doing anything substantive. 
 The financial events of the last seven months, and especially the past few weeks, have convinced all but a few diehards that the U.S. financial system needs major reform. Otherwise, we'll lurch from crisis to crisis -- and the crises will get bigger and bigger.
 The rescue of Bear Stearns, in particular, was a paradigm-changing event. 
 Traditional, deposit-taking banks have been regulated since the 1930s, because the experience of the Great Depression showed how bank failures can threaten the whole economy. Supposedly, however, ''non-depository'' institutions like Bear didn't have to be regulated, because ''market discipline'' would ensure that they were run responsibly. 
 When push came to shove, however, the Federal Reserve didn't dare let market discipline run its course. Instead, it rushed to Bear's rescue, risking billions of taxpayer dollars, because it feared that the collapse of a major financial institution would endanger the financial system as a whole.
 And if financial players like Bear are going to receive the kind of rescue previously limited to deposit-taking banks, the implication seems obvious: they should be regulated like banks, too. 
 The Bush administration, however, has spent the last seven years trying to do away with government oversight of the financial industry. In fact, the new plan was originally conceived of as ''promoting a competitive financial services sector leading the world and supporting continued economic innovation.'' That's banker-speak for getting rid of regulations that annoy big financial operators.
 To reverse course now, and seek expanded regulation, the administration would have to back down on its free-market ideology -- and it would also have to face up to the fact that it was wrong. And this administration never, ever, admits that it made a mistake. 
 Thus, in a draft of a speech to be delivered on Monday, Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, declares, ''I do not believe it is fair or accurate to blame our regulatory structure for the current turmoil.'' 
 And sure enough, according to the executive summary of the new administration plan, regulation will be limited to institutions that receive explicit federal guarantees -- that is, institutions that are already regulated, and have not been the source of today's problems. As for the rest, it blithely declares that ''market discipline is the most effective tool to limit systemic risk.'' 
 The administration, then, has learned nothing from the current crisis. Yet it needs, as a political matter, to pretend to be doing something. 
 So the Treasury has, with great fanfare, announced -- you know what's coming -- its support for a rearrangement of the boxes on the org chart. OCC, OTS, and CFTC are out; PFRA and CBRA are in. Whatever.
 Will rearranging these boxes make any difference? I've been disappointed to see some news outlets report as fact the administration's cover story -- the claim that lack of coordination among regulatory agencies was an important factor in our current problems. 
 The truth is that that's not at all what happened. The various regulators actually did quite well at acting in a coordinated fashion. Unfortunately, they coordinated in the wrong direction. 
 For example, there was a 2003 photo-op in which officials from multiple agencies used pruning shears and chainsaws to chop up stacks of banking regulations. The occasion symbolized the shared determination of Bush appointees to suspend adult supervision just as the financial industry was starting to run wild.
 Oh, and the Bush administration actively blocked state governments when they tried to protect families against predatory lending.
 So, will the administration's plan succeed? I'm not asking whether it will succeed in preventing future financial crises -- that's not its purpose. The question, instead, is whether it will succeed in confusing the issue sufficiently to stand in the way of real reform.
 Let's hope not. As I said, America's financial crises have been getting bigger. A decade ago, the market disruption that followed the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management was considered a major, scary event; but compared with the current earthquake, the L.T.C.M. crisis was a minor tremor. 
 If we don't reform the system this time, the next crisis could well be even bigger. And I, for one, really don't want to live through a replay of the 1930s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); BANK FAILURES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



782 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 618 words

PERSON: David Gale 

HEADLINE: David Gale, 86; Created Marriage Algorithm

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

 BODY:
David Gale, a wide-ranging mathematician who helped develop an algorithm for pairing individuals into couples that has also been used to match hospitals with fledgling doctors for medical residencies, died on March 7 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 86.
 The cause was a heart attack, his family said. 
 Dr. Gale's interests included mathematical games and puzzles and the creation of economic models, but he was widely recognized for work on the so-called stable marriage algorithm, a concept he developed in the 1960s with the economist and mathematician Lloyd S. Shapley. 
 The problem begins with the assumption that equal numbers of men and women are in search of potential partners. Is it possible to pair the individuals in such a way that all achieve a satisfactory match? The solution developed by Dr. Shapley and Dr. Gale was to have each participant rank the members of the other sex in terms of desirability. The researchers then developed an algorithm that directed each participant to his or her next choice of partner, if rejected by the first or second choices.
 The result was that everyone would be matched in a ''stable'' pairing, a term meant to suggest that no two members of the opposite sex would rather marry each other than the ultimate partner provided by the algorithm. 
 The findings were published in 1962 in The American Mathematical Monthly, and were soon recognized as having broad applications to other situations.
 More recently, a form of the algorithm has been used to assign students to public high schools in New York City. As applied to medical students and their residencies, it has been criticized for not taking hospital salaries into consideration, potentially stifling competition and affecting the way the free market might raise pay for residents, an issue that is controversial among economists who study the matching process.
 In 2007, Dr. Gale took a fresh look at matching in another form: reports of imbalances in the number of sexual partners that men and women claim they have had in their lifetimes. When a federal survey found that American women reported a median of four partners and that the median reported for heterosexual men was seven, Dr. Gale expressed his incredulity and wrote a proof to explain why. Some had suggested that men's traffic with prostitutes would account for the difference, but Dr. Gale believed that would have had a ''negligible'' effect on the numbers. 
 ''Surveys and studies to the contrary notwithstanding,'' he later told The New York Times, ''the conclusion that men have substantially more sex partners than women is not and cannot be true for purely logical reasons.''
 David Gale was born on Dec. 13, 1921, in Manhattan. He graduated from Swarthmore College before receiving his doctorate in mathematics at Princeton in 1949.
 He joined the faculty at Brown University in 1950, as an assistant professor of mathematics. He became a professor of mathematics there in 1961 and was chairman of Brown's mathematics department from 1961 to 1965. Dr. Gale then moved to the University of California, Berkeley, where he was a professor of mathematics and operations research from 1966 to 1990.
 He wrote a reference book, ''The Theory of Linear Economic Models'' (1960), intended for economists and mathematicians; it reviews game theories and linear programming.
 Dr. Gale's marriage to Julie Skeby ended in divorce in 1974. He is survived by his companion, Sandra M. Gilbert, a poet and literary critic. They lived in Berkeley and Paris. He is also survived by three daughters, Karen, of Sacramento, Katharine, of Berkeley, and Kirsten Cutler of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a sister, Ellen Dunning of Peabody, Mass; and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Gale 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); MEN (77%); WOMEN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); GENDER EQUALITY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); PROSTITUTION (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



783 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Minister Sees Salvation Of Harlem In Boycott

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
For the past several months, elegantly dressed men and women have been handing out thousands of postcards to passers-by on the streets of Harlem. It is part of a campaign to boycott neighborhood shops to protest gentrification. While the boycott itself has had little impact, the man behind it, an ex-convict turned minister named James D. Manning, has been increasingly difficult for some to ignore.
 Mr. Manning, 61, has become an annoyance not only to shopkeepers, but to Harlem's political, cultural and religious leaders as well. His goal is to force businesses to close -- including those owned by blacks -- causing the neighborhood's economic rebirth to stall and, therefore, property values to decline. He has also called for a general rent strike. 
 In his sermons and in video messages posted on his church's Web site and on YouTube, Mr. Manning, who is himself black, has denounced a medley of African-Americans, including Representative Charles Rangel, the Rev. Al Sharpton, Prof. Cornel West of Princeton University and the hip-hop performer Jay-Z. He has also had harsh words for black people in general, and black men in particular.
 He said his followers have handed out 200,000 cards calling for an economic boycott. When they meet to discuss the boycott, he said, the police stand guard outside because of threats.
 Mr. Manning served time in prison for various crimes and was dismissed out of hand by many Harlem leaders; several did not return calls after their representatives were told that he would be the topic of the interview. But no matter how potentially inflammatory his rhetoric has been, the pastor seems to have tapped into an emotional vein for at least some longtime residents of Harlem, a place where brownstones that had no takers in the 1980s are now on the market for more than $1 million.
 On March 22, after services at Atlah World Missionary Church on 123rd Street in central Harlem, Mr. Manning led 120 members of his congregation on a protest march along 125th Street. (Atlah, an acronym for All the Land Anointed Holy, is Mr. Manning's name for Harlem.)
 The marchers, many of them older women and men who walked with evident pain and struggled to catch their breath after only a few blocks in the cold, proceeded silently, carrying neatly printed signs that advocated a three-year boycott of all Harlem businesses.
 ''I've offended a lot of people, to be sure, but I've also been very successful in getting people to work together,'' Mr. Manning, a mild-mannered, balding man, said during a recent interview in his church's office.
 Mr. Manning, who has been the church's pastor for 27 years, said the intent of the boycott was to return Harlem to its pregentrification days of 1990, without the crack, crime and boarded-up buildings. His hope, he says, is that declining property values will make housing affordable for those he believes are the neighborhood's rightful owners: black people. 
 ''It is our homeland. It is our Mecca. It is the only place we have,'' he said, his voice rising. ''It ought not to be overrun the way that's happening. We are an endangered species.'' But many of the new residents of Harlem are in fact middle-class African-Americans.
 Mr. Manning's many critics say his call for a boycott is irresponsible and would devastate a neighborhood that has only recently showed signs of even modest economic well-being.
 A few months ago, during a phone conversation, Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright told the pastor that his behavior was reckless and that he considered Mr. Manning an unknown quantity. Both men confirmed the details of the conversation. 
 ''I told him, 'I think it's irresponsible as a pastor in this neighborhood to tell people not to pay rent,' '' said Mr. Wright, who has been a frequent target of Mr. Manning's gibes. Still, he said, the pastor represents anger and fear felt among some longtime black residents of Harlem.
 ''I'm worried, too, that with all this new development we're being priced out,'' said Mr. Wright. ''People are scared. I'm scared. But not paying rent is not the answer.''
 Sudhir Venkatesh, a professor of sociology at Columbia University, said Mr. Manning and his congregation of about 150 people do represent feelings shared by a large portion of the community.
 ''To write off Pastor Manning would be an absolute mistake,'' he said. ''There is a very strong sentiment in the black community in Harlem and elsewhere that during the last 20 years the government has subsidized middle- and upper-class interests that have tended not to promote economic development that caters to the lower classes. There's a strong sentiment that they are losing their community.''
 Observers point out that the same economic forces are causing similar changes in other neighborhoods -- the South Bronx, the Lower East Side and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, among them. But because Harlem has long been a cultural touchstone, its survival as a predominantly black neighborhood has become central to the efforts of at least a half dozen groups.
 Mr. Manning grew up outside the town of Red Springs, N.C., which was then segregated, picking cotton and tobacco as a boy. He took a bus to New York the day he graduated from high school. He became radicalized in the 1960s and said he was driven by his hatred of white people. 
 He began burglarizing homes, mostly on Long Island. Between 1969 and 1974, he said, he broke into as many as 100 houses, and once threatened an associate with a loaded shotgun. In all, he spent about three and a half years in prison in New York and Florida for burglary, robbery, larceny, criminal possession of a weapon and other charges before his release in 1978.
 While in prison, he became a devout Christian, and upon release, he completed college and graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan, earning a master's degree in divinity in 1985. 
 On the pulpit, Mr. Manning is transformed into a shouting, singing, wildly gesticulating man. The members of his congregation sometimes trade weary looks during his sermons. 
 ''He is not a traditional Baptist pastor, and it requires for me a good deal of prayer and contemplation to digest things, because he hits hard,'' said Ladessia Johnson, 57, a longtime church member. She paused, and then added, ''But I simply trust him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. James D. Manning, at his Atlah World Missionary Church in Harlem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MEN (78%); WOMEN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PRISONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); RELIGION (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); RETAILERS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%); HAIR LOSS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); JAY-Z (51%); AL SHARPTON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



784 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Island's Past and Future, in a Layer Cake

BYLINE: By MELODY SIMMONS

DATELINE: SMITH ISLAND, Md. 

 BODY:
With the blessing of state lawmakers in Annapolis, a sweet blend of flour, butter, eggs and chocolate may provide an economic boost to this small, struggling island in the middle of the Chesapeake Bay. 
 Years of strict limits on crabbing and oyster harvesting have whittled down the work of watermen, the island's main source of income, leaving an unusual multilayered cake -- known as the Smith Island cake -- as the new great hope. A bill to designate it Maryland's official dessert has passed the State Senate and is awaiting final approval in the House. 
 ''Florida has the key lime pie, Massachusetts has the Boston cream pie and, hopefully, Maryland will have the Smith Island cake,'' said D. Page Elmore, a Republican who represents the rural lower Eastern Shore. ''This is a source of revenue for them -- and a source of pride.'' 
 The confection's origin is uncertain, but some say it can be traced to Welsh and English settlers who came to the island in the late 1600s. The cake originally was four layers, but the women of Smith Island started to stack it higher as a form of competition, and it eventually grew to as many as a dozen layers, said Mary Ada Marshall, a baker here. 
 Mrs. Marshall, 60, said she learned from her grandmother how to build her own version, an 8 to 10-layer yellow cake, divided by a thin layer of hot fudge icing that is also spread on the top and sides. Cake variations include bananas, strawberries, pineapple, peaches and cream, or figs as filling between each layer.
 ''Some layers can get as thin as an envelope,'' said Mrs. Marshall, who sells hundreds of cakes a year.
 Mrs. Marshall said the cake had the potential to help tourism on Smith Island, an 8,000-acre salt marsh haven across the Tangier Sound, 10 miles from Crisfield on the mainland. About 250 residents live in the island's three communities, Ewell, Rhodes Point and Tylerton, accessible only by ferry. The general store, post office and Methodist church form the social hub, and golf carts and bicycles are used to get around on paths slightly wider than a sidewalk.
 ''If the women can kind of supplement the men a little bit, that's a big help,'' Mrs. Marshall said, in the island's dialect, much like Elizabethan English. ''You look at this as a cake. I look at it as $20.''
 For more than three decades, scientists and environmentalists have clashed with watermen over the state of the crustacean and oyster populations in the bay. Blaming pollution, disease and overfishing, state lawmakers in Maryland and Virginia have placed restrictions on annual harvests, including limits on the size and number of crabs and oyster caught daily. 
 Bill Goldsborough, director of the fisheries program for the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, a nonprofit conservation group, said the watermen there were victims of the bay's pollution problems. Biologists say the state's 2007 crab harvest was 21.8 million pounds, well below the yearly average of 48 million pounds over a 60-year period beginning in 1945. 
 ''Smith Island is an insular community, like the canary in the mine shaft for the condition of the bay,'' Mr. Goldsborough said. ''I can see how it has changed and the community has deteriorated.'' 
 Mrs. Marshall's husband, Dwight, 63, a fifth generation waterman, said he was the end of the family line. 
 ''The water business used to be fun,'' he said. ''I couldn't wait; it used to be just like picking up money off the bottom. But now, I don't know whether I'm right or wrong until the inspector comes aboard and gives me a ticket.''
 Hester Smith, who has lived on Smith Island for 66 years, also lamented the economic changes. She has witnessed generations move away to more stable jobs on the mainland. As for the Smith Island cake, she is mixing up her batter. 
 ''It's a wonderful place to live,'' Mrs. Smith said. ''We can go to bed or go on vacation and never have to lock our doors. We don't have to be scared like everybody away from here. All the women just about make cakes. The women will pull together and try to save the island.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Ada Marshall, above, stood behind eight pans of freshly baked cake at her home in Maryland. The cakes were then stacked, left, to form one Smith Island cake.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Smith Island hopes to supplement its seafood industry. Map details area of SMITH ISLAND. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SHELLFISH FISHING (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); CRUSTACEANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); MARYLAND USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



785 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: As Jobs Vanish and Prices Rise, Food Stamp Use Nears Record

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
Driven by a painful mix of layoffs and rising food and fuel prices, the number of Americans receiving food stamps is projected to reach 28 million in the coming year, the highest level since the aid program began in the 1960s. 
 The number of recipients, who must have near-poverty incomes to qualify for benefits averaging $100 a month per family member, has fluctuated over the years along with economic conditions, eligibility rules, enlistment drives and natural disasters like Hurricane Katrina, which led to a spike in the South. 
 But recent rises in many states appear to be resulting mainly from the economic slowdown, officials and experts say, as well as inflation in prices of basic goods that leave more families feeling pinched. Citing expected growth in unemployment, the Congressional Budget Office this month projected a continued increase in the monthly number of recipients in the next fiscal year, starting Oct. 1 -- to 28 million, up from 27.8 million in 2008, and 26.5 million in 2007. 
 The percentage of Americans receiving food stamps was higher after a recession in the 1990s, but actual numbers are expected to be higher this year. 
 Federal benefit costs are projected to rise to $36 billion in the 2009 fiscal year from $34 billion this year. 
 ''People sign up for food stamps when they lose their jobs, or their wages go down because their hours are cut,'' said Stacy Dean, director of food stamp policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, who noted that 14 states saw their rolls reach record numbers by last December. 
 One example is Michigan, where one in eight residents now receives food stamps. ''Our caseload has more than doubled since 2000, and we're at an all-time record level,'' said Maureen Sorbet, spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of Human Services. 
 The climb in food stamp recipients there has been relentless, through economic upturns and downturns, reflecting a steady loss of industrial jobs that has pushed recipient levels to new highs in Ohio and Illinois as well. 
 ''We've had poverty here for a good while,'' Ms. Sorbet said. Contributing to the rise, she added, Michigan, like many other states, has also worked to make more low-end workers aware of their eligibility, and a switch from coupons to electronic debit cards has reduced the stigma. 
 Some states have experienced more recent surges. From December 2006 to December 2007, more than 40 states saw recipient numbers rise, and in several -- Arizona, Florida, Maryland, Nevada, North Dakota and Rhode Island -- the one-year growth was 10 percent or more. 
 In Rhode Island, the number of recipients climbed by 18 percent over the last two years, to more than 84,000 as of February, or about 8.4 percent of the population. This is the highest total in the last dozen years or more, said Bob McDonough, the state's administrator of family and adult services, and reflects both a strong enlistment effort and an upward creep in unemployment. 
 In New York, a program to promote enrollment increased food stamp rolls earlier in the decade, but the current climb in applications appears in part to reflect economic hardship, said Michael Hayes, spokesman for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. The additional 67,000 clients added from July 2007 to January of this year brought total recipients to 1.86 million, about one in 10 New Yorkers. 
 Nutrition and poverty experts praise food stamps as a vital safety net that helped eliminate the severe malnutrition seen in the country as recently as the 1960s. But they also express concern about what they called the gradual erosion of their value. 
 Food stamps are an entitlement program, with eligibility guidelines set by Congress and the federal government paying for benefits while states pay most administrative costs. 
 Eligibility is determined by a complex formula, but basically recipients must have few assets and incomes below 130 percent of the poverty line, or less than $27,560 for a family of four. 
 As a share of the national population, food stamp use was highest in 1994, after several years of poor economic growth, with an average of 27.5 million recipients per month from a lower total of residents. The numbers plummeted in the late 1990s as the economy grew and legal immigrants and certain others were excluded. 
 But access by legal immigrants has been partly restored and, in the current decade, the federal and state governments have used advertising and other measures to inform people of their eligibility and have often simplified application procedures. 
 Because they spend a higher share of their incomes on basic needs like food and fuel, low-income Americans have been hit hard by soaring gasoline and heating costs and jumps in the prices of staples like milk, eggs and bread. 
 At the same time, average family incomes among the bottom fifth of the population have been stagnant or have declined in recent years at levels around $15,500, said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. 
 The benefit levels, which can amount to many hundreds of dollars for families with several children, are adjusted each June according to the price of a bare-bones ''thrifty food plan,'' as calculated by the Department of Agriculture. Because food prices have risen by about 5 percent this year, benefit levels will rise similarly in June -- months after the increase in costs for consumers. 
 Advocates worry more about the small but steady decline in real benefits since 1996, when the ''standard deduction'' for living costs, which is subtracted from family income to determine eligibility and benefit levels, was frozen. If that deduction had continued to rise with inflation, the average mother with two children would be receiving an additional $37 a month, according to the private Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
 Both houses of Congress have passed bills that would index the deduction to the cost of living, but the measures are part of broader agriculture bills that appear unlikely to pass this year because of disagreements with the White House over farm policy. 
 Another important federal nutrition program known as WIC, for women, infants and children, is struggling with rising prices of milk and cheese, and growing enrollment. 
 The program, for households with incomes no higher than 185 percent of the federal poverty level, provides healthy food and nutrition counseling to 8.5 million pregnant women, and children through the age of 4. WIC is not an entitlement like food stamps, and for the fiscal year starting in October, Congress may have to approve a large increase over its current budget of $6 billion if states are to avoid waiting lists for needy mothers and babies. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Barometer of Tougher Times: Higher food and gasoline prices and more layoffs are contributing to an increased number of Americans receiving food stamps, with recipients expected to reach 28 million in the 2009 fiscal year.
Food stamp recipients in the U.S., for fiscal years Chart details bar graph for 1988-2008
Change in number of food stamp recipients,: Dec. 2006 to Dec. 2007 Chart details regions of US affected by rise or decline in food stamp use.(Sources: U.S. Department of Agriculture
 projections by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (96%); FOOD PRICES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FAMILY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); DEBIT CARDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



786 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: The Baton Passes to Asia

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
HONG KONG
 It's the end of the era of the white man.
 I know your head is spinning. The world can feel like one of those split-screen TVs with images of a suicide bombing in Baghdad flashing, and the latest awful market news coursing along the bottom, and an ad for some stool-loosening wonder drug squeezed into a corner.
 The jumble makes no sense. It just goes on, like the mindless clacking of an ice-dispenser. 
 On the globalized treadmill, you drop your eyes again from the screen (now showing ads for gourmet canine cuisine) to the New Yorker or Asahi Shimbun. And another bomb goes off.
 There's a lot of noise and not much signal. Everywhere there is flux and the reaction to it: the quest, sometimes violent, for national or religious identity. These alternate faces of globalization -- fluidity and tribalism -- define our frontier-dissolving world.
 But in all the movement back and forth, basic things shift. The world exists in what Paul Saffo, a forecaster at Stanford University, calls ''punctuated equilibrium.'' Every now and again, an ice cap the size of Rhode Island breaks off.
 The breaking sound right now is that of the end of the era of the white man.
 I'd been thinking about this at Dubai airport in the middle of the night, as the latest news came in from the United States of the bloody end to the mother of all spending binges. I was watching the newly affluent from other parts of the world -- Asians and Arabs principally -- spend their way through the early-morning hours.
 The West's moment, I thought, is passing. Money and might are increasingly elsewhere. America's little dose of socialism from Ben Bernanke and Hank Paulson might stave off the worst but cannot halt the trend.
 Then I arrived in Hong Kong. The talk was all about how U.S. economic woes could impact Chinese growth. Might it tumble to 8 from over 11 percent? And what of India, powering along with growth of a mere 8 percent or so?
 The West should have such troubles! Even revised downward, these growth rates are at levels Europe and the United States can only dream of.
 Decoupling -- another Hong Kong buzzword -- is not possible in an interlinked world: export-led Asian economies are vulnerable in some measure to U.S. troubles. But that measure dwindles as the Chinese, Indian and Vietnamese domestic markets explode.
 Asian statistics can be numbing. With one third of humanity, the numbers get big. There are now 450 million cell phones in China.
 But take another -- the likelihood that some 300 million people will move from rural to urban India in the next 20 years -- and you get a sense of the shifts underway. By 2030, India will probably overtake Japan as the world's third-largest economy behind the United States and China.
 But in the end, transformation is not about numbers. It's about the mind. Come to Asia and fear drains away. It's replaced by confidence and a burning desire to succeed. Asian business leaders are rock stars. The culture of education and achievement is fierce. China is bent on beating the U.S.A.
 What you feel in Asia, said Claude Smadja, a prominent global strategist, is ''a burst of energy, of new dreams, and the end of the era of Western domination and the white man.''
 Hong Kong purrs. Its efficiency and high-speed airport train make New York seem third-world. All the talk of Shanghai rising and Hong Kong falling was wrong: they're both booming. Mainland Chinese tourists come here in droves to play and spend. 
 I went to see Frederick Ma, Hong Kong's secretary for commerce. He's suave in that effortless Hong Kong way, the shrewdness wrapped in a soothing patter of bonhomie. How is it that this is the only place on earth where people think of what you want before you've thought of it yourself?
 He eased seamlessly from talk of mind-boggling infrastructure plans involving bridges and high-speed trains to a gentle lament for America.
 ''I am very worried about the U.S. economy right now,'' he said. ''When I was visiting last November, I asked a banker friend what's going on, and she told me that a Wall Street problem was soon going to be a Main Street problem.''
 Yep, it's a Main Street problem all right when people lose their homes and realize overnight they're illiquid and have 1930s visions as Bear Stearns goes ''Poof!'' in the night. 
 Everything passes. In the 17th century, China and India accounted for more than half the world's economic output. After a modest interlude, the pendulum is swinging back to them at a speed the West has not grasped.
 It's the end of the era of the white man; and, before it even began in earnest, of the white woman, too. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); TRENDS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (93%); IRAQ (88%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



787 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: A Nervous Wall St. Seems Unsure What's Next

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Most everyone on Wall Street, and on Main Street, wants to know when will the financial crisis end. So far, despite the government's efforts, the markets are whispering an answer that no one wants to hear.
 Even as the secretary of the Treasury, Henry M. Paulson Jr., prepares to lay out a blueprint on Monday to overhaul financial regulation and prevent future crises, signs of stress are evident deep inside the financial markets. 
 Stock prices are gyrating. The dollar hovers near low points against leading currencies. The credit markets remain unsettled. And traders keep buzzing that Bear Stearns, which was saved from the prospect of a bankruptcy filing through a takeover backed by the Federal Reserve, may not be the last Wall Street bank to run into trouble. 
 But the proposals from the Treasury to change financial regulation, which critics say are long overdue and do not go far enough, are aimed at the future and do not address the current turmoil. 
 The debate in Washington over what to do is entering a new phase, with more calls for broad help for homeowners to help prevent what some fear could be a severe recession.
 On Wall Street, it has been a grim first quarter. And in the next few weeks, big banking companies like Citigroup are expected to write down the already shrunken value of mortgage-linked investments further, sapping quarterly profit.
 The effort to rescue Bear Stearns has overshadowed distress in other corners of the financial industries.
 Last week, for example, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures bank deposits, said that a mortgage lender, Fremont Investment and Loan, had too little capital, and it ordered the company to recapitalize within two months. Also, the CIT Group, a lender to businesses, was forced to draw on $7.3 billion of emergency credit and said it would try to sell some assets to raise cash.
 And several large investment funds, including one affiliated with the Carlyle Group, a prominent buyout firm, have had large losses recently and risk collapse.
 Everyday stock market investors are having a tough time, too. The average diversified stock mutual fund has fallen 10.3 percent so far this year -- the worst quarterly showing in five years, according to analysts at Morningstar in Chicago. For some people, such reduced assets seem to sting even more as they confront the deepening housing slump.
 Market watchers hope that the Fed will inject enough cash to instill much-needed confidence. And there are signs that some things are improving. 
 Since the Fed stepped in to keep Bear Stearns from collapsing two weeks ago, it has been lending money directly to big investment houses in an effort to calm the jittery markets. It is also trying to shore up wobbly mortgage securities by letting Wall Street banks use those instruments as collateral to buy Treasury debt. 
 But what investors fear is that financial companies' pain will not end with the troubled mortgages, which by some estimates have already resulted in more than $200 billion of losses. Car loans, home equity loans, credit card debt, small business loans -- any of that might run into trouble as the economy stalls. 
 ''A year ago, we were told the problems were in subprime, '' said David Rosenberg, chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch, ''and what is becoming increasingly apparent is that the participation in the credit bubble was far greater than just that.'' 
 So while the Fed is easing credit, the markets are reluctant to follow suit. Banks are hoarding cash and are wary about lending money, even to one another. Part of the banks' unwillingness to lend reflects their own weakened condition, analysts say.
 As a result, mortgage rates remain higher than they might be, at around 5.9 percent for a 30-year loan. The rate at which banks borrow money from other banks in the London market, a widely used reference rate for short-term loans, rose to 4.47 percent on Friday, its highest level since December.
 Bond investors, the linchpins of the credit markets, are on edge, too. Many want to buy only the safest debt. Investors are demanding a premium of about 1.8 percentage points over United States Treasuries on mortgage bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae, the giant mortgage business.
 While that spread -- a measure of the risk that investors perceive in the Fannie Mae bonds -- has narrowed since early in the month, it is up sharply from a year ago. 
 ''Banks' appetite for risk has totally disappeared,'' said Peter Gumbel, a mortgage broker in Greenwich, Conn. ''Regardless of how much the Fed lowers rates, banks just can't price in enough of a premium to want to take a risk on some loans.'' 
 Borrowers with less than stellar credit scores or those trying to finance expensive houses are still struggling to get mortgages, Mr. Gumbel added.
 The Fed has reduced the benchmark short-term interest rate seven times since September, lowering it by a total of three percentage points, to 2.25 percent, and has made tens of billions of dollars available to Wall Street banks at low rates. 
 Yet that has not been enough to spur trading in arcane yet large arenas like collateralized debt obligations, which are pools of loans, and auction-rate securities, which are debt obligations typically issued by municipalities and nonprofit institutions on which the rates are set at regular auctions. 
 Nor have the Fed's moves squashed market rumors that another Wall Street firm, Lehman Brothers, could face the kind of bank run that toppled Bear Stearns.
 On Thursday, Lehman felt compelled to issue a statement calling the rumors ''totally unfounded.'' It blamed individuals or funds that had sold its stock short, which would result in a profit if the stock fell.
 At least one Wall Street analyst argued that fears about Lehman running out of cash were overblown, pointing to the firm's war chest of $34 billion and access to funds from the Fed. 
 The analyst, Prashant A. Bhatia of Citigroup, said in a research report Friday, ''It's tough to have a liquidity-driven meltdown when you're being backed by government entities that have the ability to print money.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: SIGNS OF STRESS: The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, weekly figures. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (54%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%); CIT GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); CG (NASDAQ) (54%); CIT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



788 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC SIGNALS The main economic event of the week will be the unemployment report for March, to be released on Friday. Employment is expected to fall by 40,000 jobs. 
 Other reports include the Chicago purchasing managers index for March (Monday), the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for March and February construction spending (Tuesday), the Automatic Data Processing payrolls forecast, and February factory orders (Wednesday) and the I.S.M. service index (Thursday).
 THE REGULATORS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will testify before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress (Wednesday).
 The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., will meet with Chinese leaders and speak at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing (Wednesday and Thursday).
 Frederic S. Mishkin, a Fed governor, will speak at a dinner in New York sponsored by the Center for Economic Policy Studies at Princeton University (Thursday).
 COMPANY REPORTS Reports will come from Best Buy, Micron Technology, Monsanto and Research in Motion (Wednesday); and Constellation Brands (Thursday).
 ET CETERA The Agriculture Department will report farmers' plans for planting corn, wheat and soybeans (Monday). Automakers will report March sales (Tuesday). The CTIA Wireless industry trade show takes place in Las Vegas (Tuesday through Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); TRADE SHOWS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (55%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (55%); MONSANTO CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (57%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%); MU (NASDAQ) (55%); STZ (NYSE) (55%); MON (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); HENRY PAULSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



789 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Optimism in Albany About Passing Budget on Time

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Legislative leaders and the Paterson administration said Sunday night that it was possible they could complete the state budget close to Monday's midnight deadline, a task that seemed all but unattainable just hours earlier.
 At the same time, the equally complicated and contentious plan to charge drivers a fee to enter the busiest parts of Manhattan inched closer to being voted on by the City Council and the State Legislature.
 A budget passed by the Legislature and delivered to Gov. David A. Paterson's desk near the deadline would be a significant victory for the new governor, who has had less than three weeks to broker a budget deal. It would be all the more welcome to Mr. Paterson and his administration considering he has spent much of his time in office so far deflecting embarrassing questions about his personal life. 
 The agreement came as quickly as it did partly because the state is confronting an unforgiving economic outlook, and there are few spare dollars to spread around. During the talks on Sunday, Mr. Paterson likened the state's financial situation to that of a family with a maxed-out credit card, telling the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Sliver ''we are over the limit,'' according to one person who sat in on the discussions.
 They were short on specifics, but Mr. Paterson, Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver emerged from the governor's office suite in the Capitol on Sunday evening and said they had agreed to keep spending growth for the fiscal year that begins on April 1 limited to about 4.4 percent more than the current budget. 
 That would leave the state with a total spending plan of $124 billion.
 ''We will start passing bills tomorrow in pursuit of meeting the deadline at midnight tomorrow,'' said Mr. Paterson, a Democrat. ''You're always racing against the clock in budget negotiations, but this time we're racing together against the clock.''
 Mr. Bruno, a Republican, who said hours earlier that the budget negotiations were proving to be very challenging, sounded confident as he stood with Mr. Paterson. ''We're there,'' he said.
 By late Sunday, deals were in place to resolve some of the most difficult issues that have vexed all three parties for weeks. According to officials who had been briefed on the talks, tentative agreements were reached to provide $1.8 billion in additional aid to schools across the state, of which $400 million would go to schools in New York City.
 Raises for state judges and legislators were not part of the deal, but an additional tax on cigarettes was. And the four prisons upstate that Eliot Spitzer proposed closing when he introduced his budget in January would remain open, the officials said.
 Adding another layer of complexity to the tense budget discussions, the Republican Senate majority introduced amendments to a bill that would put in place Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to charge drivers to enter parts of Manhattan. The amendments addressed concerns that legislators have voiced about the plan -- known as the congestion pricing plan -- and appear to have improved its chances of passing the Legislature.
 ''It's now more viable than it's ever been,'' said one senior official closely involved in the budget deliberations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because negotiations were continuing.
 The amendments to the Senate congestion pricing bill would, among other things, ensure that New Yorkers who are eligible for the low income tax credit be reimbursed for congestion pricing fees, and commit the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to contribute $1 billion over the next five years to the capital plan of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. In exchange for the $1 billion contribution, drivers crossing into Manhattan from New Jersey would pay the standard $8 toll and not an additional congestion fee.
 The City Council is expected to vote on the plan in the next few days. Approval from the Council would pave the way for the Legislature to act. 
 The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, issued a statement on Sunday that hinted a vote could come any day. ''I am increasingly optimistic that these developments will help make it easier for members of the Council to seize this important moment,'' she said.
 Still, the fate of the congestion pricing plan is uncertain in the Legislature. Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, blasted the Senate amendments, saying the plan ''remains an unfair regressive tax on the middle-income people from the outer boroughs.'' He added: ''The mayor's plan doesn't have the votes, and this won't get them.''
 In Albany on Sunday night, budget negotiators still had some major obstacles to overcome even as budget bills were being drafted and readied for the printer. 
 Some independent budget analysts questioned the wisdom of spending nearly double the rate of inflation, especially when many economists believe the country is already in a recession.
 ''They've tightened their belts some, but it hasn't been nearly enough,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission. 
 The speed with which Mr. Paterson and legislative leaders reached agreement on Sunday was the type of policy achievement that the Paterson administration and members of both parties in Albany were hoping they could deliver.
 ''This has been a very rocky time,'' said Assemblyman Jeffrion L. Aubry, a Democrat from Queens. ''I think the confidence that people have in us as an institution could use the reinforcement of an on-time budget.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, left, and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, told reporters they expected to have a budget by the end of Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); CLOSINGS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); JUDGES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



790 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Biography Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
The McCain campaign's first general election ad, released Friday, includes moving footage of him as a prisoner of war. What was Democratic Chairman Howard Dean's reaction? ''While we honor McCain's military service, the fact is Americans want a real leader who offers real solutions, not a blatant opportunist who doesn't understand the economy and is promising to keep our troops in Iraq for 100 years.''
 Most Americans want to be told we can leave Iraq sooner rather than later. McCain has chosen instead to tell Americans the hard and unpopular truths that we'll be there for a while, and that there's no sacrifice-free path to defeating our enemies and securing a lasting peace. This is ''blatant opportunism''? 
 The McCain ad must have alarmed Dean because McCain's biography is so much more impressive than Hillary Clinton's or Barack Obama's. McCain will spend this week trying to reinforce his biographical advantage, embarking on a ''Service to America'' tour to places associated with his own, and his family's, service to the country -- from McCain Field (named for his grandfather) near Meridian, Miss., to Annapolis, to two of his stateside Navy postings in Florida.
 This is a perfectly reasonable way for McCain to spend time while most of the country enjoys the Democrats' rollicking demolition derby.
 But here's something for the McCain campaign to remember: Democracies don't always elect the man who has done the most for his country.
 Consider our last four presidential elections. If voters had simply looked at the biographies of the major-party candidates, they would have chosen George H. W. Bush in 1992, Bob Dole in 1996, Al Gore in 2000 and John Kerry in 2004. Instead, they rejected four veterans who served in wartime (and who also had considerable experience in public life) for Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, who had lesser resumes, both civilian and military.
 Campaign consultants like to say elections are about the present and the future more than the past. To the degree they are about the past, they're about the very recent past: ''What have you done for me lately?'' But we don't even hear that question much anymore. Today's campaigns are designed to capture the present and imagine the future.
 One can lament this ''progress'' of modern democratic politics, away from rewarding real merit based on past achievement, toward a present-oriented shallowness and a future-oriented wishfulness. One can regret that in our day, historical memory is so short, respect for past accomplishments is so thin, and gratitude for service rendered is so lacking.
 But our ingratitude may be the flip side of a healthy hardheadedness, and our focus on the present the byproduct of a sensible pragmatism. When we elect a president, we're not giving a lifetime achievement award. We're choosing someone to govern for the next four years. The qualities of a young military hero may not be those of a successful president.
 McCain knows this. As an elected official, he's never rested on his P.O.W. laurels, remarkable though they are. He's been a major player in the Senate -- in foreign policy and military matters, and as a successful sponsor of (sometimes misguided) domestic reform legislation.
 As a presidential candidate, McCain is running, as one would expect, a substantive foreign policy campaign, as shown by his fine speech last week before the Los Angeles World Affairs Council. But with recession on the horizon, three-quarters of the American public thinking the country's on the wrong track, and the president and Congress at historically low approval levels -- shouldn't we be seeing more of McCain the domestic reformer?
 After all, what's going to happen this week as McCain travels around the country? The headlines are going to overtake the attempted focus on biography. At McCain's first press availability, he'll be asked about the fighting in Iraq, and about various plans for regulating Wall Street and addressing the housing situation. His answers to these questions will make more news than his prepared speeches.
 Candidate McCain should be working overtime on a broad reform agenda -- education reform, health insurance reform, tax reform, government reform, Wall Street reform. He could start by outlining an up-to-date, capitalism-friendly and transparency-requiring approach to regulating the credit markets. (He might also suggest taxing ''carried interest'' as ordinary income, if only to watch the fur fly among hedge-fund fat cats.) 
 As Obama and Clinton go at it over the next couple of months, McCain can ignore the Democrats and set forth his own policy agenda. His focus on substance could provide a nice contrast to their political bickering. And his policies, combining conservative principles with reformist energy, could contrast well with their stale liberal orthodoxy. Then Howard Dean will really be sputtering. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); VETERANS (73%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MERIDIAN, MS, USA (55%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



791 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Race and the Social Contract

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
In 1893, Friedrich Engels wrote from London to Friedrich Adolph Sorge, another German Communist then living in New York, lamenting how America's diversity hindered efforts to establish a workers' party in the United States. Was it possible to unify Poles, Germans, Irish, ''the many small groups, each of which understands only itself''? All the bourgeoisie had to do was wait, ''and the dissimilar elements of the working class fall apart again.''
 America's mix of peoples has changed in its 200-plus years. Yet when Barack Obama delivered his bracing speech on race, he was grappling with a similar challenge. ''Realize that your dreams do not have to come at the expense of my dreams,'' he said. ''Investing in the health, welfare and education of black and brown and white children will ultimately help all of America prosper.'' 
 It is a tall order. Ten years ago, William Julius Wilson wrote that American whites rebelled against welfare because they saw it as using their hard-earned taxes to give blacks ''medical and legal services that many of them could not afford for their own families.'' 
 As obviously sensible as Mr. Obama's proposition might be in a nation of as many hues, tongues and creeds as the United States, it struggles against self-defeating human behavior: racial and ethnic diversity undermine support for public investment in social welfare. For all the appeal of America's melting pot, the country's diverse ethnic mix is one main reason for entrenched opposition to public spending on the public good.
 Among the 30 nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a club of industrial countries, only Mexicans, Koreans and Greeks pay less in taxes than Americans, as a share of the economy. The United States also ranks near the bottom on public spending on social programs: 19 percent of the nation's total output in 2003, compared with 29 percent in Sweden, 23 percent in Portugal and almost 30 percent in France. 
 The Harvard economists Alberto Alesina and Edward Glaeser correlated public spending in Western Europe and the United States with diversity and concluded that half the social-spending gap was due to the United States' more varied racial and ethnic mix. The other half was mostly due to the existence of stronger left-wing parties in Europe. 
 Americans are not less generous than Europeans. When private charities are included, they probably spend more money for social purposes than Europeans do. But philanthropy allows them to target spending on those they personally believe are deserving, instead of allowing the government to choose. 
 Mr. Glaeser's and Mr. Alesina's work suggests that white Europeans support a big welfare state because they believe the money will probably go to other white Europeans. In America, the Harvard economist Erzo F. P. Luttmer found that support for social spending among respondents to General Social Survey polls increased in tandem with the share of welfare recipients in the area who were in their own racial group. A study of charity by Daniel Hungerman, a Notre Dame economist, found that all-white congregations become less charitably active as the share of black residents in the local community grows. 
 This breakdown of solidarity should be unacceptable in a country that is, after all, mainly a nation of immigrants, glued together by a common project and many shared values. The United States has showed an unparalleled capacity to pull together in challenging times. Americans have invested blood and treasure to serve a broad national purpose and to rescue and protect their allies across the Atlantic. 
 Still, racial and ethnic antagonism all too frequently limit generosity at home. In one study, Mr. Alesina, with Reza Baqir of the International Monetary Fund and William Easterly of New York University, found that the share of municipal spending in the United States devoted to social good -- roads, sewage, education and trash clearance -- was smaller in more racially diverse cities.
 While this tension manifests mainly along racial lines, it has broader ethnic, religious and even linguistic dimensions. A 2003 study by Julian Betts of the University of California, San Diego, and Robert Fairlie of the University of California, Santa Cruz, found that for every four immigrants who arrived in public high schools, one native student switched to a private school. 
 Politicians, from Richard Nixon to Tom Tancredo, have long exploited racial tensions. But there is nothing inevitable about ethnic animosities, as Senator Obama argued in his speech, which came at an important moment.
 Globalization presents the United States with an enormous challenge. Rising to the test will require big investments in the public good -- from infrastructure to education to a safety net protecting those most vulnerable to change. Americans must once again show their ability to transcend group interests for a common national cause. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CHILDREN (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHARITIES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LIBERALISM (64%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); RANKINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008



792 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2008

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Madison Avenue Sells S.U.V.'s. Can It Sell Climate Action?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Al Gore tries a new tool to inspire the public to act on global warming -- Madison Avenue. 

 BODY:
Daniel Schrag, a climate scientist at Harvard, once told me that two factors determine whether there will be meaningful action to limit global warming: public will and the relative cost of nonpolluting energy options and fossil fuels. You can work to raise public will to accept higher energy costs or improve technologies to lower the cost of clean energy (or both).
Former Vice President Al Gore is still banking on boosting public will. He has tried everything over the decades to mobilize people to aggressively curb emissions of greenhouse gases that climate experts say will lead to centuries of rising seas, ecological disruption and changing weather patterns. His tool kit has included congressional hearings, a worldwide speaking campaign, a portentous and prize-winning documentary, rock concerts and training retreats in which he has coached several thousand grassroots acolytes.
But worldwide emissions have continued to swell, driven mainly by blistering economic growth and coal burning in Asia; debate over a new climate treaty has stalled; lawmakers of both parties have not embraced legislation aimed at cutting emissions; and polls show the public still largely disengaged.
Now Mr. Gore is going Madison Avenue. He and a team are launching a three-year, $300-million climate ad campaign aimed at recruiting 10 million fervent followers willing to push for everything from strict laws capping emissions to aggressive programs for boosting energy efficiency. A link to the first ad is below. 
About $150 million has already been raised. The campaign rolled out beginning with a "60 Minutes" appearance by Mr. Gore on Sunday and a burst of news coverage Monday. The first ad, called "Anthem" and meant to portray global warming as an epic issue akin to civil rights, is posted online and will start running on television on Wednesday.
The ad also aims to sell the idea that global warming is America's problem to solve. Have a look and let us know what you think.
The ad campaign builds on a climate advertising contestMr. Gore initiated last year. 
Cathy Zoi, who heads the Alliance for Climate Protection, the group running the campaign, and is a former Clinton administration environmental aide, described the initiative last week at an Aspen Institute meeting on environmental issues. She said the goal is to replicate the marketing success of enduring public-service ad campaigns like the frying egg depicted as "your brain on drugs" and the 1971 advertisement featuring a tearful Indian regarding a polluted landscape.
Different ads will be focused on different markets and mesh with campaigning through organizations. All of the work, Ms. Zoi said, will reflect the science on climate and energy, but will try "to do better to mingle it with feelings."
"We hope it's a pretty integrated clever combination that eventually creates surround sound," she said. "So no matter where you turn you're getting a message that it's urgent but it's solvable."
But the challenge of cleaning up vivid environmental despoliation like untreated sewage and litter is far different than the challenge of building public support to move rapidly away from the unfettered burning of abundant fossil fuels providing more than 80 percent of the world's energy. Global warming, for most Americans, remains a very low priority. 
Ms. Zoi acknowledged the challenge, noting that the group's market research found that 38 percent of Americans remain "fearful and confused" about the issue and 18 percent do not believe humans are dangerously warming the world. She said about 35 percent of the public is engaged and aware of global warming and 9 percent are actively involved in pushing for legislation, lifestyle changes and the like. 
The goal of the campaign is to recruit "influentials," she said, describing this group as "people who talk to five times as many people a day as the typical person, who derive self esteem from having new information."
The alliance has developed partnerships with organizations as varied as the United Steelworkers and the Girl Scouts to build support. 
Groups opposed to restrictions on greenhouse gases have fired back with their own ad campaigns, most notably a video from the anti-regulatory Competitive Enterprise Institute that attacks Mr. Gore as an energy hog (in his mansion) who, they say, would needlessly raise energy costs.
In an interview with The Washington Post's environment reporter, Juliet Eilperin, Mr. Gore said action by the United States, including federal regulations and new policies, is the key to cutting global climate risks: 
"The simple algorithm is this: It's important to change the light bulbs, but it's much more important to change the laws," he said. "The options available to civilization worldwide to avert this terribly destructive pattern are beginning to slip away from us. The path for recovery runs right through Washington, D.C."
Polling and sociological research imply that Mr. Gore has his work cut out if he hopes to fit global warming into what experts call the "finite basket" of worries that most people routinely fill up with concerns about money and health. It's unclear whether words and images will move global warming from being a someday, somewhere issue into a peril sufficient to drive a social movement. Paul Hawken, one of the most effective green communicators I've met, told me late last year that this issue will still require an extraordinary kick from nature to shift society into gear.
How do you think this will play out?

        
Gore Pulls Slide of Disaster Trends
        
Regulators: 'Swindle' Climate Film Unfair but Not Harmful
        
Ending 'Carbon Emissions' (the Jargon)
        
Methane Bubbles, Farm Waste, Drilling Plans
        
Consumption, Climate, Creationism, Cartoons

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); WEATHER (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); POP & ROCK (54%) climate; environmentalism; Global Warming; gore; greenhouse gases; marketing; Media; Sociology; Gore, Al; Hawken, Paul; Energy Efficiency; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; United States Politics and Government; Energy Department; Washington (DC); Climate Change; Dot Earth

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department

PERSON: AL GORE (90%) Gore, Al; Hawken, Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

 
