

401 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: How High Should You Be On High-Dividend Stocks?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
STOCKS have made investors money for four years, but they have also made them nervous. Bonds have been a profitable alternative, but prices are so high that there could be risk in this presumed haven, and in any case yields are near record lows.
A popular third choice, stocks that pay big dividends, offers elements of both types of assets: growth prospects and regular income that is often higher than that of high-quality bonds. 
High-yield stocks have been valuable portfolio holdings for many decades. Research by Eugene F. Fama of the University of Chicago and Kenneth R. French of Dartmouth has found a strong correlation between a stock's total return and its dividend yield.
Investing with dividends in mind has been especially fruitful lately. It is not clear whether a desire to own high-yield stocks has raised their performance or the other way around, but SPDR S&P Dividend, an exchange-traded fund that specializes in them, produced a total return of 42.2 percent in the five years through last Friday, compared with 26.5 percent for SPDR S&P 500, an E.T.F. that tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
But have too many hopped aboard the bandwagon? High-yield stocks are often cheaper than the broad market because the sorts of companies that make large payouts tend to grow more slowly. The outperformance in recent years has pushed them to a premium, however; the dividend E.T.F. trades at 15 times earnings versus 14 for the S.& P. 500 E.T.F.
That has led some investment advisers to express concern that big dividend payers have grown expensive to the point of being risky. Others are inclined to trust the wisdom of the masses this time. They find much to recommend in high-yield stocks, but they urge investors to be selective and to judge companies by more than the amount of cash they dispense.
''In order to find a good dividend-paying company, you have to go beyond the dividend,'' said Robert Shearer, manager of the BlackRock Equity Dividend fund. A company has to have sufficient profits not just to pay the latest dividend, he explained, but also to expand the business so that it can pay future dividends, preferably in successively higher amounts. ''If companies don't have cash to invest in the business,'' he said, ''they won't have it to grow dividends, either.''
The ability to increase dividends is an advantage that stocks have over bonds, which have fixed coupons, and some companies raise their payouts year after year. Dividend growth is essential, in Mr. Shearer's view, because a stock's price tends to rise in line with the dividend. That can provide a bigger component of the total return over the long haul than dividend payments themselves.
An emphasis on dividend growth can shift the search for the best income-producing stocks away from the sectors most closely associated with high yields, like utilities and telecommunications. Mr. Shearer said he was finding better opportunities in industrial companies and providers of consumer products and services, in part because those segments of the market had not been bid up as much as the others.
''We think there's still value there, but you have to choose sectors appropriately,'' he said.
Joshua Peters, editor of the DividendInvestor newsletter published by Morningstar, likewise sees richer pickings in sectors not typically associated with strong payouts, like technology and other economically volatile industries. High valuations elsewhere became a deal-breaker for him.
''I trimmed some of the positions I had held for a while and thought highly of because they had gotten too expensive,'' he said, mentioning real estate investment trusts and tobacco companies in particular.
Robert T. Lutts, chief investment officer of Cabot Money Management, is put off by how expensive dividend stocks in general have become.
''It has almost gotten to the point where many of these stocks are priced at levels where investors aren't going to be happy with the results going forward,'' he said. ''They're priced at levels that exceed the growth profiles of the companies.''
Mr. Lutts considers valuations less stretched for foreign high-yield stocks. He recommends the Global X SuperDividend exchange-traded fund, which focuses on companies broadly dispersed geographically and commercially. The fund recently traded at just 13 times earnings and yielded 7.2 percent.
''It makes sense to take a global perspective,'' he said. ''There is less potential for price disappointment because the companies are involved in diverse economies and have strength in their industries.''
It may be harder to find reasonably priced dividend stocks, but Mr. Peters is confident that they will continue to appeal to long-term investors after the flow of money from short-term traders eases. Very low interest rates can persist only for so long; as rates rise, he said, the ability of companies to raise payouts will give stocks with healthy yields an edge.
The rapid rise in the number of people in or near retirement will also underpin dividend stocks as the need for income from all sources increases, Mr. Peters predicted.
''Demographic factors are causing a permanent shift in demand for income as a component of total return,'' he said. ''That's a trend that's not going away. Dividends are going to play a bigger and bigger role in investors' strategies over time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



402 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: The Biggest Financial Asset in Your Portfolio Is You

BYLINE: By JOHN F. WASIK

 BODY:
WHAT is probably your most important asset? Stocks? Bonds? Real estate? Collectibles? None of the above. It is human capital.
Although most of the focus in wealth planning is on financial assets, human capital is the one thing you can bring to the table that can have the most impact on your future. Yet few advisers stop to measure it fully and discuss its impact on your prosperity.
You have a surprising degree of control over your human capital, unlike the financial markets. You can switch jobs, obtain graduate degrees or simply work more as an independent contractor or partner in a professional firm. In contrast, you have no control over what stocks, bonds, commodities, real estate and other assets return every year. So consider human capital a measurable return on investment -- in yourself. 
The stodgy economist's definition of human capital is the net present value of lifetime earnings. This is what you will earn based on the skills, experience and talent you contribute to the labor market. For some, this is a fixed quantity, but in a dynamic world where people are increasingly shifting careers, working longer or pursuing ''encore'' careers, human capital is a moving target.
Yet estimating human capital is a bit like trying to guess your life expectancy. Life throws us a lot of curves and income gauges look easy to calculate as they emerge from a software program. Nevertheless, you need to do some projections of lifetime earnings, and potential changes in your income stream, to make a realistic, flexible and holistic financial plan.
Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance at Boston University and co-author of ''Risk Less and Prosper'' (Wiley, 2012), says it is essential to know your human capital factor because it ties into how much risk you can take in your financial portfolio. Mr. Bodie has been a pioneer in applying economic life-cycle theory to human capital decisions.
Some, with a fairly secure income over their career -- like college professors -- may take more risk in their portfolios, while others whose income is linked to cyclical industries may not. You can characterize your human capital like a stable bond or an insecure stock. This is one of the first steps in linking your human capital to how much risk you may take in your portfolio.
''I see myself, for example, as a convertible bond,'' Professor Bodie said. ''I'm protected by tenure at a solid university and have the potential to do extra things for income. I have a lot more capacity to take risk in my portfolio than I choose to use. I'm risk-averse, don't like to gamble and don't get a kick out of winning. I hate to lose.''
Noting that ''human capital is not a major asset for only a tiny fraction of the population,'' Professor Bodie said that lifetime earnings and portfolio management should be reframed as a way of insuring a standard of living and not a focus on obtaining the highest returns.
Figuring human capital into a prudent financial plan requires an attention to detail that most financial advisers may not be able to handle. Because most advisers are focused on managing money or picking investments, they may not be able to do the right calculations that are flexible enough to accommodate changes in income.
Paula Hogan, a fee-only certified financial planner based in Milwaukee, has been employing human capital and the life-cycle theory that underpins it into her business model for years. Like most planners, she carefully examines cash flow, expenses, income and her client's portfolio.
''A key insight of life-cycle theory,'' Ms. Hogan said, ''is that the consideration of human capital comes first and then portfolio management comes after that: financial capital is tailored to the human capital, not vice versa.''
Ms. Hogan also steps into the realm of ''life'' planning that merges human capital with various goals and changes in a person's journey. This raises a set of questions that go beyond numbers.
''What do you care about?'' Ms. Hogan said she asks clients. ''Do you have a vision of where you want to be?'' If they want to change, the questions become more focused on transition. ''How can we make a bridge? What about health insurance? Will you need a new family budget? Do you have family reserves (savings)? Is your spouse on board?''
Sometimes the transitions are modest, as for an executive at the top of his profession whom she counseled. He wanted to ''not go at full tilt'' and spend more time doing other things. Other, more radical moves, like a career change, will require more support. Ms. Hogan works with career coaches and counselors like Jane Schroeder of Brookfield, Wis., to manage the vocational piece.
As a master career counselor and board-certified coach with a background in educational psychology, Ms. Schroeder applies standard assessment tools like the Myers-Briggs personality test and talks with clients on future direction. She delves into their core strengths, competencies, emotional intelligence and ''brainstorms on possibilities.''
''What allows you to engage your human capital at the highest level?'' she asks clients. ''When were you at your best? What was happening? What was energizing?''
By re-engaging clients with the force that drives their ability to create, manage or earn money in a fulfilling way, Ms. Schroeder eases the transition that some need to make.
It is one thing to know if you need to make a change, but is that possible, given your financial situation? Will you have enough cash reserves to see you through a transition? Will a spouse or partner support your household while you make some changes or re-educate yourself?
Before you even make the decision to redeploy your human capital, you will need to run some numbers to see if it is possible. Online planning programs like ES Planner (esplanner.com) can give you some general ideas on what is possible given changing income and cash flow.
While these questions may be difficult at first, they may help you forge a satisfying new path. But you will need to take your time and do some detailed planning that may involve a paradigm change.
Your personal capital reserve and future earnings should drive your ability to make a change and not your portfolio return. That is a big leap for most, but a rewarding one if you are able to navigate it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



403 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: In Pursuit Of Taste, En Masse

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
AMERICANS didn't always ask so many questions or expect so much in their quest for enjoyment. It was enough for them simply to savor a good cigar, a nice bottle of wine or a tasty morsel of cheese.
Not anymore. Driven by a relentless quest for ''the best,'' we increasingly see every item we place in our grocery basket or Internet shopping cart as a reflection of our discrimination and taste. We are not consumers. We have a higher calling. We are connoisseurs.
Connoisseurship has never been more popular. Long confined to the serious appreciation of high art and classical music, it is now applied to an endless cascade of pursuits. Leading publications, including The New York Times, routinely discuss the connoisseurship of coffee, cupcakes and craft beers; of cars, watches, fountain pens, lunchboxes, stereo systems and computers; of tacos, pizza, pickles, chocolate, mayonnaise, cutlery and light (yes, light, which is not to be confused with the specialized connoisseurship of lighting). And the Grateful Dead, of course. 
This democratization of connoisseurship is somewhat surprising since as recently as the social upheavals of the 1960s and '70s connoisseurship was a ''dirty word'' -- considered ''elitist, artificial, subjective and mostly imaginary,'' said Laurence B. Kanter, chief curator of the Yale University Art Gallery. Today, it is a vital expression of how many of us we want to see, and distinguish, ourselves.
As its wide embrace opens a window onto the culture and psychology of contemporary America, it raises an intriguing question: If almost anything can be an object of connoisseurship -- and if, by implication, almost anyone can be a connoisseur -- does the concept still suggest the fine and rare qualities that make it so appealing?
There were probably Neanderthals who tried to distinguish themselves through their exquisite taste in cave drawings. But the word connoisseur was not coined until the 18th century -- in France, of course, as a symbol of the Enlightenment's increasingly scientific approach to knowledge.
At a time when precious little was known about the provenance of many works of art, early connoisseurs developed evaluative tools -- for example, identifying an artist's typical subject matter, use of color and use of light -- to authenticate works by revered masters and to debunk pretenders to the pedestal.
''Works of art do not carry a guarantee,'' said Dr. Kanter. ''It has always been the job of the connoisseur to question, investigate, refine the received wisdom of earlier generations.''
As the aristocracy declined and the bourgeoisie enjoyed new wealth, especially after the Napoleonic upheavals, the number of people who could afford art expanded, as did the types of art they were interested in. Connoisseurship grew in response to the need for authoritative guidance in a changing world. In the 19th century, connoisseurs helped reassess the works of forgotten artists, like Giotto, Fra Angelico and Botticelli, who are now considered canonical. They studied and appraised ignored forms like German woodcuts, French porcelain and English statuary.
Contemporary efforts to apply connoisseurship to a host of far-flung fields are consistent with this history. ''Our definition of quality continues to expand and mature,'' Dr. Kanter said, ''so it makes sense that we can talk now about connoisseurs not just of art but also of rap music, comic books and Scotch. Connoisseurship is not about objects; it's a process of thinking about and making distinctions among things.''
True connoisseurs -- and this is what makes the label so appealing -- do not merely possess knowledge, like scholars. They possess a sixth sense called taste. They are renowned for the unerring judgment of their discerning eye. They are celebrated because of their rare talent -- their gift -- for identifying and appreciating subtle, often hidden, qualities.
Despite its expanded applications, connoisseurship still revolves around art, if we define art broadly as things that are more than the sum of their parts because they offer the possibility of transcendence. We do not speak of connoisseurs of nature (which can transport us) or diapers (which are simply useful). But no one blinks when we apply the term to wine, food or literary forms like comic books, because these are believed to offer deeper experiences to those who can gain access to them. Generally speaking, almost anyone can become an expert, but connoisseurship means we're special.
If connoisseurship is a way of thinking, its rising popularity reflects the fact that people have so many more things to think about. ` Robert H. Frank, a professor of economics at Cornell whose books include ''Luxury Fever: Why Money Fails to Satisfy in an Era of Excess,'' noted that the British economist John Maynard Keynes worried during the 1920s and '30s that rising productivity would lead people to work less as it became easier to satisfy their basic needs.
''It's funny,'' Dr. Frank said, ''that someone as smart as he was didn't realize that we would invent a million new things to spend our money on and create higher and higher standards of quality for those products that would cost more and more.''
Hence the $5 cup of coffee and the $8 pickle.
In the dark ages before arugula, most supermarkets seemed to carry only one type of lettuce, iceberg, and apples were either green or red. In 1945, the average grocer carried about 5,000 products; today, that number is more than 40,000, according to Paul B. Ellickson, a professor of economics and marketing at the University of Rochester.
In addition, the Internet has made millions of other options just a mouse click away. Easy access to higher-quality products opens new avenues of connoisseurship -- gorau glas cheese is more interesting, more provocative, than Velveeta. But it also presents us with a mind-numbing series of choices. In this context, connoisseurship is a coping strategy. When we say we want ''the best,'' we winnow our options, focusing our attention on a small sample of highly regarded items.
Put another way, rising connoisseurship is a response to life in an age of information shaped by consumerism. As ideas increasingly become the coin of the realm, people distinguish themselves by what they know. An important way to demonstrate this is through what they buy.
It is a form of conspicuous consumption that puts less emphasis on an item's price tag -- craft beers aren't that expensive -- than on its perceived cachet. In hoisting a Tripel brewed by Belgian monks, the drinker is telling the world: I know which ale to quaff. As, in all fairness, he enjoys a very tasty beverage.
Ironically, many items celebrated as examples of connoisseurship -- handcrafted, small-batch, artisanal products -- are themselves a reaction against the mass production trends of the global consumer society that shapes us. Just as art connoisseurs authenticate paintings, others seek wines and cheese and cupcakes that seem mystically authentic.
''A lot of what gets called connoisseurship is really just snobbery,'' said Thomas Frank, who has dissected modern consumer culture in books like ''Commodify Your Dissent,'' which he edited with Matt Weiland, and ''The Conquest of Cool.'' ''It's not about the search for quality, but buying things that make you feel good about yourself. It's about standing apart from the crowd, demonstrating knowledge, hipness.''
The rub is that, as access to knowledge through a Google search has become synonymous with possessing knowledge, fewer and fewer people seem to have the inclination or patience to become true connoisseurs. How many people, after all, have the time to make oodles of money and master the worlds of craft beer, cheese, wines and everything else people in the know must know?
In response, most people outsource connoisseurship, turning to actual connoisseurs for guidance. ''Many people want the patina of connoisseurship on the cheap,'' said Barry Schwartz, a professor of social theory and social action at Swarthmore College. ''So they contract out the decision-making process. My guess is that a tiny fraction of people who are true connoisseurs of wine -- and there are some -- don't make enough money to buy a $500 bottle of wine.''
As Steven Jenkins, an expert on cheese and other products at Fairway Market in New York, recently told a reporter for The New York Times: ''The customer has no idea what he or she wants. The customer is dying to be told what they want.''
People have always relied on connoisseurs for guidance. What is different today is the idea -- suggested by journalists and marketers intent on flattering their customers -- that people can become paragons of taste simply by taking someone else's advice.
Dr. Schwartz said this could be a wise strategy. Consumers may not get the pleasures of deep knowledge, but they also avoid the angst. ''You get the benefits of discernment without paying the psychological price'' of having to make difficult choices and distinctions, he said. ''You're happy because you've been told what to get and don't know any better.''
This psychological dimension is essential to understanding connoisseurship, said Dan Ariely, a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University whose books include ''Predictably Irrational.'' While recognizing that a small handful of people are true connoisseurs, he said his experiments with people interested in wine revealed a startling lack of discernment.
In one experiment, Dr. Ariely asked people to taste and write descriptions of four wines. He waited 10 minutes and then gave them a blind taste test, asking them to match the wines to their descriptions. For the most part, they couldn't.
In another experiment, he used food coloring to make white wine appear red. The participants, he said, ''rated it highly in terms of tannins, complexity'' and other general characteristics of red wine.
Dr. Ariely's work dovetails with other experiments that have found, for instance, that many people cannot tell the difference between foie gras and dog food in blind taste tests.
Even connoisseurs have a hard time getting it right. Echoing a famous blind taste test of wines from California and France in 1976, known as the Judgment of Paris, nine wine experts gathered at Princeton University in 2012 to compare revered wines from France with wines from New Jersey that cost, on average, about 5 percent as much. Not only did the experts give vastly different scores for many of the wines, but they rated the Garden State wines on a par with their costly French counterparts.
Dr. Ariely said these results did not necessarily debunk the notion of connoisseurship. ''Whether we can actually tell the difference between cheap and expensive wine may be less important than whether we think that we can,'' he said. ''We might actually experience more pleasure when drinking an expensive wine, enjoy it more, because we're slowing down, savoring it, paying more attention to its qualities.''
Which, as it turns out, is a hallmark of connoisseurship.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (F1)
ONLY THE BEST: Top, a wine tasting in Beaune, France. Left, coffee from beans passed through an elephant's intestines
above, a 1952 Rolex. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMMANUEL FOUDROT/REUTERS
NARONG SANGNAK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); BEER & ALE (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



404 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Tech Can Help to Keep Up With the Big Money

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
ONE of the tax-fairness controversies in the presidential campaign last year grew out of the news that 33 of the wealthiest Americans paid little or no income tax in 2009, in part because they probably applied stock market losses to counter capital gains.
If they did, they now have plenty of less exalted company.
That tactic, called tax-loss harvesting, is one of several sophisticated financial techniques no longer confined to the ultrarich -- say, those making more than $200 million, with the means to deploy family offices or personal bankers to the task. Because of a combination of technology and entrepreneurship, people a rung or two down the wealth ladder -- with perhaps $250,000 to $10 million in investable assets -- can avail themselves of similar tools. Partly this is because technology has simplified and sped up the work for all income levels.
''Before, if you had a lot of money, you could have analysts doing all your calculations in a manual way, in Excel,'' said Mike Paulus, president of Addepar, a three-year-old firm based in Silicon Valley that offers digital sophistication in portfolio aggregation. ''Due to technology, we can democratize it,'' he said. 
The new products are a cut above the mass-market, do-it-yourself budgeting and retirement planning tools available online, often from mutual fund houses. Financial experts say the new approaches allow users to include more personalized and complex factors, like itemized tax deductions or the types of cars they hope to buy in retirement.
The techniques have grown over the last five years and now include comprehensive digital portfolio aggregation, a service offered by Addepar, and access to sophisticated investments, along with tax strategies like loss-harvesting. They are usually marketed to financial advisers and planners, rather than to the investors themselves.
The tax strategies, in particular, will become more important than ever, proponents say, now that, under new fiscal cliff legislation, capital gains taxes have risen and deductions have been scaled back for the better-off.
But the reliance on technology worries even some people who market the tools and advisers who use them. ''What's important is the conversation with the adviser,'' said Linda Strachan, senior vice president of product management for financial planning products at Zywave, a financial software provider based in Milwaukee. Zywave's clients are financial advisers whose clients, in turn, typically have $200,000 to $2 million in assets.
The new products are most prevalent in the areas of financial and retirement planning and are becoming more common in investment strategy.
Jacque LeFore, president of LeFore Consulting, a financial advisory firm in Portland, Ore., is using a Zywave program to adjust the tax and spending strategies of a pair of retired technology managers from Idaho, with about $800,000 in liquid assets, as they start collecting Social Security next year. He also uses a cloud-based product called eMoney for cash-flow planning and for aggregating investments and liabilities.
People with $50 million or $100 million in net worth have '' hired C.P.A.'s and attorneys to do more proactive planning like this,'' Mr. LeFore said.
Those in his clients' income range -- about $200,000 to $8 million in liquid assets -- cannot afford that kind of personalized advice, he said. Yet earlier planning tools were not sophisticated enough to handle all their investments.
Joel P. Bruckenstein, a consultant and newsletter publisher who specializes in the technology of financial planning, said a financial plan that took eight hours to produce five years ago could now be done in two or three.
Technological innovation has also made some of the most exclusive investments -- like hedge funds or their near equivalents -- available to smaller accounts.
In theory, hedge funds typically demand a minimum investment of $1 million, although even that amount cannot guarantee access to the best managers, who may be so popular that they have shut their funds to all but their close friends. But Maz Jadallah, a money manager in San Franciso, said he had built a portfolio that ''clones'' the strategies of top-performing hedge fund managers by tracking their specific holdings, which they are required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission every quarter.
The minimum investment in one of his AlphaClone accounts, which began in 2008, is $100,000, and his clients have $500,000 to $5 million in investable assets.
Of course, markets change, so planners must constantly readjust. That is where strategies like tax-loss harvesting come in.
In 2005, three financial advisers from different firms created an automated market-monitoring tool, which they later sold to TD Ameritrade, called iRebal, short for Intelligent Rebalancing. Rebalancing means that iRebal -- and rival products like Tamarac and RedBlack -- constantly buy and sell holdings to ensure that each person's account maintains its desired overall allocation to various asset classes, even as markets shift and particular stocks and bonds gain and lose value.
This strategy becomes even more complex when programs aim to do it in the most tax-efficient way.
Before these automated products were available, said J. D. Bruce, president of the wealth management firm Abacus Wealth Partners in Los Angeles, the process was so labor-intensive that his firm could handle only a monthly rebalancing for most clients. Now, it is done at least twice a week.
True, that still may not be up to the standards of the superrich. A family office ''has a team of people that's watching your portfolio every day, looking for rebalance opportunities and tax-loss harvesting,'' said Christopher J. Cordaro, one of the creators of iRebal and chief executive of RegentAtlantic Capital, a wealth management firm in Morristown, N.J. Perhaps a more automated tool will eventually help less wealthy investors catch up to that.
Most of these new tactics would not be possible without advanced technology, including crowdsourcing, cloud computing and ever-faster database analysis. In creating Addepar's framework, Mr. Paulus, the president, said, ''We borrowed how Google looks at the world and how Facebook looks at the world.'' In addition, the company collected ideas through open-source Web communities.
But many experts caution that personal, professional advice must still accompany such tools.
Mr. Bruckenstein, the newsletter publisher, said that even the snazziest computer programs were no better than the assumptions put into them regarding inflation, investment returns, interest rates, taxes and future earnings. ''Garbage in, garbage out,'' he said.
Mr. Bruce of Abacus, though, said that technology like iRebal actually improved the conversation with clients. Because what he calls ''the arcane underpinnings'' are so smooth, he said, ''now we can talk about the things that really matter, which are people's feelings around their money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FOR THE MERELY WELL-OFF: Jacque LeFore, president of LeFore Consulting, uses new software to adjust tax and spending strategies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX PLANNING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (86%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (70%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%)

COMPANY: ZYWAVE INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



405 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Why Buy a Condo You Seldom Use? Because You Can

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
In the ornate lobby of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, high heels clack across the marble floor, glasses clink at a bar in the corner, neatly dressed porters scurry back and forth, and the buzz of quiet conversation ripples through the room. But just around the corner, at the entrance reserved for residents of the Plaza's condominium apartments, the gilded lobby stands all but silent. Here, very few people come and go, because most of the apartment owners live someplace else.
''I would say 10 percent of the building are really full-time residents like myself, out of about 150 apartments,'' Joanna Cutler, a real estate broker who has lived in the building since 2007, said last week as she sauntered through long, empty hallways. 
''For the record,'' she said, after stepping off an elevator shared with a man in a suit and a woman with an enthusiastic bichon frisé, ''I have never seen those people before.''
Pieds-à-terre exist throughout the New York City condo market, a separate little world of vacation homes and investment properties. But the higher the price, the higher the concentration is likely to be of owners who spend only a few months, a few weeks or even just a few days each year in their apartments. This very costly form of desolation means that some of the city's most expensive residential buildings stand mostly dark, lonesome and empty on the inside.
''Our next-door neighbors were absolutely lovely, and we saw them maybe once a year,'' said a former resident at 25 Columbus Circle, the south tower of the Time Warner Center, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Most people don't actually live there.''
There are no reliable statistics on the number of pieds-à-terre in New York City, but real estate experts say that global economic jitters have drawn more and more astonishingly wealthy people into the market in recent years. They come from all over, whether Monaco, Moscow or Texas, looking for a safe place to put their money, as well as a trophy, and perhaps a second -- or third or fourth or fifth -- home while they're at it.
''It is a safe haven,'' said Jonathan Miller, president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. ''It's not coming from just one country; it's a global phenomenon.''
Scott Avram, an assistant vice president at Toll Brothers City Living, a company that builds luxury condos, said 40 percent of the buyers at the Touraine, a project at 65th Street and Lexington Avenue, were from foreign countries.
And the ultraluxury condo building One57 on West 57th Street, where two apartments are in contract for at least $90 million, has had billionaire buyers from Britain, Canada, China and Nigeria, as well as from America.
Then there is the $88 million crash pad at 15 Central Park West, bought last year by a trust linked to Ekaterina Rybolovleva, then 22 years old. Ms. Rybolovleva is the daughter of a Russian billionaire in the fertilizer industry, Dmitry Rybolovlev, who is in the middle of a rather expensive divorce. In a lawsuit filed last year, Mr. Rybolovlev's wife, Elena Rybolovleva, alleged that the apartment was bought not as a place for their daughter to live, but as a way to put that money out of the older Ms. Rybolovleva's reach. According to court documents, the younger Ms. Rybolovleva is a resident of Monaco.
The building at 15 Central Park West has its share of pieds-à-terre, real estate professionals say. But the concentration there is not as high as in other brutally expensive buildings, especially those in Midtown that share space and services with hotels, like the Plaza or the Time Warner Center, which shares a building with the Mandarin Oriental.
''I was living on the 16th floor, and I was pretty much the only one there,'' said Charlie Attias, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group who rented an apartment at the Plaza for three years and has handled many transactions in the building. ''We had the occasional visitor -- I mean, the occasional owner -- once in a while.''
''Actually, when we saw somebody, it was a big thing,'' he added. ''Oh wow, somebody's in my hallway!''
Scott Stewart, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group, sold five condos at Time Warner Center over about eight years. He has had buyers from London and Hong Kong, Minnesota, New Jersey and Texas -- and not a single one from New York. In all the times he has shown the building to prospective buyers, he added, he never saw more than one person using the condo's gym at a time.
''I've seen Kelly Ripa there,'' he said of the television star, who has since moved out. ''Two little kids were playing with Legos on the treadmill next to her, and there was nobody else.''
Elizabeth Lee Sample, a broker at Sotheby's International Realty and a member of the board that oversees the Time Warner complex, estimates that the condos in the south tower are generally about 60 percent occupied, while those in the north tower are only about 30 percent occupied, except during the holidays.
Nonetheless, a spokeswoman for Related Management, which manages the building, said it is staffed for full occupancy at all times, just in case.
Some residents, like Mr. Attias and Ms. Cutler of the Plaza, say the sparse population means extra privacy, lots of attention from the staff and very little noise. Mr. Stewart said he always pointed it out at Time Warner as a selling point.
Others, however, describe living in a deserted piggy bank as something else: lonely.
''I always said when I lived there that it felt very transient, and I wouldn't want to live in that type of building again,'' the former Time Warner resident said.
''The building I had come from was like living in a large dysfunctional family,'' the former resident continued. ''Maybe you hated them, maybe there was that aunt you didn't want to talk to at the holidays, but it was still nice knowing everybody.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many windows at the Plaza Hotel were dark last week. A real estate broker estimates that only 10 percent of its roughly 150 condominium apartments have full-time residents. (A23)
 One real estate broker said that in the Time Warner Center, he had dealt with condominium buyers from London and Hong Kong, Minnesota, New Jersey and Texas -- but never New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



406 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: TV Show Mirrors a Japanese Battery Maker's Bind

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- For many viewers in Japan, the plot of the television series ''Made in Japan'' was all too real: a struggling manufacturer, Takumi Electronics, turns to advanced lithium-ion batteries to reverse its ailing fortunes.
With the real-life manufacturer of Boeing's Japan-made batteries under intense scrutiny, the three-part series, which was carried by the national broadcaster NHK and showed its finale on Saturday, came at an angst-ridden time, and underscored the hopes that Japan had pinned on technologies like lithium-ion batteries.
As portrayed in the series, Takumi Electronics might as well be Japan Inc. itself. Takumi's lead in televisions and mobile phones has been eclipsed by more nimble upstarts in South Korea and China, echoing the fate of Japanese technology giants like Sony and Panasonic. The only hope the company has now lies in its advanced battery technology.
''These lithium-ion batteries took us years to develop, and our technological advantage won't waver so easily,'' the Takumi Electronics president says defiantly to reporters after yet another disastrous earnings presentation. ''We are betting on big growth in electric cars, and we are about to clinch some big deals.'' 
GS Yuasa, the real-life maker of Boeing's lithium-ion batteries, made a similar bet, one that has not yet paid off.
Fire and smoke in batteries aboard Boeing's next-generation Dreamliner have led to the grounding of all 50 of the planes while authorities around the world try to figure out the cause. On Thursday, the head of the United States National Transportation Safety Board, Deborah Hersman, said the fire seemed to have originated in one of the batteries, and faulted aviation officials for not anticipating the risks.
On Saturday and again on Monday, Boeing crews took a 787 on test flights to monitor the performance of the lithium-ion batteries. Both flights, Boeing said, were uneventful.
The recent troubles are hardly what GS Yuasa could have envisioned when it started making the batteries. In 2009, it started supplying the batteries for Mitsubishi Motors' i-Miev electric vehicles, billed as the first mass-produced, fully electric car. Everything seemed to go well at the beginning. GS Yuasa executives said in interviews three years ago that the company was struggling to keep up with inquiries pouring in from automakers.
But demand for the electric vehicles has not taken off. Last month, Mitsubishi Motors sold just 137 i-Mievs, and GS Yuasa's factories have been running at less than capacity.
That has marred plans at the company, which had hoped its lithium-ion technology would soon replace its older lead-acid batteries as its core business. GS Yuasa has still not turned a profit on its lithium-ion batteries, losing 3.26 billion yen, about $35 million, on the business last year despite directing the bulk of its capital investment to the technology, according to its annual report.
Enter Boeing and its next-generation 787 jet, which relies more than ever on electric systems and the batteries that power them. GS Yuasa won a contract in 2005 to supply Boeing with lithium-ion batteries through the French aviation electronics company Thales, and GS Yuasa has promoted aviation as a growth area that could make up for the disappointing electric vehicle market.
GS Yuasa's president, Makoto Yoda, had high ambitions, telling Kyodo News in late 2011 that he wanted to double sales of lithium-ion batteries to clients other than automakers within five years. By ''building on our track record in supplying Boeing,'' he said, the company aimed to open up new uses for the battery technology, including small jets and helicopters.
Advanced batteries are also crucial to wider Japanese industry at a time when the country remains stunned by how swiftly its once-dominant makers of semiconductors and flat-panel televisions have been overtaken by South Korean rivals. The culprit is commoditization, which made Japan's prized technology indistinguishable from everyone else's.
There is already fear that Japan's prized lithium-ion battery technology could go the same way.
Though Japan was long the world's dominant supplier of lithium-ion technology, led by Sony's first commercial lithium-ion batteries in 1991, rivals have largely usurped Japan's lead. The catch-up has been especially swift in smaller lithium-ion batteries, which have become increasingly common.
In 2011, Japan's global share had tumbled to about 35 percent, from more than 90 percent a decade earlier, according to Techno Systems Research, a market research company based in Tokyo. Over the same period, South Korean manufacturers overtook Japan with an almost 40 percent global share.
Still, Japan is determined to maintain its lead on larger lithium-ion batteries for cars and planes, which manufacturers here stress are more difficult to design and manufacture, and require the intense attention to quality and safety on which Japanese engineers pride themselves.
''Japan still has strength in larger lithium-ion batteries; that was supposed to be Japan's strength,'' said Kiyoshi Kanamura, a professor in applied chemistry at Tokyo Metropolitan University, who previously codeveloped lithium-ion batteries with GS Yuasa. ''That's why the Boeing battery fires are so shocking.''
The spotlight cast on GS Yuasa's batteries has been harsh. One GS Yuasa-made battery burst into flames onboard a parked 787 at Boston's Logan Airport last month, and another spewed smoke on a different 787 jet in Japan just 10 days later, forcing an emergency landing.
Late last month, Japanese officials said that on-site inspections at the factory that made the Boeing batteries, at GS Yuasa's headquarters in Kyoto, had uncovered no clues as to what may have gone wrong.
''Helping to build the 787 was supposed to demonstrate how Japan still leads the world in advanced, reliable technology,'' said Ichiro Takano, chief executive at TechnoAssociates, a consulting company based in Tokyo with expertise in batteries and renewable energy. ''But that will backfire if we don't get to the bottom of this quickly.'' GS Yuasa has long enjoyed a close relationship with the government. Genzo Shimadzu, the founder of the company that eventually became GS Yuasa, developed Japan's first lead batteries in 1895 on behalf of Kyoto Imperial University.
Those batteries, called GS batteries after their inventor, were used on battleships in the Russo-Japanese War, helping to power transmitters that allowed the ships to stay in contact. The Japanese handily defeated the Russians at sea in 1905.
GS Yuasa has received almost 17 billion yen (around $183 million) in Japanese government subsidies over the last three years. Through a program begun in 2009, Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has made 140 billion yen, or $1.5 billion, in direct subsidies to green technology companies, most of that to lithium-ion makers deemed to be capable of competing overseas.
For now, GS Yuasa has stressed that it does not expect any immediate impact on its sales or reputation from the 787 grounding. According to company executives, its sales of the lithium-ion batteries to Boeing have still only come to several hundred million yen, though sales are set to grow under GS Yuasa's multiyear contract with Thales and Boeing.
Last week, the company said that net profit for the nine months through December dropped slightly to 5.52 billion yen from 5.73 billion yen a year earlier. But it kept its full-year forecasts unchanged, at 8 billion yen net profit on 288 billion yen in sales.
''At this point, we have not sensed any damage to our reputation,'' Toshiyuki Nakagawa, a GS Yuasa director, told reporters in Kyoto.
A reputational blow is what Takumi Electronics, the fictional manufacturer in the drama series, also hopes to avoid as it teeters on losing its lithium-ion battery deal to a Chinese rival, a big embarrassment for any Japanese company.
In the end, the Chinese manufacturer loses its deal after a top engineer -- one it recruited from Takumi -- reveals that the batteries, as they stand, pose a fire risk. And in a last-minute deal, the two companies decide to team up to develop safer batteries, combining Japanese technological expertise with Chinese manufacturing prowess.
''Once revered around the world, Made in Japan products are now being forced to fight grueling battles,'' the narrator says in the final scene, set to booming orchestra music. ''But we cannot falter. We must fight on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing 787 landed in Seattle after an uneventful test flight Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BATTERY MFG (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); LEAD (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); CIVIL AVIATION (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (62%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); GS YUASA CORP (55%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 6674 (TSE) (55%); 7211 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS335912 PRIMARY BATTERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3692 PRIMARY BATTERIES, DRY & WET (55%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



407 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Where the Broadband Roams

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
AGATE, Colo. -- The bank is gone from this once-thriving ranching and farming community on Colorado's windblown eastern plain, as are the dairies, the hotel and the Union Pacific depot. The post office remains, at the corner of Main Street and First Avenue, the intersection of the town's two paved streets.
There is not much that is modern in Agate, except at the 11-student elementary school, which has three high-speed fiber optic Internet connections -- more than nearly every school in Denver, 70 miles to the west, and, for that matter, just about any school in the country. And it is something, the school says, that it doesn't need.
The latest chapter in Agate's recent broadband boom came thanks to the $4 billion Broadband Technology Opportunities Program, part of the Obama administration's 2009 economic stimulus effort. The aim of the grant program is to extend high-speed Internet access to parts of the country that had little or none of it because private companies said it was too expensive to build. 
''These investments have the potential to reshape our nation,'' said Lawrence E. Strickling, an assistant commerce secretary and the administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, which runs the federal grant program. ''We know that Americans who don't have access to the Internet are increasingly cut off from job opportunities, education resources, health care information and even government services.''
But local phone companies have complained about waste or unfair competition, like using some of the grants to build fiber networks where they already exist -- including, in Colorado, in the easily accessible eastern plains that include Agate -- rather than where they are most needed, in rural mountain towns.
Nationally, $594 million in spending has been temporarily or permanently halted, 14 percent of the overall program, and the Commerce Department's inspector general has raised questions about the program's ability to adequately monitor spending of the more than 230 grants.
In Illinois, for example, a $12 million broadband grant was sanctioned when a subcontractor was caught routing fiber optic cable through neighborhoods where its project engineers lived. A $39 million grant in Arizona was suspended over questionable expenditures on travel, transactions that appeared to involve conflicts of interest and other unbudgeted activities.
Broadband grants in Alabama and Louisiana, totaling $140 million, were terminated over undocumented expenditures and failure to adhere to construction plans and schedules. Four other grants, worth $42 million, returned the money before even getting off the ground.
Here in Agate, two high-speed connections already existed in the school, which had been teaching students from kindergarten through 12th grade. Now the oldest students are fifth graders, and the school says the high-speed fiber optic service is of little use and beyond its means. (It has requested bids for a slower-speed connection to replace it.)
Agate's third fiber optic connection was among the projects built with funds from a $100 million grant to an education consortium called called Eagle-Net. The grant has been suspended since December, when officials discovered that Eagle-Net had changed nearly all of its plans for wiring the state. Four months earlier, Eagle-Net was warned about questionable spending and lack of budgetary controls, according to Commerce Department documents.
Congress is preparing to take a closer look at the overall program. Representative Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican whose district includes Agate, said in an interview Monday that the House subcommittee overseeing the grant program was preparing for a hearing into possible program waste.
Eagle-Net says it has tried to work with the rural telecom companies. Gretchen Dirks, a spokeswoman, said several of the rural telephone companies now raising objections supported Eagle-Net's plans in the beginning.
Ms. Dirks also said Eagle-Net had not been avoiding mountain areas. ''The more difficult-to-reach areas of Colorado, due to diverse geographic and weather conditions, have been slated for completion in 2013 since the very beginning of the funding process,'' she said.
Obama administration officials say that the problem with certain grants, including Eagle-Net's, are being addressed. But it is misleading, they say, to focus on the 14 grants that have been suspended or terminated when most have been successful. (Five of the programs whose grants were suspended are back up and running.)
Among the more promising, Mr. Strickling said, were a $102 million program in Arkansas that has paid for high-speed video and data links between rural doctors' offices and the state university's medical center in Little Rock, and a $33 million grant to build a 1,000-mile fiber loop linking communities in rural northern Georgia to Atlanta.
Rural areas certainly suffer a lack of high-speed Internet access. While about 88 percent of urban households in the United States have access to high-speed cable Internet service, only 40 percent of rural households do, according to the Federal Communications Commission and the Commerce Department.
About 20 percent of United States households have access to fiber optic Internet service, the fastest connection, compared with 86 percent in Japan and two-thirds in South Korea. But the Eagle-Net experience in Colorado demonstrates that in the haste to get broadband everywhere, some grant planners appeared not to have taken into account the current condition of infrastructure.
Among the earliest fiber optic connections that Eagle-Net turned on, for example, was not in a remote, unserved area but in the Cherry Creek School District, located in a wealthy Denver suburb.
Ben Startzer, chief information officer for Cherry Creek schools, said in an interview that before Eagle-Net came to visit, the district already had a fiber optic connection that operated at 300 megabits per second -- 100 times faster than the average residential broadband speed. The schools didn't need the new network, Mr. Startzer said, but it allowed the district to nearly double its speed while increasing the network's backup redundancy.
A two-hour drive to the east, in Flagler, Colo., the 180-student public school, which serves prekindergarten through 12th grade, also recently got a third fiber optic connection, thanks to Eagle-Net, whose cable was installed underground within a few feet of fiber optic cables already laid by Eastern Slope Rural Telephone.
Eastern Slope's network was financed in part by an $18 million loan from the Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service -- which, unlike Eagle-Net's grant, has to be repaid.
''Here you have a quasi-governmental agency that has free federal money and is spending it to provide the exact same service that is already there, competing against companies that are borrowing federally backed money,'' said Senator Greg Brophy, a Colorado state legislator whose district covers a large swath of rural northeastern Colorado.
The types of local government institutions that Eagle-Net is focusing on are often the largest customers of the rural telecommunications companies, said Kevin Felty, president of the Colorado Telecommunications Association and president of Plains Cooperative Telephone.
Revenue from those larger entities supports affordable residential service in the area, he said.
Ms. Dirks of Eagle-Net said that if local institutions were happy with the service they already had, they would not have welcomed a new provider.
One of those enthusiastic about Eagle-Net is Brainstorm Internet, of Durango, Colo. Russ Elliott, president of Brainstorm, said connecting to Eagle-Net had allowed his company to offer substantially faster service that costs less to provide than before. ''They came in and said 'What can we do to help you get to these rural communities?' '' he said.
In Agate, however, Daniel Hollembeak, general manager of the Agate Mutual Telephone, whose headquarters are in a mobile home across a dirt lot from the school, said Eagle-Net's wiring of schools and other government institutions would drive companies like his further toward the brink.
''We employ local people,'' he said. ''If Eagle-Net takes away these institutions, it will have a big negative effect on the company.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fiber optic installation in Flagler, Colo. Some rural towns have no broadband, and some are getting more than they want. (B1)
 Kevin Felty, above, president of the Colorado Telecommunications Association and president of Plains Cooperative Telephone, and Daniel Hollembeak, general manager of Agate Mutual Telephone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) MAP: Agate, Colo., has three fiber optic connections for its 11 pupils, the oldest in fifth grade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



408 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Carpe Diem Nation

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Europeans who settled America gave their lives a slingshot shape. They pulled back so they could shoot forward. They volunteered to live in harsh conditions today so their descendants could live well for centuries. The pioneers who traveled West did the same thing. So has each generation of immigrants -- sacrificing the present for the sake of the future.
This slingshot manner of life led to one of those true national clichés: that America is the nation of futurity, that Americans organize their lives around romantic visions of what is to be. 
In 1775, Sam Adams confidently predicted that the scraggly little colonies would one day be the world's most powerful nation. In 1800, Noah Webster projected that the U.S. would someday have 300 million citizens, and that a country that big should have its own dictionary.
In his novel, ''Giants in the Earth,'' Ole Rolvaag has a pioneering farmer give a visitor a tour of his land. The farmer describes his beautiful home and his large buildings. The visitor confesses that he can't see them. That's because they haven't been built yet, the farmer acknowledges, but they already exist as reality in his mind.
This future-oriented mentality had practical effects. For decades, government invested heavily in long-range projects like railroads and canals.
Today, Americans have inverted this way of thinking. Instead of sacrificing the present for the sake of the future, Americans now sacrifice the future for the sake of the present.
Federal spending is the most obvious example. The federal government is a machine that takes money from future earners and spends it on health care for retirees. Entitlement spending hurts the young in two ways. It squeezes government investment programs that boost future growth. Second, the young will have to pay the money back. To cover current obligations, according to the International Monetary Fund, young people will have to pay 35 percent more taxes and receive 35 percent fewer benefits.
But government is not the only place you can see signs of this present-ism. Business has slipped into this pattern, too. C.E.O.'s serve short stints and their main incentive is to make quarterly numbers, not to build for the long term.
Banks can lend money in two ways. They can lend to fund investments or they can lend to fund real estate purchases and other consumption. In 1982, banks were lending out 80 cents for investments for every $1 they were lending for consumption. By 2011, they lent only 30 cents to fund investments for every $1 of consumption.
As Robert D. Atkinson and Stephen J. Ezell note in their book ''Innovation Economics,'' American firms are also lagging in their commitment to research and development. Between 1999 and 2006, for example, German firms increased research-and-development spending by 11 percent, Finnish firms by 28 percent and South Korean firms by 58 percent. During that same period, U.S. spending increased by a paltry 3 percent.
Increasingly, companies have to spend their money on retirees, not future growth. Last week, for example, Ford announced that it was spending $5 billion to shore up its pension program. That's an amount nearly equal to Ford's investments in factories, equipment and innovation.
Why have Americans lost their devotion to the future? Part of the answer must be cultural. The Great Depression and World War II forced Americans to live with 16 straight years of scarcity. In the years after the war, people decided they'd had enough. There was what one historian called a ''renunciation of renunciation.'' We've now had a few generations raised with this consumption mind-set. There's less of a sense that life is a partnership among the dead, the living and the unborn, with obligations to those to come.
The political debate, though, is largely oblivious to this mental shift. Republicans and Democrats are so busy arguing about the merits of government versus business that they are blind to the problem that afflicts them both.
In his State of the Union address Tuesday night, President Obama is apparently planning to give us yet another salvo in that left-right war, as he did in his second Inaugural Address. One of his aides, in a fit of hubris, told Politico that the president will be offering Republicans a golden bridge to ease their retreat.
But it would be great if Obama gave an imaginative speech that reframed things as present versus future.
If the president were to propose an agenda for the future, he'd double spending on the National Institutes of Health. He'd approve the Keystone XL pipeline. He'd cut corporate tax rates while adding a progressive consumption tax. He'd take money from Social Security and build Harlem Children's Zone-type projects across the nation. He'd means test Medicare and use the money to revive state universities and pay down debt.
Would Americans buy that agenda? Maybe. Americans are neglecting the future, but I bet they're still in love with it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); REAL ESTATE (74%); IMMIGRATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



409 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Mayor Seeks More Prison Time for Gun Crimes

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- On a day when the authorities here filed murder charges in a case that had come to represent the painful price of gun violence, Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Monday called on state lawmakers to increase minimum sentences for gun crimes in Illinois and require violators to serve the bulk of those prison sentences.
The push to increase minimum sentences for serious gun violations to three years in prison comes as one piece in a larger assortment of efforts -- including more mentoring, after-school activities, policing and early childhood education -- that Mr. Emanuel and other leaders here say they are advocating to stem gang-connected violence that contributed to more than 500 deaths in Chicago last year. 
The legislative proposal came not long before the Chicago police announced arrests in the killing of Hadiya Pendleton, a 15-year-old high school majorette who was fatally shot here a week after taking part in inauguration festivities in Washington. The two men arrested -- Michael Ward, 18, and Kenneth Williams, 20 -- had ties to a gang, the police said, and one of them had been convicted of a gun charge last year but was granted probation.
The death of Ms. Pendleton, who the police say had no ties to gangs and had once appeared in a video urging young people to stay out of gangs, has drawn new national focus to everyday urban gun violence, beyond the mass shootings that grab national headlines like those at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., and a movie theater in Aurora, Colo. The two men charged in the case mistakenly thought that Ms. Pendleton and a group of her friends who had gathered in a park on the city's South Side were members of a rival gang, the police said, and were seeking retaliation for an earlier shooting.
Ms. Pendleton's parents were expected to attend the State of the Union address on Tuesday as guests of Michelle Obama, who traveled to Chicago over the weekend to attend the girl's funeral. President Obama is expected to appear in Chicago on Friday, officials said, both to elaborate on the economic themes he plans to raise in the address and to talk about gun violence in Chicago and around the nation.
Mr. Emanuel, who served as Mr. Obama's chief of staff, said he welcomed the visit. ''We have to have the enforcement,'' he said. ''We have to have better gun laws. We have to have more investment in our children. But part of this is having an honest conversation, given that the lion's share of both the victims and the perpetrators are young African-American men. Who better to have that discussion than the president of the United States, who has repeatedly talked about fathering and the role of fathering?''
Compared with some other parts of the country, Illinois and Chicago laws regulating weapons are seen as relatively strict. Still, in a city that banned handguns until 2010 when a court overturned the ordinance, guns have been prevalent. More guns have been confiscated in recent months by the police here than in the nation's two larger cities, New York and Los Angeles. In just the first six weeks of the year, 809 weapons were seized here, the police superintendent, Garry F. McCarthy, said Monday, standing near a table covered in guns.
While some view Chicago's experience as evidence that gun restrictions fail to improve safety, others say it reflects a need for consistent federal restrictions rather than a patchwork of local and state laws, as well as for sentencing harsh enough to deter gang members.
Anita Alvarez, the Cook County state's attorney, said that gun offenders here sometimes get one-year sentences and may serve only about half of their sentences or even less.
Mr. Ward, who was charged with murder and attempted murder in the shooting that left Ms. Pendleton dead in a park not far from Mr. Obama's Chicago home on Jan. 29, in 2012 received a sentence of two years' probation, Superintendent McCarthy said, after being charged with unlawful use of a weapon. A mandatory prison sentence, the superintendent said, could have changed everything.
''We cannot continue to rely on laws that are not working and expect to see a different result,'' Ms. Alvarez said, urging the legislative changes that would require that those convicted in gun crimes to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIOLENT CRIME (92%); SHOOTINGS (91%); MURDER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); FIREARMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); GANGS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MEN (87%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); HOMICIDE (78%); PROBATION (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); GUN CONTROL (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (70%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MICHAEL J WARD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



410 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Tribute to Pope Goes Well With Milk

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
When Anthony Artuso heard the news of Pope Benedict XVI's resignation plans on Monday, what else could he do but order up a batch of pope cookies.
"So many people loved these cookies," Mr. Artuso said, referring to a round cookie bearing the pontiff's likeness that his family's bakery in the Bronx made when Benedict visited New York in 2008. "We still get calls asking for them, but we only made them during the pope's visit."
Artuso Pastry Shop made the cookie thick and round - five inches in diameter - from the same shortbread dough used for the two-tone bakery classic known as the black-and-white. 
"It's basically the same thing as a black-and-white, but we put the pope's photo on it," said Natalie Corridori, a manager at Artuso's.
Back in 2008, the bakery, on 187th Street in Belmont, made perhaps 500 of them, mostly to sell at Yankee Stadium when the pope celebrated Mass there. (At the time, Artuso's had a stand at the stadium, selling cookies during home games with players' faces on them.)
"They sold out almost immediately - they sold like hot cakes," Ms. Corridori said.
In fact, Mr. Artuso said essentially that the cookie was so perfect for the occasion that he had decided not to make it again. But given the momentous nature of the resignation, he decided to reprise the cookie. The price, $3.50 outside the stadium in 2008, has come down to $2 in the shop.
On Monday afternoon, things were hectic in the kitchen, where the staff had just finished a batch of similar cookies with Spider-Man's face on them for a little boy's party and an order had come in for a girl's birthday cake decorated to resemble a bottle of lip gloss.
Ms. Corridori had the bakers make a dozen cookies and apply moist icing to the top. She then selected an online photograph of Pope Benedict and used a special pastry printer, loaded with food-coloring "ink," to print his beneficent face onto round, thin sheets of icing that were then applied to the top of the cookies.
"I hate to take a bite out of the pope," she said, pulling one of the cookies in half to sample it.
Artuso's is one of many multigenerational Italian shops near Arthur Avenue in a neighborhood that was once heavily Italian. That has changed in recent years, as Albanians and Latinos have moved in.
Elsewhere in the neighborhood, shop owners were not exactly jumping on the pope-memorabilia bandwagon. The two main religious-item stores - Catholic Goods Center and Mount Carmel Catholic Book Shop, both on 187th Street, near Artuso's - closed in recent years.
At DeCicco Brothers Novelties on Arthur Avenue, there were still two Pope Benedict bobblehead dolls in the window, left over from 2008. Giovanna DeCicco, whose family owns the business, sensed a sudden economic opportunity when a reporter expressed interest in them.
"The price was $25, but now, I don't know," she said with a slight smile.
At Artuso's, Mr. Artuso said he was unsure how many cookies to stock.
"It's all happened so quickly," he said. "I think the neighborhood was really caught off guard. I know we were."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After Pope Benedict XVI announced he would step down, Artuso's bakery in the Bronx made cookies on Monday bearing his likeness, as it did when he said Mass at Yankee Stadium in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); BAKERIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RESIGNATION OF POPE BENEDICT XVI (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); RELIGION (73%); BOOKSTORES (70%); FOOD COLORINGS (65%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



411 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Militant Threats Test Pentagon's Role in Africa

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
NIAMEY, Niger -- Created five years ago to focus on training the armed forces of dozens of African nations and strengthening social, political and economic programs, the Pentagon's Africa Command now finds itself on a more urgent mission: confronting a new generation of Islamist militants who are testing the United States' resolve to fight terrorism without being drawn into a major conflict.
Some military and Congressional critics question whether the command is up to dealing with its dual mission, and some influential lawmakers warn that Africom, with its headquarters in Germany, is understaffed and poorly financed for challenges that include countering Al Qaeda's fighters in Mali, Islamic extremists in Libya, drug traffickers in West Africa and armed rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
The leader of the command, Gen. Carter F. Ham, must straddle the new and the old missions, as he demonstrated one day last month when he flew to the northern reaches of this largely desert nation to watch United States troops train Niger's fledgling border corps in basic skills to help combat Al Qaeda's branch in North and West Africa. Then, within hours, he was back here in the capital for an urgent secure phone call from Washington to weigh what kind of advanced military support or surveillance the Pentagon could provide a French-led operation to blunt an Islamist offensive in neighboring Mali.
''The command is searching to find the right balance between the press of current military operations and the vision of longer-term engagement, helping Africans develop greater capacity for themselves,'' said Christopher W. Dell, a former United States ambassador to Angola and Zimbabwe, who is General Ham's deputy for civil-military activities.
Africom has an annual budget of about $300 million and 2,000 employees worldwide -- an operation that Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee, calls ''an 'economy of force' effort.'' By comparison, the military's Central Command, which oversees Afghanistan and the Middle East, has a yearly budget of about $800 million and 5,000 employees.
With no assigned forces in the region except for those at a base in Djibouti, in the Horn of Africa, the command was caught napping last Sept. 11, critics contend, when it had no military forces poised to respond to the attack on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, that killed four Americans, including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. An independent review of the attack concluded that events had unfolded too quickly for any American forces to make a difference.
Still, controversy has dogged the command since its creation in 2008. Initial statements about its mission and scope of activity alarmed some African leaders and State Department officials, who feared that the Pentagon was trying to militarize diplomacy and development on the continent. These concerns led the command to set up its headquarters in Stuttgart.
The command's first boss, Gen. William E. Ward, left two years ago under a cloud. Pentagon investigators later found that General Ward had lavishly overspent on official trips. He was ordered to repay the government $82,000 and was forced to retire as a lieutenant general, a one-rank demotion.
Enter General Ham, who turns 61 this week and is the rare Army officer to have risen from private to four-star commander in a 40-year career. He has led troops in northern Iraq, overseen military operations at the Pentagon's Joint Staff and helped lead reviews into the Defense Department's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and the fatal shootings at Fort Hood, Tex.
His combat mettle was tested almost immediately. Within days of assuming command in March 2011, General Ham was leading the initial phase of the Libya air campaign, for which he earned high marks from his civilian bosses at the Pentagon and the White House.
But the general, who will retire this spring, acknowledged in one of three interviews during his recent trip to Niger that the command's ability to address the terrorist threat in Africa had been ''mixed.''
His grades? ''Pretty good'' in Somalia, where the Shabab, Islamist militants, have been dealt several setbacks in the past year. ''Less good'' in Libya, Mali and other parts of North and West Africa, where the United States is hunting Mokhtar Belmokhtar, a militant leader who claimed responsibility for the attack on a gas field in Algeria last month. And lacking in Nigeria, where an Islamist extremist group, Boko Haram, poses a major threat.
''Frankly, the intelligence community has not focused a lot on this part of the world,'' General Ham said. ''But we are starting to, out of necessity.''
With the war in Afghanistan winding down, senior Pentagon officials are scrambling to address the growing threat in North and West Africa by repositioning spy satellites and shifting surveillance aircraft from other theaters, all at a time when shrinking military budgets are forcing the Obama administration to make difficult choices on where to accept more risk.
The Pentagon is preparing to establish a drone base in Niger so that it can increase surveillance missions on the local Qaeda affiliate, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, and associated groups. Starting this year, the Africa Command will also send small teams from a 4,000-member brigade in Kansas to conduct nearly 100 exercises and training programs in 35 African countries.
''We're going to see more and more demands on Africom,'' Hillary Rodham Clinton, then secretary of state, said in January.
As for Benghazi, General Ham said he did not request any additional forces to be on hand in the region for the anniversary of the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, saying there was no specific intelligence indicating an imminent attack.
He acknowledged that ''knowing what I know now would I make different decisions? Absolutely.'' A special emergency force, which all combatant commands have but that the Africa Command did not until Oct. 1, now splits time between Europe and its base in Colorado. General Ham said he is drawing up plans to have other forces in Europe, West Africa or Djibouti ready to respond quickly to a crisis.
''Instead of responding in a day,'' he said, ''they could respond within some number of hours.''
But with the Obama administration wary of putting American boots on the ground, General Ham and his lieutenants are sticking to the philosophy ''African solutions to African problems.''
''The underlying ethos remains the same: We're not looking to be the security provider for Africa,'' said Mr. Dell, General Ham's deputy.
American training programs have not always worked. As insurgents surged across Mali's northern desert last year, United States-trained commanders of the country's elite army units defected at a critical time, taking troops, trucks, weapons and their newfound skills to the enemy.
A confidential internal review completed last July by the Africa Command concluded that there were critical gaps in the American training for Malian troops and senior officers.
''We've focused exclusively on tactical and technical,'' General Ham said in a speech in January in Washington. ''We didn't spend probably the requisite time focusing on values, ethics and a military ethos that says when you put on the uniform of your nation, then you accept the responsibility to defend and protect that nation, to abide by the legitimate civilian authority.''
In Niger, officials reached a status-of-forces agreement in January that clears the way for greater American military involvement in the country, including the drone base.
''The U.S. should do more in the area training, equipment, land and air, and intelligence capability,'' Niger's president, Mahamadou Issoufou, said in an interview. ''African countries face threats beyond their means.''
General Ham insists that the command can carry out both combat operations and its original ''soft power'' missions, taking cues from envoys in the region like Bisa Williams, the United States ambassador in Niamey.
Ms. Williams said the command responded to her request a year ago to help train Niger's troops to improve relations with its citizens. The command ended other practices at her request, like financing the purchase of T-shirts urging Nigeriens to vote, money that could be better spent elsewhere, she said in an interview.
''That's what I need from you,'' Ms. Williams recalled General Ham telling her later. ''I need for you to tell me if we're tone deaf or in the wrong lane.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gen. Carter F. Ham, the leader of the Africa Command. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIBAULT CAMUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Gen. William E. Ward, left, departed as Africa Command leader under a cloud, succeeded by Gen. Carter F. Ham in 2011. (POOL PHOTO BY MANDEL NGAN) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (54%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%); RELIGION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NIGER (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); MALI (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); ANGOLA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



412 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Slower Growth Of Health Costs Narrows Deficit

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A sharp and surprisingly persistent slowdown in the growth of health care costs is helping to narrow the federal deficit, leaving budget experts trying to figure out whether the trend will last and how much the slower growth could help alleviate the country's long-term fiscal problems.
In figures released last week, the Congressional Budget Office said it had erased hundreds of billions of dollars in projected spending on Medicare and Medicaid. The budget office now projects that spending on those two programs in 2020 will be about $200 billion, or 15 percent, less than it projected three years ago. New data also show overall health care spending growth continuing at the lowest rate in decades for a fourth consecutive year. 
Health experts say they do not yet fully understand what is driving the lower spending trajectory. But there is a growing consensus that changes in how doctors and hospitals deliver health care -- as opposed to merely a weak economy -- are playing a role. Still, experts sharply disagree on where spending might be in future years, a question with major ramifications for the federal deficit, family budgets and the overall economy.
Part of the slowdown stems from ''the recession and the loss of income and wealth'' causing people to cut back on health care, Douglas W. Elmendorf, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, said last week. But he added that a ''significant part'' of the slowdown ''probably arises from structural changes in the health care system.''
Some insurers have moved away from simply paying per procedure by giving health care providers financial incentives to reduce complications and rehospitalizations, for instance. Doctors, nurses and hospitals have also taken steps to reduce wasteful treatments. Many of the changes predate the 2010 health care overhaul, but the law has also contributed to the changes by offering some financial incentives, health care experts say.
Even if slower growth persists, the cost of health care poses one of the greatest threats to the country's fiscal health. It threatens to consume a larger proportion of the overall budget, meaning larger deficits, cuts to other programs, higher taxes or some combination of the three. Remaining on a lower cost trajectory would reduce the pressure on Democrats and Republicans seeking to put the country on a sounder fiscal path.
''We're not going from unsustainable to sustainable,'' said Jared Bernstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research group in Washington. ''Even if the recent changes persist, we're not done in terms of achieving sustainability in health care cost growth, but we have more time to figure out what's working without hacking away at social insurance,'' added Mr. Bernstein, a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
One sign that the slowdown might be lasting is that it seems to have started before the recession took hold and is continuing even as the economy picks up. ''The more we look at the data, the more it seems to me that the cost curve did bend before the recession,'' said Charles Roehrig of the Altarum Institute, a health care research organization. Additionally, health spending did not seem to decline or slow down more in states that were hit harder by the economic downturn, and it has flattened for Medicare patients, even though they tend to be sheltered from the effects of economic fluctuations.
''If you go out and talk to doctors and hospital executives, they believe their world is changing,'' said Peter Orszag, a former budget director in the Obama administration and now a vice chairman at Citigroup. ''Nothing in life is conclusive, but I think the case for this being at least partially structural is much stronger than the case for it being entirely cyclical.''
The slowdown has occurred in both government and overall health spending. From 2009 to 2011, total health spending grew at the lowest annual pace since the government started keeping records 52 years ago, a trend that seems to have continued last year. In the 2012 fiscal year, Medicare spending per beneficiary grew just 0.4 percent. The new Congressional Budget Office data said that overall Medicare outlays grew 3 percent in 2012, the slowest rate since 2000.
A major question raised by Mr. Elmendorf and others is whether the spending will accelerate again. (It slowed in the 1990s only to pick up again last decade.) ''There's a lot of reasons to suspect it's temporary,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office and a prominent Republican economist. ''Premature celebration never makes sense when it comes to health care,'' he added.
Slower cost growth would have ramifications far beyond the deficit. According to calculations by White House economists, slowing the annual growth rate of health care costs by 1.5 percentage points might increase economic output by 2 percent in 2020 and 8 percent in 2030. It might also lead to higher wages for workers and more room for productive investments in the budget.
Even if the slowdown continued, the deficit problem would hardly be solved, budget experts said. One situation described by the Altarum Institute imagines tax revenue at about 19 percent of economic output and health care spending growing about as fast as economic output did. Assuming a balanced budget, that would leave 6 percent of economic output for spending on defense, safety net programs and other nonhealth programs in 2035. The modern low is around 8 percent, Mr. Roehrig said.
''It is possible to keep the policies for those large benefit programs unchanged, but only by raising taxes substantially for a broad segment of population,'' Mr. Elmendorf said. ''Alternatively, it's possible to keep tax revenues at their historical average of percentage of G.D.P., but only by making substantial cuts relative to current policies in the large benefit programs that aid a broad group of people at some point in their lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Douglas W. Elmendorf of the Congressional Budget Office said health spending growth continued at its lowest rate in decades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); LIBERALISM (64%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (56%); JARED BERNSTEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



413 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Shooting in the Dark

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
The young men who opened fire at Columbine High School, at the movie theater in Aurora, Colo., and in other massacres had this in common: they were video gamers who seemed to be acting out some dark digital fantasy. It was as if all that exposure to computerized violence gave them the idea to go on a rampage -- or at least fueled their urges.
But did it really?
Social scientists have been studying and debating the effects of media violence on behavior since the 1950s, and video games in particular since the 1980s. The issue is especially relevant today, because the games are more realistic and bloodier than ever, and because most American boys play them at some point. Girls play at lower rates and are significantly less likely to play violent games. 
A burst of new research has begun to clarify what can and cannot be said about the effects of violent gaming. Playing the games can and does stir hostile urges and mildly aggressive behavior in the short term. Moreover, youngsters who develop a gaming habit can become slightly more aggressive -- as measured by clashes with peers, for instance -- at least over a period of a year or two.
Yet it is not at all clear whether, over longer periods, such a habit increases the likelihood that a person will commit a violent crime, like murder, rape, or assault, much less a Newtown-like massacre. (Such calculated rampages are too rare to study in any rigorous way, researchers agree.)
''I don't know that a psychological study can ever answer that question definitively,'' said Michael R. Ward, an economist at the University of Texas, Arlington. ''We are left to glean what we can from the data and research on video game use that we have.''
The research falls into three categories: short-term laboratory experiments; longer-term studies, often based in schools; and correlation studies -- between playing time and aggression, for instance, or between video game sales and trends in violent crime.
Lab experiments confirm what any gamer knows in his gut: playing games like ''Call of Duty,'' ''Killzone 3'' or ''Battlefield 3'' stirs the blood. In one recent study, Christopher Barlett, a psychologist at Iowa State University, led a research team that had 47 undergraduates play ''Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance'' for 15 minutes. Afterward, the team took various measures of arousal, both physical and psychological. It also tested whether the students would behave more aggressively, by having them dole out hot sauce to a fellow student who, they were told, did not like spicy food but had to swallow the sauce.
Sure enough, compared with a group who had played a nonviolent video game, those who had been engaged in ''Mortal Kombat'' were more aggressive across the board. They gave their fellow students significantly bigger portions of the hot sauce.
Many similar studies have found the same thing: A dose of violent gaming makes people act a little more rudely than they would otherwise, at least for a few minutes after playing.
It is far harder to determine whether cumulative exposure leads to real-world hostility over the long term. Some studies in schools have found that over time digital warriors get into increasing numbers of scrapes with peers -- fights in the schoolyard, for example. In a report published last summer, psychologists at Brock University in Ontario found that longer periods of violent video game playing among high school students predicted a slightly higher number of such incidents over time.
''None of these extreme acts, like a school shooting, occurs because of only one risk factor; there are many factors, including feeling socially isolated, being bullied, and so on,'' said Craig A. Anderson, a psychologist at Iowa State University. ''But if you look at the literature, I think it's clear that violent media is one factor; it's not the largest factor, but it's also not the smallest.''
Most researchers in the field agree with Dr. Anderson, but not all of them. Some studies done in schools or elsewhere have found that it is aggressive children who are the most likely to be drawn to violent video games in the first place; they are self-selected to be in more schoolyard conflicts. And some studies are not able to control for outside factors, like family situation or mood problems.
''This is a pool of research that, so far, has not been very well done,'' said Christopher J. Ferguson, associate professor of psychology and criminal justice at Texas A&M International University and a critic of the field whose own research has found no link. ''I look at it and I can't say what it means.''
Neither Dr. Ferguson, nor others interviewed in this article, receive money from the gaming industry.
Many psychologists argue that violent video games ''socialize'' children over time, prompting them to imitate the behavior of the game's characters, the cartoonish machismo, the hair-trigger rage, the dismissive brutality. Children also imitate flesh and blood people in their lives, of course -- parents, friends, teachers, siblings -- and one question that researchers have not yet answered is when, exactly, a habit is so consuming that its influence trumps the socializing effects of other major figures in a child's life.
That is, what constitutes a bad habit? In surveys about 80 percent of high school-age boys say they play video games, most of which are thought to be violent, and perhaps a third to a half of those players have had a habit of 10 hours a week or more.
The proliferation of violent video games has not coincided with spikes in youth violent crime. The number of violent youth offenders fell by more than half between 1994 and 2010, to 224 per 100,000 population, according to government statistics, while video game sales have more than doubled since 1996.
In a working paper now available online, Dr. Ward and two colleagues examined week-by-week sales data for violent video games, across a wide range of communities. Violence rates are seasonal, generally higher in summer than in winter; so are video game sales, which peak during the holidays. The researchers controlled for those trends and analyzed crime rates in the month or so after surges in sales, in communities with a high concentrations of young people, like college towns.
''We found that higher rates of violent video game sales related to a decrease in crimes, and especially violent crimes,'' said Dr. Ward, whose co-authors were A. Scott Cunningham of Baylor University and Benjamin Engelstätter of the Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim, Germany.
No one knows for sure what these findings mean. It may be that playing video games for hours every day keeps people off the streets who would otherwise be getting into trouble. It could be that the games provide ''an outlet'' that satisfies violent urges in some players -- a theory that many psychologists dismiss but that many players believe.
Or the two trends may be entirely unrelated.
''At the very least, parents should be aware of what's in the games their kids are playing,'' Dr. Anderson said, ''and think of it from a socialization point of view: what kind of values, behavioral skills, and social scripts is the child learning?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Craig A. Anderson, director of the Center for the Study of Violence at Iowa State, believes violence in media is only one factor in mass shootings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK KEGANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIMMY TURRELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); TRENDS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MURDER (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (65%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



414 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL HEALTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Chagas Disease Costs U.S. More Than Better-Known Illnesses

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Chagas disease may be obscure, but the economic burden it imposes on the world is greater than that of better-known diseases, like cervical cancer or cholera, according to a new study. Even in the United States, the authors said, the costs of Chagas are commensurate with those of more publicized diseases, like Lyme disease. 
(In the same league, perhaps, but not quite equal. In their study, published in Lancet Infectious Diseases, the authors calculated that Chagas cost the American economy $900 million a year. A 1998 study estimated that Lyme disease cost $2.5 billion.)
Chagas disease is caused by a trypanosome parasite transmitted by the bloodsucking ''kissing bug,'' which bites victims as they sleep. Transmission is endemic in much of Latin America, from central Mexico to northern Argentina. Kissing bugs have been found in the southern United States; the bugs tend to live in substandard housing and animal pens.
The parasites cause an initial flulike illness that can be cured if it is caught. But it is often not diagnosed, and the infection may become chronic. It may be silent for decades and then emerge as long-term damage to the heart or intestines. It can be fatal.
Up to 10 million people may be infected, many of whom have emigrated from Latin America seeking jobs in the United States, Canada and Europe -- especially Spain.
The authors, from the University of Pittsburgh and Baylor University, estimated the economic burden by trying to calculate the cost of hospitalization and care, including pacemaker implants, for those with heart damage or other organ failure. The costs vary by country, of course, with the United States being the most expensive.
The researchers then added estimates of ''disability-adjusted life years,'' a measure of how many years of healthy life are lost. They ''cost'' more when they are subtracted from the life of a working-age adult in a high-wage country than from a retiree or an infant in a poor country.
The authors estimate that the global burden of Chagas is about $7 billion a year. By comparison, the burden of cervical cancer -- a notorious killer of women, but almost only in poor countries, and usually as they age out of their working lives -- is estimated at below $5 billion.
The burden of rotavirus, a diarrheal disease that kills many babies but rarely endangers anyone over age 5, is estimated at $2 billion. (By contrast, lung cancer's burden is estimated at $83 billion a year, and breast cancer's at $35 billion.)
Many millions have been spent developing a rotavirus vaccine and on ways to fight cervical cancer in poor countries.
Knowing that Chagas is a serious economic threat could push policy makers to spend more money on developing vaccines against it, said Dr. Peter J. Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine and a co-author of the new study. Dr. Hotez is also president of the Sabin Vaccine Institute, which is doing research on Chagas vaccines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL DISEASES (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CANCER (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); CERVICAL CANCER (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (86%); LYME DISEASE (78%); VACCINES (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); VIRUSES (78%); LUNG CANCER (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BIOLOGICS MFG (62%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (54%); BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



415 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WELL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: The Price for a Hip Replacement? Many Hospitals Are Stumped, Research Shows

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Jaime Rosenthal, a senior at Washington University in St. Louis, called more than 100 hospitals in every state last summer, seeking prices for a hip replacement for a 62-year-old grandmother who was uninsured but had the means to pay herself.
The quotes she received might surprise even hardened health care economists: only about half of the hospitals, including top-ranked orthopedic centers and community hospitals, could provide any sort of price estimate, despite repeated calls. Those that could gave quotes that varied by a factor of more than 10, from $11,100 to $125,798. 
Ms. Rosenthal's grandmother was fictitious, created for a summer research project on health care costs. But the findings, which form the basis of a paper released on Monday by JAMA Internal Medicine, are likely to fan the debate on the unsustainable growth of American health care costs and an opaque medical system in which prices are often hidden from consumers.
"Transparency is all the rage these days in government and business, but there has been little push for pricing transparency in health care, and there's virtually no information," said Dr. Peter Cram, an associate professor of internal medicine at the University of Iowa, who wrote the paper with Ms. Rosenthal. He added: "I can get the price for a car, for a can of oil, for a gallon of milk. But health care? That's not so easy."
President Obama's Affordable Care Act focused primarily on providing insurance to Americans who did not have it. But the high price of care remains an elephant in the room. Although many experts have said that Americans must become more discerning consumers to help rein in costs, the study illustrates how hard that can be.
"We've been trying to help patients get good value, but it is really hard to get price commitments from hospitals - we see this all the time," said Jeff Rice, the chief executive of Healthcare Blue Book, a company that collects data on medical procedures, doctors visits and tests. "And even if they say $20,000, it often turns out $40,000 or 60,000."
There are many caveats to the study. Most patients - or insurers - never pay the full sticker price of surgery, because insurance companies bargain with hospitals and doctors for discounted rates. When Ms. Rosenthal balked at initial high estimates, some hospitals produced lower rates for a person without insurance.
But in other ways the telephone quotations underestimated prices, because they did not include the fees for outpatient rehabilitation, for example.
In an accompanying commentary, Andrew Steinmetz and Ezekiel J. Emanuel of the University of Pennsylvania acknowledged that there was "no justification" for the inability to provide estimates or for the wide range of prices. But they said that more rigorous data on quality - like infection rates and unexpected deaths - were required to know when high prices were worth it.
"Without quality data to accompany price data, physicians, consumers and other health care decision makers have no idea if a lower price represents shoddy quality of if it constitutes good value," they wrote.
But, broadly, researchers emphasized that studies had found little consistent correlation between higher prices and better quality in American health care. Dr. Cram said there was no data that "Mercedes" hip implants were better than cheaper options, for example.
Jamie Court, the president of the California-based Consumer Watchdog, said: "If one hospital can put in a hip for $12,000, then every hospital should be able to do it. When there's 100 percent variation in sticker price, then there is no real price. It's about profit."
Dr. Cram said the study did contain some good news: some of the country's top-ranked hospitals came up with "bargain basement prices" in response to repeated calls. "If you're a good consumer and shop around, you can get a good price - you don't have to pay $120,000 for a Honda," he said.
But that shopping can be arduous in a market not set up to respond to consumers. To get a total price, Ms. Rosenthal often had to call the hospital to get its estimate for on-site care, and a separate quote from doctors. And many were simply perplexed when she asked for a price upfront, Ms. Rosenthal said, adding, "The people who answered didn't know what to do with the question."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (88%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RANKINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (91%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



416 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: An Alternative to the Ratings Agencies

BYLINE: By DONALD J. JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The news that the U.S. Justice Department has filed civil fraud charges against the largest credit ratings agency, Standard & Poor's, for behavior that it alleges contributed to the cataclysmic financial crisis will be cheered by millions who have suffered from the subprime mortgage disaster.
But will a lawsuit, successful or not, help correct the problems of the major ratings agencies that have failed to pass the test of professional credibility, upon which senior members of the financial sector on Wall Street relied? 
While many people in the financial sector were blinded by greed to the need for deeper analysis and due diligence on what were later exposed as unworthy credit instruments, there remains a potentially more destructive role these agencies play: the rating of sovereign debt. Imagine the domino effect of a sovereign debt downgrade forcing governments, many already beleaguered by servicing public debt, to impose further hardship on a citizenry because of some faceless unaccountable number-crunchers within a ratings agency -- people who are removed from the real world that they assess.
When the United States was downgraded in 2011, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner declared that the ratings agency showed ''really terrible judgment'' and a ''stunning lack of knowledge about basic U.S. fiscal budget math,'' adding that ''they drew exactly the wrong conclusion.''
Falling interest rates in European countries like Italy and Spain suggest that lenders may have become skeptical about the presumed wisdom of the ratings agencies. How could they not, given the central role these agencies played in the financial crisis, sometimes offering investors a triple-A rating on what was essentially financial garbage?
There are many villains besides ratings agencies in this tragedy, which has cost millions of people their homes and financial security, yet few of the perpetrators have paid any tangible price. In the words of the journalist and economist Anatole Kaletsky: ''The economics profession must bear a lot of the blame for the current crisis. If it is to become useful again it must undergo an intellectual revolution -- becoming both broader and more modest.''
Whatever the outcome of possible lawsuits against the private ratings agencies, surely there is an inescapable conclusion: They cannot and must not be relied upon to assess the capacity of sovereign states to meet their obligations.
They will undoubtedly continue to do so, but their credibility has been impaired to the point where there must be an alternative. What could it be? An intergovernmental capacity to rate sovereign debt. Is that possible?
An example is the O.E.C.D. Export Credit Arrangement with a country ''risk classification.'' It allows the establishment of minimum premium interest rates for country credit risk. It has been widely acclaimed by participating countries, and has largely leveled the field in terms of export-credit financing, where for many years the financing facility offered by an exporter often made an inferior product more attractive.
At present, the Export Credit Arrangement is not a substitute for sovereign risk classifications of the private ratings agencies, nor does it pretend to be. But it illustrates how effective and objective governments can be in assessing one another on the basis of a much broader range of social, political and economic expertise than private agencies could ever hope to acquire.
It is not a great stretch of the law nor of the imagination to foresee the creation of a truly credible sovereign debt ratings agency under the umbrella of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development or the International Monetary Fund, or a combination of the two. It could also be totally independent and report to the G-20.
There is such a need, and it is urgent.
Donald J. Johnston is a former secretary general of the O.E.C.D., former senior cabinet minister in Canada, and senior counsel at the Heenan Blaikie law firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SOVEREIGN RISK (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); COUNTRY RISK (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); EXPORT PRICES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



417 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: French Plan to Add to Already Lengthy School Days Angers Parents and Teachers

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
PARIS -- For more than a century, the lengthy school days of French children have been punctuated by a midweek day off, in recent decades for most children on Wednesdays, originally created for catechism studies.
The long hours and peculiar weekly rhythm have been criticized as counterproductive to learning and blamed for keeping women out of the full-time work force, as well as widening inequalities between rich and poor because of the demands they place on working parents. Yet the Wednesday break has remained a fulcrum of French family life.
With all that in mind, the government of President François Hollande recently issued a decree introducing a half day of school on Wednesdays for children 3 to 11 starting in September, while reducing the school day by 45 minutes the rest of the week. In a country with a broad consensus in favor of shortening a school day that typically runs from 8:30 a.m. to at least 4 p.m., and sometimes longer, Mr. Hollande's government still did not expect the plan to be controversial. It has not worked out that way. 
Instead, the edict has incited a wave of protest from France's powerful teachers unions, parents associations and city governments, which say it was produced without their consultation, is short on details and fails to address deeper concerns about the middling performance of French schoolchildren compared with their peers in other industrialized countries. Thousands have taken to the streets in recent weeks in protest.
''The difficulties facing our students and our schools need pedagogical responses,'' said Sébastien Sihr, general secretary of France's national union of primary schoolteachers. ''We have to put an end to this magical thinking that just stretching the school week over four and a half days will improve students' performance.''
France's peculiar school week dates to the creation of free universal public schools in 1882, under the famed education minister Jules Ferry. In a concession to the Roman Catholic Church, which until then had played a leading role in French primary education, the law reserved one day a week for religious instruction.
In today's secular France, however, children of means spend their Wednesdays at music, sports or language lessons, while poorer families scramble for child care or place their children in subsidized public ''leisure centers.'' For many parents -- particularly women -- the default solution is a part-time job.
Despite their four-day week and nearly four months of vacation, French children spend more hours in class than most of their European counterparts: 847 hours a year for third graders, for example, compared with 750 hours on average for children elsewhere in the European Union. (In the United States, the average for students of all ages is around 950 hours.)
Yet, a 2009 assessment of high school students in 65 countries by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ranked France 21st in reading, 22nd in math and 27th in science. Dropout rates are on the rise, and nearly 40 percent of French 15-year-olds have repeated at least one grade -- three times the O.E.C.D. average.
''This is the only country I know where the adults work 35 hours a week, but they expect their kids to work more,'' said Peter Gumbel, a British journalist and a professor at the Institut d'Études Politiques in Paris, also known as Sciences Po, who wrote a withering critique of France's education system in 2010. ''French kids are spending considerably more time sitting at their school desks than the average for outcomes which are generally worse.''
He and other critics of the government's plan say that its emphasis on a shorter school day fails to address more fundamental concerns, like how and what French children are taught, how best to allocate limited education resources and how to recruit and retain better teachers.
Much of the problem, education experts say, is that France's centralized primary school curriculum is overly focused on rote learning that discourages creativity and critical thinking. Fifty-nine percent of lessons for 7- and 8-year-olds are devoted to reading comprehension and math skills, compared with an average of 48 percent across the O.E.C.D. While standards for academic performance are high, teachers are given little flexibility to adapt their lessons to their students' needs.
Expectations for far-reaching education reform were high after Mr. Hollande -- who has promised to hire 60,000 new teachers over five years despite France's mounting budget crisis -- narrowly won the presidency last May. But by choosing first to confront the four-day school week, Mr. Hollande, some politicians fear, risks alienating voters at a time when his approval ratings are hovering around 44 percent.
Under the plan, the hours of instruction are to be reduced by 45 minutes on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, though it is being left up to municipalities to decide whether to extend the lunch break or tack on 45 minutes of recess or other activities at the end of the day.
''This reform is so sensitive because it touches on people's personal lives,'' Mr. Sihr, of the teachers union, said. The new government ''had gold in their hands, and they are in the process of turning it into lead.''
Compounding the government's trouble in its efforts to sell the plan is that it was drafted with little input from teachers, parents or local governments. Those affected said they learned about the plan's details from interviews that Vincent Peillon, France's education minister, gave to the French news media.
''The whole thing started off very badly,'' said Valérie Marty, president of the Federation of Parents of Public Schoolchildren, France's largest parents' association. ''We weren't asked our opinion beforehand.''
In an interview, Mr. Peillon, a former philosophy professor, dismissed the backlash as a measure of the decree's reach. ''You can always judge the magnitude of change by the resistance it provokes,'' he said. ''We have a habit in this country of always looking for excuses, but France needs to move forward.''
Yet he conceded to early missteps in communication, and has begun holding town-hall-style meetings across France aimed at soothing tensions.
Still, some wonder if the minister's efforts have come too late. A one-day walkout by more than 90 percent of Paris elementary schoolteachers last month was followed by a march of several thousand teachers and parents in protest of the plan. Unions have warned of more nationwide action and scheduled another strike for Tuesday.
Opponents include scores of small-town mayors, who will be required to set aside additional money from their own budgets to provide extended after-school programs because of the shorter school day. Despite an offer of an extra $335 million from the national budget to municipalities this year, only a handful of major cities -- including Paris, Dijon and Strasbourg -- have publicly committed to making the change.
Conversely, a growing number of communities have said that they will seek dispensation to postpone the changes until September 2014. The Education Ministry has agreed to accept such requests until March 31 and, according to French news media reports, half or more of municipalities may ask for the delay.
Mr. Peillon would not predict what percentage of schools he expected to make the change this year. ''It is not my role to be either an optimist or a pessimist,'' he said. ''My job is to explain this reform as best as I can and to convince people to make the change sooner rather than later.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A kindergarten class in Firmi, France. Most students have Wednesday off, but the French government wants to add a half day of school for 3- to 11-year-olds starting in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC CABANIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A teacher in Paris holding a sign, ''NO to the reform of class hours, YES to school reforms,'' during a protest last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS SAMSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); PARENTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); CITIES (51%); CITY GOVERNMENT (51%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



418 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Watching Obama For Signs Of Change

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On Tuesday night, the president will address the nation and Congress on the state of the union. But many will watch as well for signs of the state of Barack Obama.
Inside the White House and out, advisers and associates have noted subtle but palpable changes in Mr. Obama since his re-election. ''He even carries himself a little bit differently,'' said one confidant who, like others, asked not to be identified discussing the president. He is relaxed, more voluble and even more confident than usual, these people say, freer to drop profanities or dismiss others' ideas -- enough that even some supporters fear the potential for hubris.
A man who attended a meeting in December between Mr. Obama and business executives was struck by the contrast with a tense and perfunctory session months before the president was re-elected. ''To say he was a different person is too strong, but he was someone who has won a second term and isn't going to run again,'' said the man, a Republican. ''This was a relaxed, engaged president who very genuinely wanted to connect.'' 
As the president prepares to outline his second-term agenda, it is clear from these personal accounts as well as his public acts, like his bold Inaugural Address, that he has shown an assertiveness, self-possession, even cockiness that contrasts with the caution, compromise and reserve that he showed for much of his first term.
What is not so clear is whether Mr. Obama can parlay this commanding self-assurance -- borne of re-election, hard lessons learned and Republicans' disarray -- into victories as he tries to turn Washington away from its obsession with deficit-cutting to a broader progressive agenda. Or will he overreach, alienate some Americans and cement the partisan divide he once promised to bridge?
Mr. Obama is said to be aware of the risks, though among his remaining aides it is not plain who might confront him at any danger signs. And Democrats say that the president, like many of them, believes Republicans are more vulnerable to overstepping politically by obstructing his agenda.
So far Mr. Obama has carried the day. Even before his swearing-in, he had staked battle lines on taxing the wealthy and raising the federal debt limit and gave little ground, forcing Republicans to retreat. On Tuesday night, in the House chamber, he will be in their faces, setting the agenda on immigration and gun safety -- issues that were unthinkable only two years ago, when Republicans had just triumphed in midterm elections -- and defining a debt-reduction strategy that not only cuts spending but also raises revenues to allow government investments in programs for the middle class and small businesses.
''Obama is feeling his oats,'' said Donald A. Baer, a former aide to President Bill Clinton and now the chief executive of the communications firm Burson-Marsteller.
''I think he probably believes he was cautious and hemmed in by one thing or another in the first term, and he's decided he's going to do more of what he really wants and be who he really is in the second term,'' Mr. Baer said.
With the crisis that defined his first term behind him, and the economy growing, if slowly, the legacy-minded Mr. Obama seems almost liberated at being given more time for unfinished business like immigration and climate change, and new issues like gun safety, say those who have met with him.
Perhaps most altered is his approach toward Republicans. Mr. Obama largely bypassed them when Democrats controlled Congress, and then sought compromise once Republicans won control of the House, only to have the emboldened party refuse most deal-making with him.
Now the president is defining a third stage in the relationship: He has the upper hand after voters chose his vision of government's role and responsibilities over the opposition's, and he is extending it on his terms. He is counting on Republicans to join hands when they see issues -- like immigration -- where cooperation is in their party's own political interest.
But in responding, Republicans are weakened by postelection divisions. Indeed, they again will have two responses to the State of the Union address -- the official one by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and another from Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, the Tea Party designee.
Republicans are left hoping that Mr. Obama, like second-term presidents before him, will somehow stumble and lose leverage with time. They take heart that the party without the White House typically gains Congressional seats in midterm elections, as Republicans did in 2010. But after two years running the House, they and their agenda are far less popular going into 2014.
''Within the limitations of a still-polarized electorate, Obama is in surprisingly strong shape with the electorate,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. ''People generally like the more assertive approach to leadership -- it feels like he is more in charge and in command, which is what people want from a president.''
Republicans hardly see it that way.
''Since the election, he's pursued, in my estimation, a strategy that has been intentionally polarizing,'' said Peter Wehner, formerly a senior policy adviser to President George W. Bush, now a senior fellow at the conservative-leaning Ethics and Public Policy Center. ''What I'll be interested in is if the State of the Union speech is simply the latest link in President Obama's polarizing chain, or whether it signals a new interest in working with Republicans.''
While polls consistently show that Mr. Obama's positions are more popular than Republicans', that is not true in many of the Republicans' districts and states. House conservatives have already shown that they will not always support legislation from their own leader, Speaker John A. Boehner, let alone from a president their constituents dislike.
And as Mr. Obama acknowledged to House Democrats last week at a legislative retreat, even some Democrats from swing districts and states will oppose him on gun regulations and a path to citizenship for people who came here illegally.
He also confided to the Democrats his awareness of the balance to be struck between command and compromise.
''It's important not to read too much into any particular political victory,'' the president said. Then he added, ''It's also important for us to feel confident and bold about the values we care about and what we stand for.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



419 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Mayor's Office, Quinn Turns Her Attention to Income Inequality

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Christine C. Quinn, confronting an emerging theme among her rivals in the Democratic mayoral primary, proposed an affordable housing plan and a middle-class tax break on Monday, in an acknowledgment that not all New Yorkers have prospered equally under the Bloomberg administration.
But in striving to present herself as a champion of the middle class -- a group she referred to more than 40 times in her hourlong State of the City speech -- Ms. Quinn was also seeking to head off criticism from other Democratic candidates that she, as City Council speaker and a close ally of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's, shoulders some of the blame for the growing income inequality of the last few years. 
It is a delicate dance for Ms. Quinn, who has cultivated support from real estate and corporate leaders and who often works closely with Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire whose status makes him a symbol of the very inequality Ms. Quinn is now accused of abetting.
But her speech did not shy from the task. Rather than shifting to topics like policing strategy, education or the city's response to Hurricane Sandy, Ms. Quinn called for ways to promote employment in boroughs outside Manhattan and extend a child-care tax credit to families earning under $150,000 a year.
''We will keep New York City what it has always been,'' Ms. Quinn said, in a line that was met with applause. ''A place where opportunity is given, not just to those who can afford to buy it, but to those willing to work for it.''
It did not take long on Monday for her opponents to resume their assault. Bill de Blasio, the public advocate and another Democratic candidate for mayor, issued a sharp riposte minutes after Ms. Quinn's address had ended, blasting the speaker for working with the mayor to obstruct policies ''that would make a real difference to the lives of working families.''
''Strengthening and expanding the middle class requires more than lofty words,'' Mr. de Blasio wrote.
If she is feeling the pressure, Ms. Quinn showed few signs of it on Monday, when she took the stage in the City Council chambers to thunderous applause after remarks from her 86-year-old father, Lawrence Quinn, who often introduces her at major events.
She characterized her commitment to economic opportunity as an outgrowth of her family's history, citing her grandfather's rise from immigrant laborer to owner of a small business. Pointedly, Ms. Quinn described her grandfather's aspirations as ''a dream not that he would own a penthouse on Park Avenue, but that his children would have better opportunities than he did.''
Ms. Quinn took pains to cite her successful collaborations with the mayor, among them programs related to middle-class housing. But she also noted that the City Council had recently sued the mayor over a homeless services program.
In a likely preview of how she will present her candidacy to voters, Ms. Quinn repeatedly described herself as an experienced lawmaker with a track record of results, ''not of words and criticisms'' -- a thinly veiled dig at her opponents.
The speaker's proposals included an incentive program for private developers to create or retain middle-income apartments in exchange for tax credits, which would require approval from the State Legislature. Ms. Quinn also pledged to build 40,000 affordable apartments in the next decade, a plan that would be partially financed by purchasing bonds at low interest rates.
Ms. Quinn is expected to formally announce her candidacy for mayor next month, joining a Democratic field that is likely to include not only Mr. de Blasio, but also the former comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., and the current comptroller, John C. Liu. The Democratic nominee, who will most likely be chosen in a September primary, will face the nominees from other parties in November; the Republicans will also have a contested primary this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine C. Quinn delivered her State of the City speech on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CHILDREN (71%); CHILD CARE (66%); HURRICANE SANDY (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



420 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Here's the Start of Your Tax Troubles

 BODY:
This month, one of the most despised institutions of American government turns 100: the permanent income tax. It was born of war. In 1861, at the start of the Civil War, Congress passed a temporary income tax. In 1862, the tax was expanded and made progressive. After the war, pressure grew to reinstitute the tax as inequality surged. It took the approach of another bloody encounter -- World War I -- for lawmakers to make it permanent in 1913, after the 16th Amendment was ratified. But by 1918, only about one in six families paid income taxes. With the outbreak of World War II, the government had to finance a military buildup. Income tax revenue climbed to 9.4 percent of gross domestic product in 1944 from 0.9 percent in 1940. It now equals about 8.3 percent of G.D.P. Politicians are preparing to scrub the tax code clean, perhaps even scrapping the income tax and replacing it with a consumption tax. That plan might prove even more unpopular than the income tax itself.
FEATURES OF THE 1913 FORM 
Earlier deadline The current deadline of April 15 came into place in 1954.
Avoiding double taxation The 1913 tax code specifically avoided what is sometimes called ''double taxation,'' where businesses pay taxes on their profits and then their shareholders pay taxes when those profits are distributed to them, for example in the form of dividends. From the 1910s through the 1950s, dividends went mostly tax-free.
High standard deduction A high ''specific exemption'' of $3,000 for an individual (about $69,000 in today's dollars),or $4,000 for a married couple ($92,000) meant that very few Americans owed income taxes at the outset.
Brackets The top tax bracket has started at wildly different points over the years. Currently, a worker pays the top tax rate of 39.6 percent on income above $400,000 a year. In 1913, a worker paid a top tax rate of 7 percent on income above $500,000 a year, about $11.2 million in today's dollars.
Progressive taxation The ''supertax,'' as it was called in 1913, was not so super at first, a 6 percent surtax on top of a standard 1 percent tax rate. The progressivity of the code has waxed and waned over time, with top rates as high as 94 percent. President Franklin D. Roosevelt proposed, but failed to pass, a 100 percent tax bracket in the 1940s.
The honor system In the early years of the income tax, it was mostly up to individuals to report their earnings and write a check, if need be. The government instituted withholding during World War II.
Business income Since the tax code was initially geared toward wealthy investors and proprietors, many of the 1913 instructions seem more applicable to business owners than to families at the kitchen table.
Capital gains In 1913, capital gains were taxed at the same base rate as ordinary income. Lower rates on capital gains, meant to encourage investment, were not introduced until 1922.
Personal debt The tax code originally made all forms of interest deductible. But in 1913, there was no such thing as a credit card, and few families mortgaged their homes. In 1986, Congress got rid of the interest deduction for most consumer debt, but kept it for mortgage interest.
Deductible losses A year after the sinking of the Titanic, uninsured losses from shipwrecks were expressly deductible. That remains true today, and the government has expanded the loss and theft provision over time. In 2009, for instance, it issued guidelines to ensure that the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme could deduct losses.
If you are American, you pay U.S. taxes Since 1913, the United States has been one of only a handful of countries that tax the income of citizens living abroad. Most countries use a ''territorial'' system, taxing any income earned within the country's borders, regardless of who earns it.
The marriage penalty From the outset, being married did not mean tax bliss: the standard deduction for a husband and wife living together was lower than the sum of what their individual standard deductions would be if they were single.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A tradition begins: The introduction of the income tax was soon followed by lines of filers at the United States Customs House in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
The income tax was not the only way to finance World War I. Liberty Bonds did too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF U.S. NATIONAL ARCHIVES) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); WORLD WAR I (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



421 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: S.B.A. Chief Announces Resignation

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
Karen Mills, the administrator of the Small Business Administration, announced her resignation on Monday.
Ms. Mills became increasingly visible as a messenger of the Obama administration, which has been eager to present itself as relentlessly pursuing an entrepreneurial agenda. She helped lead the administration's Startup America program, which seeks to foster entrepreneurship through initiatives by the government and commitments from business leaders and private institutions. In January 2012, President Obama elevated the position of the agency's administrator to his cabinet. 
In a statement from the White House, Mr. Obama thanked Ms. Mills for her service. "I asked Karen to lead the Small Business Administration because I knew she had the skills and experience to help America's small businesses recover from the worst economic crisis in generations - and that's exactly what she's done," he said. "Because of Karen's hard work and dedication, our small businesses are better positioned to create jobs and our entire economy is stronger."
The administrator, in turn, praised her staff. "Four years ago, when I arrived at the S.B.A., America's small businesses and entrepreneurs were struggling in the face of the worst economic environment since the Great Depression - and a banking sector that was frozen," Ms. Mills wrote in a memo. "Together, we rolled up our sleeves and went to work."
She will remain at the agency's helm until the Senate confirms her successor. A White House spokesman would not say when President Obama would name the new candidate.
Ms. Mills, who was a venture capitalist before she joined the agency in 2009, did not say what she planned to do next.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); JOB CREATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



422 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Here's the Start of Your Tax Troubles

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
This month, one of the most despised institutions of American government turns 100: the permanent income tax. It was born of war. In 1861, at the start of the Civil War, Congress passed a temporary income tax. In 1862, the tax was expanded and made progressive. After the war, pressure grew to reinstitute the tax as inequality surged. It took the approach of another bloody encounter -- World War I -- for lawmakers to make it permanent in 1913, after the 16th Amendment was ratified. But by 1918, only about one in six families paid income taxes. With the outbreak of World War II, the government had to finance a military buildup. Income tax revenue climbed to 9.4 percent of gross domestic product in 1944 from 0.9 percent in 1940. It now equals about 8.3 percent of G.D.P. Politicians are preparing to scrub the tax code clean, perhaps even scrapping the income tax and replacing it with a consumption tax. That plan might prove even more unpopular than the income tax itself.
FEATURES OF THE 1913 FORM 
Earlier deadline The current deadline of April 15 came into place in 1954.
Avoiding double taxation The 1913 tax code specifically avoided what is sometimes called ''double taxation,'' where businesses pay taxes on their profits and then their shareholders pay taxes when those profits are distributed to them, for example in the form of dividends. From the 1910s through the 1950s, dividends went mostly tax-free.
High standard deduction A high ''specific exemption'' of $3,000 for an individual (about $69,000 in today's dollars),or $4,000 for a married couple ($92,000) meant that very few Americans owed income taxes at the outset.
Brackets The top tax bracket has started at wildly different points over the years. Currently, a worker pays the top tax rate of 39.6 percent on income above $400,000 a year. In 1913, a worker paid a top tax rate of 7 percent on income above $500,000 a year, about $11.2 million in today's dollars.
Progressive taxation The ''supertax,'' as it was called in 1913, was not so super at first, a 6 percent surtax on top of a standard 1 percent tax rate. The progressivity of the code has waxed and waned over time, with top rates as high as 94 percent. President Franklin D. Roosevelt proposed, but failed to pass, a 100 percent tax bracket in the 1940s.
The honor system In the early years of the income tax, it was mostly up to individuals to report their earnings and write a check, if need be. The government instituted withholding during World War II.
Business income Since the tax code was initially geared toward wealthy investors and proprietors, many of the 1913 instructions seem more applicable to business owners than to families at the kitchen table.
Capital gains In 1913, capital gains were taxed at the same base rate as ordinary income. Lower rates on capital gains, meant to encourage investment, were not introduced until 1922.
Personal debt The tax code originally made all forms of interest deductible. But in 1913, there was no such thing as a credit card, and few families mortgaged their homes. In 1986, Congress got rid of the interest deduction for most consumer debt, but kept it for mortgage interest.
Deductible losses A year after the sinking of the Titanic, uninsured losses from shipwrecks were expressly deductible. That remains true today, and the government has expanded the loss and theft provision over time. In 2009, for instance, it issued guidelines to ensure that the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme could deduct losses.
If you are American, you pay U.S. taxes Since 1913, the United States has been one of only a handful of countries that tax the income of citizens living abroad. Most countries use a ''territorial'' system, taxing any income earned within the country's borders, regardless of who earns it.
The marriage penalty From the outset, being married did not mean tax bliss: the standard deduction for a husband and wife living together was lower than the sum of what their individual standard deductions would be if they were single.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A tradition begins: The introduction of the income tax was soon followed by lines of filers at the United States Customs House in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
The income tax was not the only way to finance World War I. Liberty Bonds did too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF U.S. NATIONAL ARCHIVES) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); WORLD WAR I (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



423 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2617 words

HEADLINE: The 1040 Blues

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
EVEN those who closely followed the numbing, eye-glazing and, at times, frustrating so-called fiscal cliff drama of late December -- and people could be forgiven for tuning it out because it coincided with New Year's Eve -- find themselves trying to figure out the best angles through the tax increases wrought by the deal. And if they are not scratching their heads now, wait until April 2014, when they could see a drastic increase in their tax bill.
Consider these two situations.
First, a person has income of $350,000, which is under the $400,000 threshold that sets off the highest marginal income tax rate and an increase in the capital gains tax to 20 percent, from 15 percent. That income is, however, sufficiently high that the Medicare surcharge of 0.9 percent on wage income and 3.8 percent on investment income has been applied. If that person sold a large amount of Apple stock, with over $1 million in capital gains, would those gains be taxed at the lower or higher capital gains rate? 
In the second case, a person has an annual salary of $100,000 and sells a home that she has rented out for years. Having owned it for several decades, she has capital gains of $400,000. Would the person pay 15 percent because her wage income is under $200,000? Or would she pay various and higher rates because her total income would be $500,000, pushing it through the thresholds for the Medicare surcharge and higher capital gains rate?
Both situations came from a real estate developer in Baltimore, who asked not to be named because he ''did not want to come across as gaming the U.S. Treasury.'' Far from gaming the system, he was asking questions many Americans should be asking now to prevent a surprise come 2014.
In the first situation, the person would qualify as rich under the new tax structure and end up paying more, as President Obama intended. But the less-well-off person in the second situation is the one who really loses, because her tax bill would have been much lower had she sold the rental property last year.
To an accountant, the questions about tax liability are straightforward, but the answers may surprise people not used to such calculations. Both cases deal with how taxes are stacked on top of one another. That hasn't changed: taxes on wage, or ordinary, income come first, with capital gains taxed on top of that. Then come the details of the new rates and the variables of individual cases.
Robert Keebler, a certified public accountant with his own firm in Green Bay, Wis., said that in the first example, the large capital gain in a stock sets off the higher tax rates. The first $50,000 in capital gains would be taxed at 18.8 percent, while all the capital gains above the $400,000 threshold for the highest capital gains rate would be taxed at 23.8 percent (both rates include the Medicare surcharge).
The second example is more complicated, he said, because the owner of the rental house would have been able to deduct improvements made to the house over the years, although the same stacking of taxes would apply. But even this hypothetical $100,000 wage earner would have to pay the Medicare surcharge over $200,000 in income -- even though it was both earned income and capital gains. And everything over $400,000 is subject to the higher capital gains tax as well. She would also lose some percentage of her deductions.
Mr. Keebler cautioned people against rash reactions to such new tax realities. ''You have to let common sense prevail,'' he said. Even with capital gains taxed at 20 percent, he said, ''you still get to keep 80 percent of the value. You may want to hedge things, but you don't want to put off selling things because of taxes.''
But answers like this, while logical to an accountant, might not dissuade worried investors from choices that could sidetrack their long-term investment goals. Some investments driven by tax avoidance that have drawn attention since the year-end fiscal deal could cost people taxes in other ways, while some work for people at certain ages but not at others. Some that promise tax savings could deliver them at the cost of a total loss of that investment.
Higher tax rates are ''going to make people do things that are economically not sound, and they may not even work,'' said J. Leigh Griffith, a partner at Waller, a national law firm based in Nashville. ''Whether this is enough to push people into aggressively looking for shelter-type things, they'll certainly have a lot of promoters pushing them.''
Here are four questions investors should ask themselves before making an investment aimed at avoiding the new taxes.
IS IT SOUND?
There is an adage about taxes and investments that accountants and advisers like to roll out: don't let the tax tail wag the investment dog. As with any cliché, there is some truth to it.
Vehicles that exist solely to shelter taxes could present problems. Mr. Griffith said the last great period of tax avoidance was the years leading to the 1986 tax reform. He recalled people investing in cattle-feed operations to get a one-year deferral on taxes. Most of the people he knew who did this lost some or all of their money.
''You provided low-cost funding for the cattle owners,'' he said. ''Typically these were poorly run operations, and they lost money.''
While it is too early to tell if there will be a rush to create similar shelters today, Mr. Griffith said he asked his clients to be sure an investment was economically viable before they made it. He is worried that green energy credits might induce people to invest in businesses that could not survive without the subsidies. He singled out credits for the development of algae as a biofuel.
''I know fossil fuels aren't popular, but is algae really a viable long-term addition to domestic energy?'' he asked. ''When we have people doing things primarily for tax, they generally don't work out well. What happens when that credit runs out?''
Real estate is another area where people could do something to save taxes that hurts them in the long run. Under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code, revenue-producing properties, like apartment buildings, can be exchanged so no gains or losses are registered for tax purposes. This is how many real estate empires have been built, with the gains untouched until the owner dies and his heirs inherit the properties at their current value.
But the tax savings are not always worth it. ''People had done well and they would exchange that property for one that wasn't as good,'' said Robert Stammers, director of investor education for the CFA Institute. ''In order to save a little on taxes, they lost their shirt on the new property.''
He said a core issue with this and other tax-driven shelters was people overallocating to certain risks because of a focus on tax.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND IT?
While it may seem obvious that people should understand where they are putting their money before they do it, that is not always the case.
In the boom years, hedge funds were all the rage. Their returns were so high -- 15, 20 or 30 percent year after year -- that it was easy to overlook their high fees, lack of liquidity and opaque manner of investing. Many funds have since fallen to earth -- or their investing practices have been called into question -- yet they continue to charge a typical management fee of 2 percent of the assets and 20 percent of the profit. And there is no guarantee people will be able to take their money out when they want it.
For Shawn Rubin, managing director at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management in New York, the issue is more granular: what are the after-tax returns, and are they worth the amount of risk that is involved?
Mr. Rubin said many investors did not understand just how low the after-tax return could be on hedge funds.
He ran through a series of calculations that took into account how the returns were calculated, tax rates and the reduction of personal deductions for people earning more than $250,000 a year (or $300,000 for a married couple). He envisioned a situation where a return of 8.75 percent from a hedge fund owned by someone in the highest tax bracket in a high-tax state like New York could be whittled away to under 1.6 percent.
''The case against hedge funds today is on the net, after-tax return,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''The tax inefficiency, the 2 and 20 fee and the lack of liquidity make it a tough argument.''
He said investors should look for at least a 10 percent pretax return on a hedge fund investment or go somewhere else.
On a more popular level, investments in life insurance and annuities can seem like good ways for money to grow tax-deferred until someone needs it. But annuities, for example, often charge high fees and restrict how long the money has to be in an account before it can be withdrawn. And it is hard to tell how much the insurance agent selling such vehicles is making from the deal -- an amount that could sway how persuasive he is.
Insurance is a way to defer taxes and to pay a benefit to heirs, while annuities can certainly provide a steady stream of income in later years. But buyers of both products need to consider them like any other investment, with risks as well as benefits.
''When insurance is sold as income replacement or sold to pay estate taxes, there's a clear insurance need,'' said Patrick S. Boyle, investment strategist at Bessemer Trust. ''When it's sold as an investment or pure tax deferral, you just really want to understand what you're getting and what it costs you. Then you need to make the decision if the tax deferral is worth it.''
Above all, Mr. Boyle said, people should take the time to figure out how much that tax deferral will cost them, a calculation that may not be as easy as it seems with insurance.
Another common tool to delay taxes is to defer income into 401(k) plans and, for senior executives, into deferred compensation plans sponsored by their companies. While 401(k) plans have contribution limits and restrictions on withdrawals until age 59 1/2, they are also protected if the company goes bankrupt. Deferred compensation plans do not have the same protection, a risk that became clear when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and executives with deferred compensation became creditors of the company.
When executives decide to defer income, they also need to make some decisions that may be hard to predict, like when and how they want the payments to come back to them.
''Given how high tax rates are, the longer you defer, the lower the present value of your taxes,'' Mr. Boyle said. ''But if something really bad happens to the company, your deferred compensation becomes subject to creditors. You might not get it or you might get part of it.''
This risk to people's financial health can be compounded if they also hold a lot of company stock. And unlike 401(k) plans, deferred income offers limited ways to withdraw money before the date you set, said Paul Lee, a national managing director at Bernstein Global Wealth Management.
''You have to make sure this is money you want and need in retirement,'' Mr. Lee said.
IS IT RIGHT FOR YOUR AGE?
Two investment options attracting a lot of attention for how they are taxed are master limited partnerships and municipal bonds. They receive favorable tax treatment, but how favorable depends on more than the rate.
Master limited partnerships, which are usually set up to transport energy, are structured so the dividend is only partly taxed. This happens because the dividends contain what is called a return of the principal, and it lowers the immediate tax bill.
Joanne E. Johnson, managing director and senior wealth adviser at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, said this was a great investment for couples in their 70s who want to maximize the yield on investments in a tax-efficient way.
But the reason it works for them from a tax perspective is exactly why it would not work for couples in their mid-30s with many working years, and expenses, ahead of them.
The structure of the dividend, she explained, means the part that is untaxed reduces your cost basis -- essentially the price you paid for the shares. If you eventually sell the shares, the part that was untaxed when you were receiving dividends will be taxed as ordinary income. If you hold the shares until you die, the value of the partnerships will rise to their price on your date of death for estate tax purposes.
''If you sell when you're alive, you're going to have a huge tax problem,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''The 35-year-olds would have to hold them for 60 years or it would have a dramatic tax impact on their portfolio.''
There is not such a stark tax picture with municipal bonds. The interest on them is tax-exempt, a good thing for wealthier investors. But that does not mean people should load up on them.
The risk of municipal bonds, beyond the possibility that the deductibility of their interest may become limited, an idea floated by President Obama, is that as the economy improves, people will sell them for higher-yielding investments, reducing their value. This is where comparisons need to be made.
Ms. Johnson said the couple in their 30s might not be in the highest tax bracket and so would not need to shelter as much income. The trade-off between falling values and tax savings is not strong enough, she said.
A couple in their 50s would have to do a different calculation. They would need to weigh the after-tax return of corporate bonds versus the tax-free returns on municipal bonds. For some, she said, the after-tax return on corporate bonds may be better. For the couple in their 70s, municipal bonds serve as a good hedge against high taxes.
Both investments show that investors need to ask detailed questions about how an investment will work in their situations.
IS IT WORTH PAYING TAXES?
With all this complexity, there is an argument to be made for just paying taxes and moving on. This is rooted in another crucial component of investing: managing risk.
Consider a concentrated position in the stock of the company that employs you (and manages your deferred compensation plan). There is a point, usually around 10 percent of your net worth, when advisers tell you to reduce the holding. It is too risky, particularly when something could happen to the company that you don't expect -- think WorldCom's bankruptcy.
But while most people should diversify from a wealth perspective, they might be held back by the fear of a large tax bill. If that stock has grown a lot over the years, there could be substantial capital gains. They might also think, rationally or otherwise, that the stock will keep climbing.
Stock options, which give the holder the right to buy a stock at a set price, are something people often hang on to because they are taxed at the higher rate of ordinary income, instead of capital gains, when exercised. That is fine when the stock is rising.
''If you hold on to them because you're afraid of being taxed at the high end, the stock could fall and your options could be worth zero,'' said Dan Eagan, head of the wealth management group at Bernstein Global Wealth Management.
This is where the best advice for tax-efficient investing may be having a specific investment plan and being vigilant about which accounts own what. Investments like hedge funds and taxable bonds could be put into tax-deferred accounts, while assets that generate lower taxes, like growth stocks, could be held in taxable brokerage accounts.
Brittney Saks, the United States leader of personal financial services at PwC in Chicago, said any single-minded focus on taxes was a bad idea.
''Do you really want taxes to be the primary driver of your investment decision?'' she said. ''No. You could get an answer that isn't right for you personally.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOD FOR SOME: Joanne Johnson of J. P. Morgan Private Bank says master limited partnerships can benefit couples in their 70s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ADMONITION: J. Leigh Griffith, a lawyer in Nashville, says taxes may ''make people do things that are economically not sound.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN POIZNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEO JUNG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); ACCOUNTING (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



424 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Navigating Between Tax Avoidance and Evasion

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
MOST people think they pay too much in taxes and will do their best to avoid them, but few take that a step further into illegal tax evasion.
Many simply complain to anyone who will listen. Phil Mickelson, the professional golfer, did just that a few weeks ago when he finished a tournament and griped that he paid 62 or 63 percent of his income in taxes. Something was going to have to change, he said. His fans were probably more sympathetic before they learned he made $47.8 million last year.
In reality Mr. Mickelson, a resident of high-tax California, probably either misstated his actual rate -- the federal government allows deductions for state and local taxes -- or he has the world's worst accountant and should look into some of the many legal tax-reduction strategies available.
For some other people, the line between legal and illegal tax strategies gets blurred. Or they disregard it. 
Marie Estelle Curran, a widow in Palm Beach, Fla., has found herself crossing the line of legality. She inherited a Swiss bank account from her husband worth $43 million at its peak. She did not disclose this to the Internal Revenue Service for nine years -- her husband had not informed the I.R.S. either. That was bad; worse was that she had moved the money from one bank to another, even seeming to set up a shell company in Panama.
Those actions told the I.R.S. that she was aware of the account. She is set to be sentenced next month and could face six years in prison, at age 79, having already paid half of the balance of the account and back taxes to the I.R.S.
''We all tailor our notion of fairness to our self-interest,'' said Meir Statman, a professor of finance at Santa Clara University in California and the author of ''What Investors Really Want,'' which has a chapter on great tax cheats. ''People will tell themselves that I evade taxes because the government wastes it or there are people who evade even more taxes than me. People get themselves into tricky tax situations because of their anger at what they perceive as unfairness.''
Today's highly politicized tax atmosphere ensures that Mr. Mickelson and Mrs. Curran come off badly in the public eye and suggests that legal tax avoidance and illegal tax evasion have a future. As far as evasion goes, where is the most peril?
It is fairly difficult to evade taxes on legitimate investments because the I.R.S. can crosscheck the forms supplied by the company and the individual. Where people run afoul of the law is when they cut corners.
One of the most brazen tax dodges is not declaring income. This is difficult for anyone who receives a W2 or 1099 form for money earned. The I.R.S. receives those forms, too.
But for people in businesses that are cash-based, the temptation to cut corners and the belief that they will get away with it can be greater. ''I've got one right here on my desk,'' said Maurice M. Glazer, chief executive of Glazer Financial Network in Dallas. ''It's a restaurant, and they're already under audit. They've diverted the cash and put it into the backyard. You can't divert income.''
One of the giveaways for an I.R.S. auditor, he said, is people living a lifestyle not possible given the amount of income declared. Another is bank accounts that show a deposit record of unreported income.
The most frequent area for tax evasion for individuals comes from overstating deductions. It takes all forms, including brazen bids to cheat and efforts to push to the line of legality.
Some common examples include claiming too much for car use for work or a home office deduction, overstating charitable deductions and putting dependents on a tax return who are not true dependents. ''People do all kinds of things to underreport income and embellish expenses,'' Mr. Glazer said. He said a client who was a contractor once tried to claim $80,000 in income, with $45,000 in expenses for a truck.
Robert A. Mathers, a tax lawyer and certified public accountant at Davis & Kuelthau in Milwaukee, said a taxpayer's risk of being audited for overstating deductions depends on how the income and deductions are scored on the I.R.S.'s ''discriminant function,'' or DIF. That is the agency's secret computer program to determine the likelihood that someone is cheating and how much money could be collected from an audit.
''I had a client who came in with charitable deductions and they were higher than half of this person's adjusted gross income,'' Mr. Mathers said. ''I challenged the client on them. He showed me a register in Quicken that showed the donations coming from his Visa card. I said how do I know those aren't charges for socks?''
This year, Mr. Mathers said he was preparing for people who pushed in several areas. One is refundable credits -- like the earned income credit for people with children -- an area where the I.R.S. is increasing scrutiny.
Problems arise when people provide only partial support for nieces and nephews, or any amount for children who do not exist. ''If I provide enough support for an unrelated party, it's possible to claim some deductions,'' Mr. Mathers said.
Mr. Glazer said he once had a client who was supporting his sister's seven children. He was entitled to take a deduction for that. He had also been taking the child care credit, but that was pushing too far. The credit is so parents can work. Because the children did not live with him, he did not qualify for it.
''He's trying to help his sister, but in an audit it could end up being more than just penalties and taxes,'' Mr. Glazer said. ''What will happen is the I.R.S. will go to that tax preparer and say give us every one of your returns where you took a child care credit and audit them, too.''
Another area of potential trouble is for people who lost their jobs in the recession and began working from home. They are entitled to deduct part of their home expenses as business expenses, but the issue is how much.
To deter overzealous deductions, the I.R.S. for the 2013 tax year created a standard deduction for a home office of $1,500. ''If it doesn't put you into a loss of income, you can take it,'' Mr. Mathers said. ''That's a relief.''
The penalties for pushing tax avoidance into evasion depend on the severity of the offense. ''There's a fine line between conduct that rises to a potential charge for tax evasion and activities that don't rise to tax evasion,'' James N. Mastracchio, the co-chair BakerHostetler's national tax controversy practice. ''It comes down to burden of proof. There has to be willfulness.''
The penalties for criminal tax fraud are the most severe. This is where the most egregious Swiss bank account cases fall, like the ones when a person created a series of shell companies to mask the ultimate owner of an account. Penalties here include jail time.
The penalties for civil fraud are monetary and structured on a sliding scale, depending on the severity of the offense. But the penalties can run to 75 percent of the taxes owed, Mr. Mastracchio said. (With the Swiss bank cases, additional penalties come from not filing a form telling the I.R.S. that an account exists.)
These penalties do not include legal and accounting fees to prepare a defense. Mr. Glazer said his firm is completing a case with two doctors who simply spent more than they could afford and fell behind on taxes by about $600,000. Because there was no fraud, they were able to work out a deal with the I.R.S. on taxes and penalties. Mr. Glazer said his firm charged them about $25,000.
An easy solution to all of this might seem to be a simplification of the tax code. When that happened in 1986, the demand for tax shelters dried up. But lawyers interviewed for this article said tax rates were not the primary impetus for tax cheats.
''I don't think it's higher tax rates that spur people,'' Mr. Mastracchio said. ''I think it's about conduct. Unfortunately, there are people who take stances that they know are incorrect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOT EVADER OR AVOIDER: Phil Mickelson complained about paying 62 or 63 percent of his income in taxes. He might be overpaying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX FRAUD (92%); TAX LAW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); SENTENCING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); GOLF (72%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: PHIL MICKELSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



425 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: How the Union's State Got So 'Strong'

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama is likely to declare on Tuesday evening that the state of the union is strong. That word, strong, has become a ritual element of the annual address to Congress, intoned by Mr. Obama and his predecessors over the last 30 years even when things were not going that well.
''The state of our union has never been stronger,'' President George W. Bush said in January 2002, immediately after reminding Congress that the nation was at war and the economy was in recession. 
''Despite our hardships, our union is strong,'' Mr. Obama said in January 2010, after mentioning that the nation was engaged in two wars and that the economy had fallen into an even deeper recession.
Strong, stronger, strongest -- one of those words has been used to describe the union in each of the last 17 State of the Union addresses.
But it was not always so. Presidents once used other words to describe the state of our union. President Jimmy Carter liked to call it ''sound.'' President Harry S. Truman liked to call it ''good.'' President Lyndon B. Johnson, in a lyrical moment, described the state of the union in 1965 as ''free and restless, growing and full of hope.''
And when things were not going well, they said so.
''I must say to you that the state of the union is not good,'' President Gerald R. Ford said in 1975, citing high unemployment, slow growth and soaring deficits. He added, ''I've got bad news, and I don't expect much, if any, applause.''
In 1961, President John F. Kennedy said, ''The present state of our economy is disturbing,'' declaring that he spoke in ''an hour of national peril and national opportunity.''
No president has ever delivered a more dour assessment than Andrew Johnson in 1867, as the nation wrestled with the Reconstruction of the Southern states: ''Candor compels me to declare that at this time there is no union as our fathers understood the term, and as they meant it to be understood by us.''
What changed? The simple answer is President Ronald Reagan.
Reagan's first official State of the Union address, in 1982, was among the bleaker assessments a president has delivered, although it was framed with his trademark optimism. The state of the union, he declared, would be getting better.
The following year, he said that it had. ''As we gather here tonight,'' Reagan told Congress, ''the state of our union is strong.''
Anthony R. Dolan, Reagan's chief speechwriter, said that he could not recall who suggested the word ''strong,'' but that it was a better choice than ''good'' or ''sound'' because ''it had just a little bit of a moral quality.'' Mr. Dolan said he also liked the word because it was ''qualitative rather than quantitative'' -- the union could be strong even if the economy was not.
Reagan used the same word, though never in exactly the same way, in several subsequent years.
But it was President Bill Clinton who made the phrase a modern standard, declaring that ''the state of our union is strong'' in each annual address from 1996 to 1999. By January 2000, when the economy was booming, he jettisoned all understatement and grandly pronounced, ''My fellow Americans, the state of our union is stronger than it has ever been.''
David Kusnet, Mr. Clinton's chief speechwriter during his early years in the White House, said that he did not recall the decision to use the phrase, but that it was easy to imagine why the choice was made, and repeated, and repeated.
''Strong is a tempting word,'' Mr. Kusnet said. ''It's simple, declarative. It's alliterative. And it had the added benefit of being accurate.'' He said he saw the phrase as a modern version of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's formulation that the nation was stronger than its problems.
''Since F.D.R., the essence of presidential rhetoric is summoning our national strength to address our national challenges,'' said Mr. Kusnet, a principal at the Podesta Group.
Mr. Bush also used ''strong'' and its variants in each of his seven State of the Union addresses. Matthew N. Latimer, a speechwriter in Mr. Bush's second term, said that in his recollection no one ever proposed a different adjective. ''If presidents before you said that the state of the union is strong, you say that it's strong,'' said Mr. Latimer, who now runs Javelin, a ghostwriting firm. ''Otherwise someone is going to say, 'Why didn't he say that the country is still strong?' ''
Of course, there are risks in such perpetual optimism. Consider the case of President Herbert Hoover, who said in 1928, the last year before the stock market crash ushered in the Great Depression, ''No Congress of the United States ever assembled, on surveying the state of the union, has met with a more pleasing prospect than that which appears at the present time.''
Perhaps it would be safer to emulate President Benjamin Harrison, who in 1889 wrote to Congress -- as presidents did throughout the 19th century -- that there was no need for the president to describe the state of the union because ''every step taken is under the observation of an intelligent and watchful people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The state of our union is strong,'' President Bill Clinton said in his address to Congress in 1999. And in 1996, 1997 and 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



426 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Where the Broadband Roams

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Edward Wyatt reports from Agate, Colo., about the $4 billion Broadband Technology Opportunities Program, part of the Obama administration's 2009 economic stimulus effort. 

 BODY:
In Tuesday's New York Times, Edward Wyatt reports from Agate, Colo., on the $4 billion Broadband Technology Opportunities Program, part of the Obama administration's 2009 economic stimulus effort. The aim of the grant program is to extend high-speed Internet access to parts of the country that had little or none of it because private companies said it was too expensive to build. 
But local phone companies have complained about waste or unfair competition, like using some of the grants to build fiber networks where they already exist - including, in Colorado, in the easily accessible eastern plains that include Agate - rather than where they are most needed, in rural mountain towns.
Nationally, $594 million in spending has been temporarily or permanently halted, 14 percent of the overall program, and the Commerce Department's inspector general has raised questions about the program's ability to adequately monitor spending of the more than 230 grants. 
In Illinois, for example, a $12 million broadband grant was sanctioned when a subcontractor was caught routing fiber optic cable through neighborhoods where its project engineers lived. A $39 million grant in Arizona was suspended over questionable expenditures on travel, transactions that appeared to involve conflicts of interest and other unbudgeted activities.
In Agate, two high-speed connections already existed in a school that had been teaching students from kindergarten through 12th grade. Now the oldest students are fifth graders, and the school says the high-speed fiber optic service is of little use and beyond its means. It has requested bids for a slower-speed connection to replace it.
Agate's third fiber optic connection was among the projects built with funds from a $100 million grant to an education consortium called Eagle-Net. The grant has been suspended since December, when officials discovered that Eagle-Net had changed nearly all of its plans for wiring the state. Four months earlier, Eagle-Net was warned about questionable spending and lack of budgetary controls, according to Commerce Department documents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%) Policy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



427 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Posts Loss of $1.3 Billion and Plans to Cut 3,700 Jobs

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Barclays announced that it would eliminate 3,700 jobs and close several business units, as it reported a big loss for the fourth quarter of 2012. 

 BODY:
 8:13 a.m. | Updated 
LONDON - Barclays announced a major reorganization that will eliminate 3,700 jobs and close several business units, as the bank reported a big loss in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The overhaul of its operations comes after a series of scandals at the bank, including one concerning the manipulation of benchmark interest rates, which led to the resignation of the firm's former chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr.
In a bid to reduce its exposure to risky trading activity, Barclays plans to close a number of operations in Europe and Asia, including a tax-planning unit that has been criticized for tarnishing the firm's reputation. 
 "There will be no going back to the old way of doing things," the chief executive, Antony P. Jenkins, told reporters at a news conference in London on Tuesday. "We will never be in a position again of rewarding people for activities inconsistent with our values."
Despite the revamping of its operations and a new emphasis on values, the bank plans to retain the majority of its investment banking unit, particularly its operations in Britain and the United States. The division generated roughly 60 percent of the bank's adjusted pretax profit in 2012.
Barclays will close four business divisions, while an additional 17 units will be closed, sold or pared back in response to subdued market activity, Mr. Jenkins said. In total, the expected layoffs across the bank's operations represent around 3 percent of the firm's global work force.
The investment banking division, where about 1,800 employees are expected to be laid off, is to be among the hardest hit. The job cuts will primarily fall on the bank's Asian and European equities divisions, as well as its agricultural commodities trading operations. Almost 90 percent of the reductions already have been made, according to Christopher G. Lucas, the bank's departing chief financial officer.
Mr. Jenkins declined to comment specifically on the position of Rich Ricci, the head of Barclays investment banking, whose name has surfaced in the inquiry into the bank's role in the rate-rigging scandal.
"No one can predict the future, but I am confident in the team around me," Mr. Jenkins said. "Who knows what could happen in a year's time?"
The reorganization plan includes an additional 1,900 job cuts in the bank's European retail and business banking unit, where Barclays plans to close roughly 30 percent of its Continental branch network. 
The reductions have been focused in areas where Barclays does not compete globally with other international banks or where the firm could experience damage to its reputation, as with the recent rate-rigging scandal and the inappropriate sales of loan insurance to customers.
"Not much of this is surprising," said Ian Gordon, a banking analyst at Investec in London. "They are not removing any of the material activities from the investment bank."
The recent scandals weighed down the bank's fourth-quarter earnings.
Barclays posted a net loss of £835 million ($1.3 billion) in the last three months of 2012, compared with a profit of £356 million in the period a year earlier.
The latest results were hampered by the need to set aside capital to compensate customers who had been inappropriately sold loan insurance and for small businesses that were improperly sold complex interest-rate hedging products. Barclays also took a charge against the value of its own debt.
Excluding one-time charges and adjustments, the bank's pretax profit for the fourth quarter would have been £1.1 billion, about double the amount in the period a year earlier.
For 2012, the bank reported an annual net loss of £1 billion, compared with a £3 billion profit for 2011. The annual loss resulted from provisions to cover legal costs related to the rate-rigging scandal and other improper activities.
The bank added that it would reduce annual costs by around 10 percent, to £16.8 billion, by 2015. Its share price rose almost 6 percent in afternoon trading in London on Tuesday.
Barclays said it had reduced bonuses across its operations by 16 percent for 2012, compared with the previous year. In its investment banking division, total bonuses fell 20 percent, with the average bonus in the unit standing at £54,100, a 17 percent reduction, according to a company statement. 
The bank added that it had cut compensation awards because of risks facing several business units, including the rate-rigging scandal.
In a settlement with American and British authorities in June, Barclays agreed to pay fines totaling $450 million to resolve accusations that some of its traders had manipulated the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for financial gain. Some of the firm's managers also altered the rate to portray the bank as being in a healthier financial position than it actually was. 
The investment banking division reported a pretax profit of £858 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a pretax profit of £267 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Pretax profit at the bank's retail and business banking unit rose 17 percent, to £732 million, while pretax profit in its corporate banking division almost tripled, to £107 million.
Mr. Jenkins acknowledged that some of the firm's past actions had fallen short. He added that the investment banking division would remain at the heart of the firm's future operations, though wrongdoing would not be tolerated.
"The old ways weren't the right way to behave, nor did they deliver the right results," Mr. Jenkins said. "Individuals must take responsibility for their own behavior."

        
With R.B.S. Settlement, Legal Tab for Banks Grows and Grows
        
2 Top Officers at Barclays to Step Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Barclays PLC; Company Reports; Jenkins, Antony P; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); London (England); Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); INVESTEC LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); INL (JSE) (50%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: Jenkins, Antony P

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); ASIA (77%); ENGLAND (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



428 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Nexen Secures U.S. Approval of Its Sale to Cnooc of China

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Nexen has received the last regulatory approval needed for its $15 billion sale to a major Chinese oil company, after the Obama administration declared the deal free from national security concerns. 

 BODY:
Nexen said on Tuesday that it had received the last regulatory approval needed for its $15 billion sale to a major Chinese oil company, after the Obama administration declared the deal free from national security concerns. 
With all necessary regulatory approvals in place, Nexen is set to become the latest acquisition by the Chinese oil industry, as the country seeks more and more sources of oil and natural gas to fuel its economy.
The deal is expected to close around Feb. 25.
The buyer in this transaction, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or Cnooc, has been among the most acquisitive. It has announced six deals in the last two years, according to Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. Nexen, based in Calgary, is the biggest proposed deal by Cnooc since its failed attempt to buy Unocal for $18.5 billion in 2005.
Though most of its holdings are abroad, Nexen has major operations in the Gulf of Mexico, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius.
The approval by the Obama administration comes two months after the Canadian government approved the deal. That was regarded as perhaps the biggest hurdle, given spurts of nationalistic concern over foreign buyers claiming big tracts of natural resources in Canada.
A review by Cfius (pronounced SIF-ee-us) is still regarded as potentially tough, however. The organization, which is chaired by the Treasury secretary, makes its decisions behind closed doors, and buyers are not always told why a deal is rejected.
But Cfius has approved several potentially sensitive deals recently, including the sale of the bankrupt car battery maker A123 Systems to the Wanxiang Group.
Lawyers at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton wrote in a note to clients on Monday that the A123 approval "is evidence that even when politics, protectionism and xenophobia all appear to be significant obstacles, Cfius will not raise objections if it believes no security issues exist."
"With proper planning and transparency," Cleary Gottlieb added, "even politically controversial transactions can successfully negotiate the Cfius process."

        
China Woos Overseas Companies, Looking for Deals
        
China's Bid for Nexen May Survive a Rejection

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (95%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); LAWYERS (65%); BATTERY MFG (50%) Foreign Investments; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Nexen Inc; Nexen Inc|NXY|NYSE; Energy; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (92%); CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (82%); A123 SYSTEMS INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES (55%) Nexen Inc

TICKER: Nexen Inc; NXY; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



429 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: What Are Your Predictions for and Reactions to the State of the Union Address?

BYLINE: MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: What do you predict President Obama will say about the progress the country has made over the past year? What priorities do you think he will set for the coming year? 

 BODY:
 On Tuesday night, President Obama will deliver his first State of the Union address for his second term in office. 
What do you predict he will say about the progress the country has made over the past year? What priorities do you think he will set for the coming year?
 Note: We'll be moderating your comments live during the State of the Union address, so we invite you to watch with us and join the student-only conversation. 
In the article "In Address, President Will Focus on the Middle Class," Michael D. Shear and Jackie Calmes outline what President Obama is likely to say during his speech.
 President Obama on Tuesday will seek to move beyond the politics of the moment to define a second-term agenda built around restoring economic prosperity to the middle class, using his State of the Union address to unveil initiatives in education, infrastructure, clean energy and manufacturing. 
Having secured four more years in the White House by arguing that the nation's economy is tilted against ordinary Americans, Mr. Obama will vow to use the power of his office to recapture robust job growth and economic expansion, according to White House officials who have seen the speech. Both eluded him during his first term.
Mr. Obama will insist that only "a thriving middle class" can stimulate long-term growth and that Americans must be given the tools to succeed, according to the officials, who discussed the speech on the condition of anonymity. His call for new government investments - many of which Republicans successfully blocked in his first term - is an effort to shift the emphasis away from simply reducing the deficit and will serve in part as an answer to Republican criticism that he has not focused enough on jobs. 
"I think you will hear him talk about some new proposals that build on his earlier efforts to help middle-class Americans," said Nancy-Ann DeParle, who until recently was Mr. Obama's deputy chief of staff. "I think his message will be - as he is - very positive and optimistic: 'We're strong, and we're moving in the right direction. The economy is improving, but we have more work to do to ensure that all Americans can take advantage of a stronger economy.' "
 Prediction: What are your predictions for the president's State of the Union address? 

        
What do you predict he will say about the progress the country has made over the past year?
        
What priorities do you think he will set for the coming year?
        
What historical events do you think he will mention?
        
What do you predict Senator Marco Rubio will say in the Republican response?
 Reaction: What is your reaction to the president's State of the Union address? 

        
How would you rate his speech? Do you think it was effective?
        
What issues did he emphasize? What arguments did he make?
        
What was his speaking style? 
        
What wasn't addressed that you would have liked to hear? 
        
What was your reaction to Mr. Rubio's response?
        
Did you have any favorite lines from the president's speech or Mr. Rubio's rebuttal?
 Teachers: We also have a related lesson plan,"Assessing the Address: State of the Union Lesson Ideas."
 NOTE: Students, please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name. 

        
What's Your Response to Obama's Third State of the Union Address?
        
Assessing the Address: State of the Union Lesson Ideas
        
Birth Certificate Brouhaha
        
What Is Your Reaction to Obama's Second State of the Union Address?
        
What Did You Think of Obama's State of the Union Address?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (55%) Barack Obama; Obama; political speeches; State of the Union; Student Opinion

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (58%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



430 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: The latest issue is devoted to cheese. How devoted? Let's start with 50 recipes for macaroni and cheese. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New Yorker: A day in the life of Danny Bowien. -- Maria Newman 
: No date yet for V-Day? You might consider serving your prey one of these aphrodisiac drinks and desserts. - Patrick Farrell
: Chicken parts: a poem, a recipe. -- Julia Moskin
: The mixologist Eben Freeman has collaborated with Milwaukee's Lakefront Brewery to create Fernet Stout, a beer that tastes like the renowned Italian amaro. It's on tap at Nicoletta Pizzeria and Osteria Morini. - Robert Simonson
The New Yorker: Don't move, you Pringles end-caps, Cremora displays and canned-soup pyramids: a painter, Brendan O'Connell, has made it his life's work to capture local Walmarts on canvas, and -- as an article by Susan Orlean describes -- he has depicted "the art in the Wonder Bread." (Subscription required.) - Glenn Collins
: A cocktail for a big man in a long leather coat. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Elizabeth David's "French Country Cooking" made it onto this list of the 50 most influential books by Anglo-American women; Julia Child's "Mastering The Art of French Cooking," not so much. -- Julia Moskin
The Economist: Revenues for KFC, formerly the reigning chicken king of China, fell a staggering 41 percent in January, as a drumbeat of headlines alleging excess antibiotics in the Colonel's chicken hasn't gone away. - Glenn Collins
The Selby: Sun-filled, flour-and-butter porn from the Vergennes Laundry, a bakery in Vermont. -- Julia Moskin
The Associated Press: Tastes like chicken? Yes, if chip-lovers vote for it: the next big Lay's potato chip could taste like chicken and waffles -- or cheesy garlic bread, or the Thai-inspired sriracha - depending upon which of these sell the best when Frito-Lay offers three flavor options in a nationwide market test next week. - Glenn Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHEESE (89%); BEER & ALE (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); BREWERIES (70%); BAKERIES (67%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); FRITO-LAY INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (76%) WISCONSIN, USA (76%); VERMONT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



431 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: David Leonhardt on Economic Growth and E-Books as 17th-Century Avatars

BYLINE: THE STAFF


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's Washington bureau chief and magazine contributor explains why he decided to write an e-book. 

 BODY:
 David Leonhardt, The Times's Washington bureau chief and a contributor to the magazine, is the author of the e-book, "Here's the Deal: How Washington Can Solve the Deficit and Spur Growth," published yesterday by Byliner. He will be taking questions from readers about President Obama's State of the Union address and the state of the economy starting at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow. We had a couple questions for him about his new work. 
 Did any of your work for the magazine provide jumping-off points for this book? 
Yes, several articles were jumping-off points. The most important was a 2009 article called "The Big Fix," which came out near the depth of the recession. Our goal with that article was to look beyond the immediate crisis - which, as the first sentence said, would end eventually - and ask what it would take to get the American economy growing at a healthy pace again. Reporting that article was like taking a seminar on economic growth. I spent a long time talking with growth experts like Paul Romer and reading work by Mancur Olson and others. I know some people worry that we overemphasize economic growth at the expense of equality or sustainability. But I'm convinced that faster growth makes every problem easier to solve: middle-class living standards, climate change, health issues and certainly the deficit.
A 2008 article, "Obamanomics," was also important to the e-book project, as were a few others, such as "Richly Undeserved," "Students of the Great Recession," "Making Health Care Better" and "The Three Biggest Tax Breaks - and What They Cost Us." And for anyone skeptical of the value of the education - one of the e-book's themes - it's worth taking a look at the chart that accompanies my article, "Is Religion Your Financial Destiny?" which ran in the magazine in May 2011.
 Why write an e-book? 
When Tyler Cowen, the economist and co-author of the Marginal Revolution blog, wrote an e-book recently ("The Great Stagnation"), he mentioned that its length - about 15,000 words - was the length of economics pamphlets written for the public in the 17th century. Somehow, that length had all but fallen out of use until the e-book came along. It's longer than a long magazine feature - which are often between 6,000 and 8,000 words - but much shorter than even a short book. And yet the pamphlet length has real advantages. It's a good length for a single evening's reading or a plane flight.
Gerry Marzorati, Hugo Lindgren's predecessor as the editor of the magazine, suggested an e-book, as part of his current role at The Times, and I was immediately tempted. I've spent much of the last 12 years writing about the economy, and it was a pleasure to lay out my thoughts at a more leisurely pace than an 1,100-word column permits.

        
How to Read Like a Bibulous Book Writer
        
How to Read Like an Eclectic Picture Person
        
Books in the Sun
        
How to Read Like a Reporter Who Gets Behind the Scenes
        
How to Read Like a History-Buff Middle East Reporter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Books and Literature; E-Books and Readers; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Leonhardt, David

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%) Leonhardt, David

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



432 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: The Growing Corporate Cash Hoard

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: The tendency of corporations to stockpile cash abroad, rather than bringing it home, paying taxes and distributing it to shareholders, is a growing problem, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Last week, the investor David Einhorn sued Apple, in which his hedge fund is a large shareholder, to prevent it from taking actions that would allow it to continue holding onto its $137 billion in cash, rather than paying it out as dividends. 
Mr. Einhorn's action highlights a growing problem: many corporations are holding vast amounts of cash and other liquid assets, using them neither for investment nor to benefit shareholders. These assets are largely earned and held overseas, and not subject to American taxes until the money is brought home. 
Such tax-avoidance techniques, while legal, have come under increasing political attack. On Thursday, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont introduced legislation to end deferral and force multinational companies to pay taxes on their foreign-source income.
According to the Federal Reserve, as of the third quarter of 2012 nonfinancial corporations in the United States held $1.7 trillion of liquid assets - cash and securities that could easily be converted to cash.
By any measure, corporate cash holdings appear to be high and rising.

According to the Federal Reserve, nonfinancial corporations historically held liquid assets of 25 to 30 percent of their short-term liabilities. But this percentage began rising in 2001 and now tends to be in the 45 to 50 percent range. In the third quarter of 2012, it was 44.9 percent.
A recent study by Juan Sánchez and Emircan Yurdagul of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis looked at the ratio of cash to assets at all publicly held nonfinancial, non-utility corporations. They found that, historically, such corporations held cash equal to about 6 percent of their assets, but that began rising in 1995 and is now more than 12 percent, as seen below. 
One obvious explanation for higher cash holdings by corporations is the uncertainty of the economic environment in the aftermath of the financial crisis. They may also face greater difficulty in getting credit on short notice and need to hold more cash as a precaution.
Another explanation, put forward by the economists Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle and René M. Stulz, is that the growing research-and-development intensity of corporations forces them to hold more cash than they used to. They also note that companies hold fewer inventories and accounts receivable than they used to. And, they say, these factors make corporate cash flow less dependable than previously, thus necessitating the need for higher cash holdings.
A 2011 study by the International Monetary Fund (see Pages 44-49) suggests that higher cash holdings by corporations are simply a sign that they plan new investments in the near future. It says this is a "good omen," which indicates that "investment could increase substantially over the next year or two."
However, the dominant explanation for the increased liquidity of nonfinancial corporations appears to be the growing role of multinational corporations and the profits of their foreign operations.
In a 2006 speech, the Federal Reserve Board governor Kevin Warsh noted that higher corporate cash holdings were dominated by those with foreign operations. Between 2001 and 2004, the ratio of cash to assets at domestic-only corporations increased 20 percent, while it increased 50 percent among multinational corporations.
While this may indicate that multinational corporations expect better growth potential among their foreign subsidiaries and plan additional offshore investments, a more likely explanation is tax-based.
Under American tax law, corporate profits generated offshore are taxable, with a tax credit for taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions. But American taxes don't apply unless and until such profits are repatriated to the United States. Thus, as long as profits are held abroad, United States taxes are deferred indefinitely.
A 2007 study in the Journal of Financial Economics found that among multinational corporations, those facing higher repatriation taxes tended to hold more cash abroad than those facing lower tax burdens. Moreover, cash holdings tend to be higher in countries with low taxes than those with high taxes. Tax sensitivity appears to be more pronounced among technology-based companies.
More recent research published by the National Bureau of Economic Research tested for the impact of taxes on corporate cash holdings by looking at companies that become multinational. They do not tend to increase their cash holdings afterward, thus undermining the tax-based explanation. But the study also finds that research and development intensity is a crucial factor.
The major role of R.&D. in large cash holdings may reflect the greater opportunities for tax avoidance among businesses that can easily transfer intangible property abroad without having to move production operations or jobs to other countries. It is a simple matter for companies holding patents, copyrights or trademarks to transfer them to foreign subsidiaries and realize the profits accruing to them in lower-taxed jurisdictions.
I had an experience with this phenomenon just recently. I needed a copy of Microsoft Word for a new computer and went to www.microsoft.com to buy it. But when I tried to pay for it, my credit card was rejected. When I checked with my credit-card company I was told that the charge appeared suspicious because it went to a company based in Luxembourg - a well-known tax haven.
This technique is used by many technology-based companies. For example, The Wall Street Journal reported on Feb. 7 that the patent for the hepatitis C medication produced by California-based Gilead Sciences is domiciled in Ireland, another common tax haven. The home company thus pays royalties to its Irish subsidiary on sales of the drug in the United States, transferring profits from the United States to Ireland.
While the prospects for individual income tax reform appear to be fading, those for corporate tax reform are more positive. The problem of deferral
and the large amount of cash held abroad by multinational corporations based in the United States are key factors driving both parties toward action, possibly this year.

        
Some Big Corporations Don't Pay Taxes, Either
        
The Merits of a Corporate Tax Overhaul
        
Fitting the Tax Code to Today's Businesses
        
Are Manufacturers Really Special?
        
More on Romney's Tax Rate (and Everyone Else's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); WRITERS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CASH FLOW (75%); TAX FRAUD (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%) Corporate Taxes; Law and Legislation; Sanders, Bernard; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (85%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%) Sanders, Bernard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



433 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Immigration and Innovation

BYLINE: A. MUSHFIQ MOBARAK


HIGHLIGHT: America's role as an innovation leader is strongly tied to the talented foreigners it attracts to study and work, and immigration policy should foster their risk-taking, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 A. Mushfiq Mobarak is an associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management. 
The United States economy has a comparative advantage in science and innovation. The country of Apple, Google, Facebook, Ford, General Motors, Boeing, Microsoft and FedEx thrives by creating new products and introducing entirely new markets. The American economy is innovation-driven, and such innovation requires, first and foremost, people with good ideas and skilled workers who can transform those ideas into marketable products. Where does all this talent that our economy is built on originate? Are we the innovation leaders because we have a monopoly on talent in the world?
The basic data suggest otherwise. American secondary school students consistently rank toward the bottom among their counterparts in other countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in tests measuring science and mathematics aptitude. The United States has sustained its primary position as developer of new scientific knowledge and product innovations, despite the deficiencies in math and science training, with the immigration of skilled workers. 
Talented people across the world are attracted to the institutions that the United States has carefully cultivated to support innovation. By any reasonable assessment, a clear majority of the world's top universities are in the United States. These universities attract talent from all over the globe. Most engineering Ph.D.'s granted at American universities now go to people born abroad. In a recently published paper, my colleagues and I show that these foreign-born doctoral students create new scientific knowledge and fuel innovation at science and engineering labs at American universities. In that paper, increases in the supply of foreign students subsequently result in significantly greater publications and citations from science and engineering departments in the United States. Many of those students remain in the country after graduation and contribute to the innovations produced by American companies.
Such data on the contributions of foreign students to American innovation strongly support the spirit and the central provisions of immigration reform proposals offered by the White House and by Senators Orrin Hatch, Marco Rubio, Amy Klobuchar and Chris Coons. (Three of the senators are members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which will take up the issue of comprehensive immigration reform at a hearing on Wednesday.) If talented foreigners want to study and work in the United States, economic logic and the data suggest that we should welcome them. American companies working in the very sectors where our comparative advantage lies benefit from their presence. Such a policy also creates other rare but significant benefits for the future of the nation. A typical profile of a recent Nobel laureate is a United States citizen or someone trained or teaching at an American university, but who was born in a foreign country.
One might be tempted to conclude from this narrative that our immigration system is working well, but this conclusion is premature and dangerous for two reasons. First, the United States is not the only country in the market for that talent. Three of the five most recent Nobel laureates from Britain were not born there. Australian and British educators were overjoyed with the quality of their international student applicant pool when the United States instituted restrictions on student visas after 9/11. Other countries deliberately pursue immigration policies to spur innovation.
Second, it's impossible to know the counterfactual: how much better off we would have been had our immigration policies been more welcoming to skilled people? American citizens like Bill Gates, Sergey Brin and Mark Zuckerberg made brave decisions to drop out of school and start some of the most successful companies in the history of the planet. As a former foreign doctoral student, I can attest that under current immigration policies, such decisions are not easy to make for foreign students. For noncitizens trying to create a foothold in this country, it is virtually impossible to take the risks that these remarkable people took. With no clear path to citizenship, talented entrepreneurs who are foreign-born find it very risky to start businesses. Their options are limited to taking a salaried position with an employer who could sponsor their visa, or to marry an American. Our policies could be revised to promote entrepreneurial risk-taking by the top talent regardless of their country of origin, because just one Microsoft, or a Google or a Facebook, can change the world.
The blueprint offered by Senator Hatch and colleagues is full of sensible provisions, including work permits for spouses of H-1B workers. Talented people often meet and marry other educated, talented people, and having those productive spouses sit at home is a dead-weight loss to the United States economy. Residents at any major university town in the country will recognize ads from over-qualified babysitters "informally" willing to look after your children.
This bill will receive predictable pushback with simplistic arguments from special interest groups worried about skilled migrants undercutting American wages. But as other research has shown, immigrants make a net positive contribution to the United States economy, as they create more jobs than they take away, and their presence increases income per worker in the United States. Arguments that skilled immigrants will displace American workers, and thereby prevent young Americans from pursuing degrees in science, fail to recognize that entrepreneurs and innovators start new companies and invent new products that employ more skilled workers. Do we really believe that people like Sergey Brin or Albert Einstein took away more jobs than they created? Or that Facebook, Instagram or exciting new product lines from Google or Microsoft do not attract more young Americans to science
If skilled foreigners getting stuck to their visa sponsors in indentured low-wage work is a concern, then visa policies should be reformed to allow foreign-born entrepreneurs the flexibility to start their own businesses, not to pursue policies that keep them from our shores. Indeed, the White House's proposal for immigration reform includes such a provision for a "start-up visa" for foreign-born entrepreneurs.
Another counterargument to high-skilled immigration involves the concept of "brain drain" - worries that by attracting talent here, we are taking away the best and the brightest from other countries that have greater need for that talent. The fact is, these immigrants typically contribute more to their countries of origin than people who are prevented from leaving at all. This is because of the tremendously higher productivity of workers educated in the United States. Labor is the second largest export from Bangladesh, the country where I was born, and remittances account for over 10 percent of our gross domestic product. I, like many other first-generation immigrants, have continued contributing to the development of my country of birth, by combining the skills I acquired in the United States with my context-specific knowledge to pursue research and policies that address some of the key public health and development challenges in Bangladesh. One project demonstrates, for example, that promoting internal (rural to urban) seasonal migration is a very cost-effective way to counter a recurring pre-harvest famine.
The internal migration strategy works because it creates a better match between where people are and where the complementary inputs (capital, jobs) are during certain seasons, and this leads to enhanced efficiency and productivity. Attracting talented people to the United States and allowing them to interact with the innovative universities and companies creates similar efficiency gains that can be a win-win for the source countries and for the United States.

        
Podcast: The Economy, Manufacturing and Commercialized College Life
        
Answers to Your Questions on Skilled Immigration
        
Getting a Degree: Less Rigor, More Value
        
An Edge in Science Among the Foreign-Born
        
Makers vs. Takers: An Update

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Students (in US); Foreign Workers; Immigration and Emigration; United States Economy; Visas

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%); APPLE INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (58%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (50%); CHRIS COONS (50%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



434 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: State of the Union Preview

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Apparently President Obama will announce that 34,000 out of 66,000 troops will come home from Afghanistan by this time next year. 

 BODY:
Ahead of tonight's State of the Union Address, the White House has followed custom by leaking tidbits from the speech.
Apparently President Obama will get tough with the Republicans on the economy, which is well and good. And apparently Mr. Obama will announce that 34,000 out of 66,000 troops will come home from Afghanistan by this time next year, which sounds better than it is. That means the Pentagon is roughly on pace to hand over security to the Afghans by the end of 2014 - as Mr. Obama has long promised. That also means another two years of pointless bloodshed. 
As we said on the editorial page last October, there's no reason left to delay. All American troops should be out by the end of 2013.

According to a Times article, the Pentagon wants a "robust" force for another "fighting season" (when the roads are not so choked with snow that no one can move around well). That's supposed to "consolidate military gains."
What can the Pentagon achieve through two more years of Americans putting their lives at risk that it has not been achieved in the last 11 years, four months, and five days? What, exactly, do we hope to gain? Can we guarantee that the Taliban will stay out of power? Unlikely. Can we guarantee that Afghan troops will have the ability to take responsibility for their own security? Unlikely. The Afghan army's fighting ability is pretty weak (although members of the Afghan force have been effective at killing Americans). The government is a corrupt mess. Staying another year will put the United States in the position of policing yet another messy, unreliable Afghan election.
Perhaps Mr. Obama will make a good case tonight for more fighting - at least to those of us who will be listening. Last year, only 38 million people watched the State of the Union on the broadcast stations. Gerald Ford did better than that.

        
Rubio's Rebuttal
        
The Church and the Mandate
        
The Targeted Killing Memo and the Problem of Secret Law
        
Obama's 'Just Trust Me' Argument
        
The Spending Brownout

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (77%); TALIBAN (76%); POWER FAILURES (65%) Afghanistan War (2001- ); Obama, Barack; State of the Union Message (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



435 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Feb. 12

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: North Korea conducts a nuclear test; the pope resigns; strivers in Afghanistan; scrutiny for the French school schedule; and punk meets couture. 

 BODY:
 NEWS North Korea appeared to conduct its third, and probably largest, nuclear test on Tuesday, according to American and Asian officials, posing a new challenge for the Obama administration in its effort to keep the country from becoming a full-fledged nuclear power. David E. Sanger reports from Washington, and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul. 
Pope Benedict XVI's surprise announcement on Monday that he will resign on Feb. 28 sets the stage for a succession battle that is likely to determine the future course of a church troubled by scandal and declining faith in its traditional strongholds around the world. Rachel Donadio and Elisabetta Povoledo report from Vatican City.
Flying is becoming safer: It will be four years on Tuesday since the last fatal crash in the United States, a record unmatched since propeller planes gave way to the jet more than half a century ago. Jad Mouawad and Christopher Drew report.
Thousands of Afghans have built homes and careers on an influx of foreign money and are fearful that their lives could implode as Western forces disappear. Graham Bowley reports from Kabul.
There are many ways of striking it rich in Brazil, but one strategy may come as a particular surprise in today's economic climate: securing a government job. Simon Romero reports from São Paulo.
Critics in France say a proposal to add school classes on Wednesdays fails to address concerns that French students are trailing those of other European countries. Nicola Clark reports from Paris.
Concern over the euro moved to the forefront Monday as finance ministers of the countries using the currency held their monthly meeting. But this time, with the European Union's recession continuing, the topic was the strength of the euro rather than its many weaknesses. James Kanter reports from Brussels.
The troubled Olkiluoto 3 nuclear plant in Finland will probably not start operating before 2016, the power utility behind the plant said Monday, another delay to a project that is already four years overdue. David Jolly reports.
 FASHION As the Metropolitan Museum of Art announces "Punk: Chaos to Couture," the story fits neatly with the winter 2013 season. Suzy Menkes writes from New York.
 ARTS "No," the Chilean entry in this year's foreign-film race of the Academy Awards, has received praise but also criticism in its home nation. Larry Rohter reports.
 SPORTS Women tennis players, with a few exceptions, have not transitioned successfully from the top of the college game to the top levels of the WTA Tour. Ben Rothenberg reports from Charlottesville, Virginia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ATHLETES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); TENNIS (60%); SPORTS (60%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (54%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (76%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); HOLY SEE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



436 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: The Breakfast Meeting: Amazon Challenges Netflix, and an Advertiser Turns to Cat Videos

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Amazon.com is quietly building a library of exclusive online content to rival Netflix, the champion of streaming media; cat videos are used to sell things rather than simply distract; and a Japanese television show captures the angst of a major lithium-ion battery manufacturer. 

 BODY:
Amazon.com is slowly building a library of streaming television shows and movies to rival that of Netflix, much to the satisfaction of media companies like Time Warner and CBS, Brian Stelter writes. Amazon will not unveil its own original shows until fall at the earliest, but it has spent hundreds of millions of dollars to win exclusive Web rights on shows for its Amazon Prime streaming service, like "Downton Abbey" from PBS and "Falling Skies" from TNT. Amazon is a long way from matching Netflix in terms of TV and movie selection, but parts of the media business already see the company as Pepsi to Netflix's Coke. Other companies, including Google, Sony, Intel and a new venture by Redbox and Verizon, are scrambling for a Snapple or Red Bull. 
Watching cat videos online has become a euphemism for wasting time, even if one is not actually watching popular Web felines like Maru or Henri. Advertisers have turned to the genre to sell Litter Genie, a cat-waste receptacle that neutralizes odors, Andrew Adam Newman reports. The third in a series of irreverent music videos promoting the brand has been released on YouTube (the first two videos have over 1 million views apiece.) A gray tabby named Walter is featured in all three videos and a television spot for Litter Genie.
The plot of the television show "Made in Japan" echoes the very real economic angst of that nation, Hiroko Tabuchi explains. The three-part series, broadcast on NHK, focuses on Takumi Electronics, a fictional company whose lead in television and mobile phones has been eclipsed by more nimble upstarts in China and South Korea. So Takumi Electronics turned to manufacturing more efficient lithium-ion batteries, like the actual company GS Yuasa, which made the batteries that have grounded Boeing's Dreamliner. The show ends with Takumi Electronics teaming up with a Chinese competitor to build safer batteries. The issues with the Dreamliner have yet to be resolved.
ABC won the rights to the first on-camera interview with Amanda Knox, an American college student who was convicted of murdering her housemate in Italy while studying abroad in 2009; the conviction was overturned in 2011. The interview will be conducted by Diane Sawyer, the anchor of ABC's "World News," and will air during prime time on April 30, Brian Stelter writes. Ms. Knox's case attracted a great deal of news coverage because of lurid sexual details attached to the case coupled with her appearance as an attractive girl next door. The interview will coincide with the release of Ms. Knox's book, "Waiting to be Heard," published by HarperCollins.
Univision and ABC News are both backing a new channel called Fusion that will target English-speaking Latinos in the United States, Amy Chozick reports. The channel will premiere this summer and will test whether second-generation Latinos want to watch television created specifically for them. But creating a 24-hour cable channel for a relatively narrow audience with many options in English and Spanish is a risky proposition - studies show that English-speaking Latinos tend to watch the same programs as non-Hispanics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); STREAMING MEDIA (92%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (91%); CATS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BATTERY MFG (86%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); LITERATURE GENRES (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); MURDER (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (60%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (50%) The Breakfast Meeting

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (94%); AMAZON.COM INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (56%); INTEL CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); BOEING CO (53%); GS YUASA CORP (53%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (94%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 6674 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (94%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (94%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS335912 PRIMARY BATTERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3692 PRIMARY BATTERIES, DRY & WET (53%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (53%)

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%); CHINA (74%); JAPAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



437 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: The State of Our Union Is (Fill in the Blank)

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: A look at states of the union, according to the presidents, throughout history. 

 BODY:
You've heard it so many times before: "The state of our union is strong," or some variation thereof. But as The Times's Binyamin Appelbaum notes, that phrasing is a more recent phenomenon. Here's a look at the state of the union, according to the presidents, throughout history from his research.
George Washington, 1795: Every part of the Union displays indications of rapid and various improvement; and with burthens so light as scarcely to be perceived, with resources fully adequate to our present exigencies, with governments founded on the genuine principles of rational liberty, and with mild and wholesome laws, is it too much to say that our country exhibits a spectacle of national happiness never surpassed, if ever before equaled?
James Monroe, 1823: If we compare the present condition of our Union with its actual state at the close of our Revolution, the history of the world furnishes no example of a progress in improvement in all the important circumstances which constitute the happiness of a nation which bears any resemblance to it. 
Andrew Jackson, 1835: In performing my duty at the opening of your present session it gives me pleasure to congratulate you again upon the prosperous condition of our beloved country. 
Franklin Pierce, 1855: It is matter of congratulation that the Republic is tranquilly advancing in a career of prosperity and peace.
James Buchanan, 1860: The Union of the States, which is the source of all these blessings, is threatened with destruction.

Abraham Lincoln, 1862: Since your last annual assembling another year of health and bountiful harvests has passed, and while it has not pleased the Almighty to bless us with a return of peace, we can but press on, guided by the best light He gives us, trusting that in His own good time and wise way all will yet be well.
Andrew Johnson, 1865: It is therefore a source of profound regret that in complying with the obligation imposed upon the President by the Constitution to give to Congress from time to time information of the state of the Union I am unable to communicate any definitive adjustment satisfactory to the American people, of the questions which since the close of the rebellion have agitated the public mind. On the contrary, candor compels me to declare that at this time there is no Union as our fathers understood the term, and as they meant it to be understood by us.
Benjamin Harrison, 1889: There are few transactions in the administration of the Government that are even temporarily held in the confidence of those charged with the conduct of the public business. Every step taken is under the observation of an intelligent and watchful people.The state of the Union is known from day to day, and suggestions as to needed legislation find an earlier voice than that which speaks in these annual communications of the President to Congress.
Theodore Roosevelt, 1901: We are now indeed one Nation, one in fact as well as in name; we are united in our devotion to the flag which is the symbol of national greatness and unity; and the very completeness of our union enables us all, in every part of the country, to glory in the valor shown alike by the sons of the North and the sons of the South in the times that tried men's souls.
Woodrow Wilson, 1918: The year that has elapsed since I last stood before you to fulfill my constitutional duty to give to the Congress from time to time information on the state of the Union has been so crowded with great events, great processes, and great results that I cannot hope to give you an adequate picture of its transactions or of the far-reaching changes which have been wrought of our nation and of the world.
Calvin Coolidge, 1928: No Congress of the United States ever assembled, on surveying the state of the Union, has met with a more pleasing prospect than that which appears at the present time.
Franklin D. Roosevelt, 1941: Therefore, as your President, performing my constitutional duty to "give to the Congress information of the state of the Union," I find it, unhappily, necessary to report that the future and the safety of our country and of our democracy are overwhelmingly involved in events far beyond our borders. 
Harry Truman, 1950: I am happy to be able to report to you today that the state of the Union continues to be good. Our Republic continues to increase in the enjoyment of freedom within its borders, and to offer strength and encouragement to all those who love freedom throughout the world.
Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1957: The State of the Union, at the opening of the 85th Congress continues to vindicate the wisdom of the principles on which this Republic is rounded.
John F. Kennedy, 1963: And today, having witnessed in recent months a heightened respect for our national purpose and power--having seen the courageous calm of a united people in a perilous hour--and having observed a steady improvement in the opportunities and well-being of our citizens--I can report to you that the state of this old but youthful Union, is good. (At 1:37 in video.)
Lyndon Johnson, 1965: This, then, is the state of the Union: Free and restless, growing and full of hope. So it was in the beginning. So it shall always be, while God is willing, and we are strong enough to keep the faith. (At 48:19 in video.)
Johnson, 1967: I have come here tonight to report to you that this is a time of testing for our Nation. (At 0:43 in video.)
Richard Nixon, 1973: The basic state of our Union today is sound, and full of promise.
Gerald Ford, 1975: Today, that freshman Member from Michigan stands where Mr. Truman stood, and I must say to you that the state of the Union is not good: Millions of Americans are out of work. Recession and inflation are eroding the money of millions more. Prices are too high, and sales are too slow. (At 1:47 in video.)
Jimmy Carter, 1979: Tonight, there is every sign that the state of our Union is sound. (At 1:14 in video.)
Ronald Reagan, 1982: And that is why I can report to you tonight that in the near future the state of the Union and the economy will be better-much better-if we summon the strength to continue on the course that we've charted. (At 10:25 in video.)
Reagan, 1986: I am pleased to report the state of our Union is stronger than a year ago and growing stronger each day. (At 2:05 in video.)
Reagan, 1988: Tonight then, we're strong, prosperous, at peace, and we are free. This is the state of our Union. (At 8:22 in video.)
Bill Clinton, 1994: What is the state of our Union? It is growing stronger, but it must be stronger still. With your help and God's help, it will be. (At 1:04:27 in video.)
Clinton, 2000: My fellow Americans, the state of our Union is the strongest it has ever been. (At 6:28 in video.)
George W. Bush, 2002: As we gather tonight, our Nation is at war; our economy is in recession; and the civilized world faces unprecedented dangers. Yet, the state of our Union has never been stronger. (At 0:29 in video.)
Bush, 2005: Tonight, with a healthy, growing economy, with more Americans going back to work, with our Nation an active force for good in the world, the state of our Union is confident and strong. (At 1:23 in video.)
Bush, 2007: We've met challenges and faced dangers, and we know that more lie ahead. Yet we can go forward with confidence, because the State of our Union is strong; our cause in the world is right; and tonight that cause goes on. (At 49:14 in video.)
Barack Obama, 2010: It's because of this spirit, this great decency and great strength, that I have never been more hopeful about America's future than I am tonight. Despite our hardships, our Union is strong. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not allow fear or division to break our spirit. (At 5:27 in video.)
Obama, 2012: The state of our Union is getting stronger. And we've come too far to turn back now. (At 3:37 in video.)

        
10 Questions: David Axelrod
        
Ted Nugent Will Attend State of the Union Address
        
Newtown Survivor to Attend State of the Union Address
        
Rubio to Deliver State of the Union Rebuttal
        
Parties Do Some Convention Spin on Sunday Talk Shows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); LEGISLATION (74%) State of the Union Message (US); The Caucus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



438 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: The Unexpected

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times 

        
The Congressional Budget Office said a surprising slowdown in the growth of health care costs has erased hundreds of billions of dollars in projected spending on Medicare and Medicaid, a development that could have major ramifications for the overall economy, Annie Lowrey reports.
 

        
While many will be watching the president on Tuesday to hear the State of the Union address, others will be watching for signs of the state of Barack Obama, Jackie Calmes writes. Based on reports from White House advisers and associates close to the president, he has an assertiveness, confidence, even cockiness that contrast with the caution, compromise and reserve that he showed for much of his first term.

        
Strong, stronger, strongest - one of those words has been used to describe the union in each of the last 17 State of the Union addresses, even when things were not going so well, Binyamin Appelbaum writes.

        
President Obama bestowed the Medal of Honor on Clinton Romesha, a 31-year-old retired Army staff sergeant, in the East Room of the White House on Monday. He is the fourth living American soldier from the Afghanistan war to receive the honor, Mark Landler reports.
 Around the Web 

        
The auto industry is back and ready to lobby, Politico reports.

        
Desiline Victor, a 102-year-old woman who stood in line for three hours to vote for the president last year, will be another one of Michelle Obama's guests at the State of the Union address, The Washington Post reports.

        
The deadline to submit a question for President Obama's Google Plus Hangout is Wednesday afternoon, The Hill reports. He will answer questions about his State of the Union address in the Thursday Hangout.
 Happenings in Washington 

        
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida will present the Republican response to the president's speech, followed by a separate Tea Party response, to be delivered by Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky.

        
One day after the anniversary of Whitney Houston's death, Madame Tussauds will introduce its wax figure of the singer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICAID (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ARMIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%) The Caucus

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHELLE OBAMA (76%); WHITNEY HOUSTON (50%); MARCO RUBIO (50%); RAND PAUL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013



439 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions: David Axelrod

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: David Axelrod sat down with John Harwood to discuss the president's State of the Union and the state of American politics. 

 BODY:
David Axelrod, President Obama's longtime strategist, has completed his full-time White House service and overseen his last political campaign. But Mr. Axelrod still advises Mr. Obama even as he has started a new Institute of Politics at the University of Chicago.
Shorn of his trademark mustache in a charity fund-raising promotion and at the behest of his wife, Susan, - he says that "it's not coming back" - Mr. Axelrod sat down with John Harwood to discuss Mr. Obama's State of the Union address and the state of American politics in the wake of November's election. What follows is a condensed, edited transcript of their conversation.
 Q. 
How much do you still keep your hands in advising the president, talking to his team as we approach big events like the State of the Union? 
 A. 
He's a friend, they are friends. When they call, I pick up the phone. I'm not involved in the way I was during the campaign or before, obviously, when I was in the White House. But I keep in touch.
 Q. 
What kind of a tool is the State of the Union and how do you try to use it?
 A. 
At this point, the concern should be less about the president's approval rating and his favorability, which are at high levels right now. How do you use that political currency to make the case you need to make? Right now, we have a standoff on these fiscal issues. This is probably the largest audience he's going to have throughout that debate. It can move the needle of public opinion, and that's what moves the needle in Congress. But you have to build on that speech.
 Q. 
How are politics in Washington different because of the election results, and how is the president different?
 A. 
The election result has caused some introspection. Particularly in the Congress, you see Eric Cantor and others trying to redefine the Republican brand a little in the last few weeks. Obstructionism has lost its appeal to many. And certainly, the messages on issues like immigration reform and even gun safety are beginning to permeate there. So, I think this is a feeling-out time. And it is a different kind of time for the president. He's older, he's wiser, he's been through a few rodeos now - knows where the bucking is going to come.
Certainly there's a confidence that comes with the affirmation of the American people. There's no denying that. Any president would take heart in achieving re-election - and by a wider margin than people anticipated.
But I also think a wise president doesn't overreact to that. He understands that these are tough problems and the politics are still difficult.
 Q. 
Do you see the kind of entrenched bitterness between the parties as something that is now a permanent feature of our politics? Or do you see signs that it's part of a cycle and the cycle will change?
 A. 
The first instinct of politicians is survival. And if the Republicans in Congress make a judgment that they as a party can't succeed nationally with a steady diet of obstructionism, then I think things will change. And I sense that there is some of that going on. The problem is you have many members of Congress who will never face a serious general election challenge. They'll only face serious primary challenges. That tends to polarize the Congress. And so, it's going to take the leaders of Congress to say, "You know what? We've got bigger concerns, and we've got to come to some compromise on some of these issues, or we will forever define our party in a way that won't allow us to win a national election again.
 Q. 
Will the window for cooperation close at some point over the next few months?
 A. 
The real question is, what are the judgments that the Republican Party is making about what they need to strengthen their own brand? I would suggest that cooperation, some progress, some demonstration of the ability to get things done is important to them. How long that will go on? I don't know. The rule of thumb is that the first two years are far more promising than the last. And [President Obama] would be wise to proceed on that assumption.
 Q. 
Were you responsible for the "demonization" of Wall Street, and did the president's rhetoric go too far?
 A. 
No, I don't think I was responsible for that. What was responsible for that was irresponsible behavior that helped bring about the greatest financial crisis since the Great Depression. I don't think anybody was, as a strategy, demonizing the business community. We were too busy trying to save the country from the impacts of some irresponsible decisions that a handful of people on Wall Street made.
I understand that there are some raw feelings about some of the debate and discussion during that period. There are times when we could've chosen words more carefully. But I must say, I know a lot of the leaders of the financial community. They seem like tough, resilient people. I don't think we should be focusing on a word here and a word there. Let's focus on constructive ways to move the country forward.
 Q. 
I had another person in business say to me, "You know, the president just doesn't like people who are very financially successful because he thinks their values are wrong, they're pursuing the wrong things." Is that true?
 A. 
I don't think that's true at all. The president respects success and particularly the ingenuity behind that success.
The president admires people who have a good idea, see it through, and make something of value for the economy, for the world, for the country. He may have a different view of people who game the system - and who make great wealth - simply by doing that.
 Q. 
Do you think the budget sequester [across-the-board budget cuts currently scheduled for March 1 unless Congress acts] will take effect?
 A. 
I don't know the answer to whether the sequester will take effect. Washington tends to work on deadlines. So, I think the next three weeks are going to be important. I know that there's a glum mood in Washington about getting something done before March 1st. But I'm still holding out hope that reason will prevail and people will come to the table and do what the country wants them to do, which is compromise in a balanced way and move forward.
Most responsible people in Washington understand that. Most people at home should understand that when you have debt you have to pay, you don't simply say, "We're gonna just cut everything in our household budget by 10%." You decide what's important and you make those adjustments. And that's what we, as a country, have to do.
 Q. 
You helped elect the first African-American president. Is it your view going forward now that there are no identity barriers to winning the presidency? Is the glass ceiling for a woman harder or less hard than it was for an African-American?
 A. 
A glass ceiling is hard until you break it. And that glass ceiling hasn't been broken. But I think Hillary [Rodham Clinton] certainly has the capacity to do that if she runs. There are others. You see these things inexorably shifting. And I'm confident - if not in 2016, then down the line - that barrier will fall and others will.
The younger generation of Americans is a far more tolerant generation. And because of the media age in which we live you're gonna see these barriers fall, one by one, and probably more quickly than anybody anticipates.
 Q. 
What do you hope to accomplish with the Institute of Politics you've created at the University of Chicago?
 A. 
The best thing that I can do at this stage in my life is help encourage young people to get into the public arena, whatever their views. There are so many bright, young people on this campus, many of whom want to contribute but are also suspicious of the political process because of what they've seen. And my goal is to expose them to the many good people that I've met along the way, Republicans and Democrats and people with different points of view, who have performed honorable service in the arena. I want them to become acquainted with how exciting and invigorating the work of moving your community or your state or your country or the world forward is.
And so our goal is to expose them to a lot of practitioners in the field, to put them in internships, to give them a chance to really see the inside of the whole public debate from various vantage points, and then encourage them to jump in.

        
Parties Do Some Convention Spin on Sunday Talk Shows
        
As Gibbs Leaves White House, a Look at His Tenure
        
For Science's Sake, It's 'Mohawk Guy'
        
A 102-Year-Old Face of Voting Delays at the State of the Union
        
The State of Our Union Is (Fill in the Blank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (63%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Axelrod, David; State of the Union Message (US); United States Politics and Government; University of Chicago

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%) University of Chicago

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC CANTOR (58%) Axelrod, David

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



440 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Dissatisfaction With Country's Direction, but Support for Obama's Agenda

BYLINE: DALIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: New polls find continued dissatisfaction with the direction of the country, yet support for several of the policies the president has said he will push in his second term. 

 BODY:
Just ahead of President Obama's State of the Union address Tuesday night, new polls find continued public dissatisfaction with the direction of the country, yet support for several of the policies the president has said he will push in his second term. 
A new CBS News poll found that the economy remains the public's chief concern, with fewer than half of Americans approving of Mr. Obama's handling of it. Most Americans also say the president lacks a clear plan for solving the nation's problems. And 54 percent say the country is on the wrong track.
Yet looking ahead, more than 6 in 10 Americans say it is at least somewhat likely that the president will bring about significant changes to immigration policy and about two-thirds say so about gun policy. 
And on several issues, the CBS News poll finds a majority of Americans are in the president's corner. Most, 59 percent, back a combination of spending cuts and tax increases to reduce the deficit; 53 percent say gun control laws should be made more strict; 53 percent support a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants currently working in the United States; and 71 percent favor carrying out drone strikes against suspected terrorists. 
In a new ABC News/Washington Post poll, a majority of Americans, 56 percent, expressed a negative view of the country's political system. And underscoring the task facing Senator Marco Rubio of Florida as he prepares to deliver the Republican response to Mr. Obama's address, 55 percent say they have an unfavorable view of the policies Congressional Republicans will pursue in the next four years. The president fares better, with 52 percent saying they have a favorable impression of the policies he will pursue in his second term, and 43 percent expressing an unfavorable impression. 
Focusing on Tuesday's night's address, a recent Quinnipiac University poll asked voters what they were most interested in hearing the president discuss. Just over a third cited the economy, more than mentioned any other issue. Coming in second was the federal budget deficit, cited by 20 percent, followed by gun policy, at 15 percent. 
The CBS News poll was conducted Feb. 6 to 10 among 1,148 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted Feb. 6 to 10 among 1,021 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. The Quinnipiac University poll was conducted Jan. 30 to Feb. 4 among 1,772 registered voters and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points. 

        
In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama
        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes
        
New Polls Show Rise in Support for Obama's Handling of Immigration
        
White House Discontinues Jobs Council
        
Obama Seeking 'Political Conquest' of G.O.P., Ryan Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); GUN CONTROL (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TERRORISM (51%) ABC Inc; CBS News; Federal Budget (US); Obama, Barack; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Economy; Polling

ORGANIZATION: ABC Inc; CBS News

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MARCO RUBIO (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



441 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 9269 words

HEADLINE: Live Coverage of Obama's State of the Union Address

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama delivers his State of the Union address Tuesday night and Times reporters are providing live updates and analysis. 

 BODY:
President Obama delivers his State of the Union address Tuesday night and Times reporters are providing live updates and analysis. "It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few," Mr. Obama will say, according to brief excerpts that the White House released Tuesday evening. 
 11:48 P.M. | Rand Paul Delivers Tea Party Response 
In addition to the official Republican response by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, leaders of the Tea Party tapped Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, to deliver the movement's third straight separate address. 
 Though Mr. Rubio focused his response on President Obama, Mr. Paul took on both parties as he pressed the Tea Party movement's case for a radically smaller, more restrained federal government.
 "Both parties have been guilty of spending too much, of protecting their sacred cows, of backroom deals in which everyone up here wins, but every taxpayer loses," he said. "It is time for a new bipartisan consensus. It is time Democrats admit that not every dollar spent on domestic programs is sacred. And it is time Republicans realize that military spending is not immune to waste and fraud."
 Mr. Paul defended the across-the-board spending cuts set to begin March 1 and feared by members of both parties. If anything, he said, the cuts are insufficient.
But Mr. Paul also hoped to take on some voices in the Tea Party movement with an open embrace of immigration law changes.
"We are the party that embraces hard work and ingenuity," he said. "Therefore we must be the party that embraces the immigrant who wants to come to America for a better future. We must be the party who sees immigrants as assets, not liabilities."
 He did issue a classic Tea Party rallying cry: "If Congress refuses to obey its own rules, if Congress refuses to pass a budget, if Congress refuses to read the bills, then I say: Sweep the place clean. Limit their terms and send them home."
 That us a different tone than Mr. Rubio's quieter appeal to comity.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 11:38 P.M. | Rubio Focuses Middle Class as Well as Obama 
The Republican response by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is now competing with chatter about his awkward sip of water during the middle of his speech, but his pointed message about which party treats the middle class better could be the ultimate takeaway.
 "The idea that more taxes and more government spending is the best way to help hardworking middle class taxpayers - that's an old idea that's failed every time it's been tried," said Mr. Rubio, who made at least 16 references to the middle class during his remarks.
 Mr. Rubio kept a sharp focus on President Obama. It was one of many signs throughout the evening that Republicans are still intently fixated on criticizing the president above anything else. He used the speech - one of his biggest steps yet on the national stage - to introduce himself and his own upbringing.
 "Mr. President, I still live in the same working class neighborhood I grew up in. My neighbors aren't millionaires. They're retirees who depend on Social Security and Medicare," Mr. Rubio said. "They're workers who have to get up early tomorrow morning and go to work to pay the bills. They're immigrants, who came here because they were stuck in poverty in countries where the government dominated the economy."
 In Washington, Democrats were quick to criticize Mr. Rubio's remarks, particularly his intense focus on the president and the moment where he interrupted his speech and reached for a bottle of water. But one leading Democratic strategist from Florida - the man who ran Mr. Obama's campaign there last year - warned his Democratic friends that it would be a mistake to underestimate Mr. Rubio.
 "I hope my Dem friends don't use tonight to underestimate @marcorubio," the strategist, Steve Schale, said in a message on Twitter. "He is a prime time player. Trust me."
- Jeff Zeleny 
 10:48 P.M. | Panetta Addresses Troops Proposal 
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, attending his final State of the Union message as a public official, said - not surprisingly - that he supported President Obama's order withdrawing 34,000 American troops from Afghanistan within a year.
But in a statement released by the Pentagon minutes after Mr. Obama finished speaking, Mr. Panetta took indirect aim at Republicans who said earlier in the day that the 50 percent reduction in American force levels was at complete odds with the advice of American commanders on the ground.
The plan to continue a withdrawal of American forces "in a phased approach" over the coming year "was recommended by Gen. John Allen," the outgoing American commander in Afghanistan, Mr. Panetta said.
Mr. Panetta also expressed confidence that the lower troop levels would provide adequate combat power for General Allen's successor, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., who took command of the mission last weekend.
Indirect or not, Mr. Panetta also seemed to contradict comments from White House officials in advance of a visit to Washington last month by President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. In a briefing for reporters, a senior White House official indicated that it was possible that zero American troops would remain in Afghanistan after the end of the NATO mission in December 2014. Any enduring presence remains a matter of negotiation.
"We will maintain a long-term commitment to Afghanistan - including through the continued training and equipping of Afghan forces and counterterrorism operations against al Qaeda and their affiliates," Mr. Panetta said.
It is difficult to imagine how that could be done with zero American troops on the ground.
- Thom Shanker 
 10:42 P.M. | Rubio, en Español 
Networks are carrying Senator Marco Rubio's English-language rebuttal, but the Florida Republican also taped a version in Spanish as his party seeks to draw in more Hispanic voters.
- The New York Times 
 10:33 P.M. | Republicans Skeptical of Presidential 'Follow-Up' 
Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois, said he liked some of the ideas he heard in the president's speech - fixing the education system, having a conversation about entitlements. But he was skeptical Mr. Obama would put much heft behind his words.
"This is my third one, and in my mind there's a lot of talk with little follow-up," he said. 
"Maybe I've grown a little cynical," Mr. Kinzinger added, saying he wanted to see "follow-up in action."
Consider Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, another skeptic, or perhaps, a grinch. 
"It's more like a Christmas list than anything else," Mr. Scott said, when asked about Mr. Obama's speech. "Some of the things he'd like to accomplish, and all that without adding a dollar to the debt or deficit, which tells me that we're looking at substantial increases in spending."
- Ashley Parker 
 10:27 P.M. | A Focus on Cybersecurity 
President Obama addressed the country's preparedness for a cyberattack during his State of the Union address, saying that he had signed an executive order on Tuesday that called for more information sharing between the government and companies that oversee the country's critical computer infrastructure. 
While it may sound serious, the executive order is not very powerful and was certainly not the administration's first choice. Last year, the administration prodded Congress to pass sweeping cybersecurity legislation that would give the Department of Homeland Security the power to enforce minimum standards on the computers that oversee critical parts of the country's infrastructure. Senate Republicans - led by Mr. Obama's 2008 rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona - killed the bill. As you will see in this excerpt from the president's address below, he is still hoping Congress will act on this matter.
"America must also face the rapidly growing threat from cyberattacks. Now we know hackers steal people's identities and infiltrate private e-mails. We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets. Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, our air traffic control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy. That's why, earlier today, I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyberdefenses by increasing information sharing, and developing standards to protect our national security, our jobs and our privacy. But now, Congress must act as well, by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks and deter attacks. This is something we should be able to get done on a bipartisan basis."
- Michael S. Schmidt 
 10:20 P.M. | Bipartisan Commission to Improve Voting 
Two of the pre-eminent election lawyers in the country - Robert Bauer, a Democrat, and Ben Ginsberg, a Republican - will lead a presidential commission aimed at improving how Americans cast their ballots.
President Obama devoted several minutes of his State of the Union address to the nation's voting system, the latest in a string of high-profile speeches he has used to draw attention to the issue. Long lines on Election Day last year caught the president's eye, and he has used several opportunities to address the matter.
"When any Americans - no matter where they live or what their party - are denied that right simply because they can't afford to wait for five, six, seven hours just to cast their ballot, we are betraying our ideals," Mr. Obama said.
To make his point, the White House invited Desiline Victor of North Miami, Fla., to the speech on Tuesday night. At 102 years old, Ms. Victor was told that she might have to wait in line for as long as six hours last fall. (She ultimately waited for three before being advised to return later.)
The Bauer-Ginsberg commission will begin meeting soon.
- Jeff Zeleny 
 10:20 P.M. | A Lead Up to the Speech Without the TV Chatter 
At 9 p.m. Eastern time the nation's attention - at least on the major broadcast and cable news networks - turned squarely to Washington for President Obama's State of the Union address. But for much of the evening, the impending speech was overshadowed by news coverage of a standoff between the authorities and Christopher J. Dorner, a former Los Angeles police officer who was holed up in a forest cabin in California.
Thus there was something unusual on television in the hours leading up to the president's annual speech: relatively little chatter about what he may say and how he may say it.
The network evening newscasts at 6:30 p.m., though all anchored from Washington, led with the standoff in California. The cable news channels Fox News, MSNBC and CNN similarly focused on the situation out West, especially during the 8 p.m. hour - the traditional pregame hour for presidential addresses - when the cabin was set ablaze. 
Observers wondered whether the networks would show some sort of split screen - the president on one side, the standoff on the other side. But the cabin had essentially burnt to the ground by 9 p.m. Eastern, suggesting an end to the standoff. CNN decided to shift coverage of the situation to its sister channel HLN. Other channels advised viewers that they would provide an update on Mr. Dorner after the address.
"If this situation is resolved - we're keeping a close eye on it - we'll let you know following the conclusion of the president's remarks," Brian Williams said on NBC. 
Sure enough, several news organizations reported during the speech that a body believed to be Mr. Dorner's had been recovered from the charred cabin. The organizations quickly posted the news on their Web sites and social media accounts but did not interrupt the president.
- Brian Stelter 
 10:14 P.M. | President Celebrates Determined Voter 
In the first lady's box at the State of the Union address on Tuesday night, Desiline Victor, 102, will be seated among Michelle Obama's guests as a symbol of voters who faced long delays as they tried to cast ballots in last year's elections.
Ms. Victor, a Haitian immigrant, went to vote to re-elect President Obama on Oct. 28, the first day of early voting in Florida. On that hot Sunday, she stood in line for three hours at her local library in North Miami, before a poll worker advised her to return later when lines would be shorter and she could get assistance in her native Haitian Creole language, which she did.
"No one should have to wait in line that long," Ms. Victor said on Tuesday through an interpreter, Dabie Pierre-Louis, her godson's wife, in a telephone interview from her hotel room in Washington. "But I was going to persist because I really wanted to vote." 
Read more
- Ashley Southall 
 10:11 P.M. | Obama Presses for 'Path to Citizenship' 
 Even though Mr. Obama has said that an overhaul of the immigration laws is a top priority for him in coming months, in a speech that was on the long side he devoted only a few minutes to the issue. The president once again framed reform as an effort that would strengthen economic growth, because he said it would "harness the talents and ingenuity" of immigrants. 
 Mr. Obama reiterated that he wanted "a responsible pathway to earned citizenship" for illegal immigrants, although he did not get into the weeds of specifying how many of the 11 million of those immigrants in the country would get legal status. He said illegal immigrants would have to pass background checks, pay back taxes and a fine, learn English and go to the back of the line behind immigrants who have tried to come to the United States legally. 
 In his brief comments, however, Mr. Obama insisted that reform should include "strong border security." He cited his administration's accomplishments, but he did not insist the job was already done. He said Congress could build on his border enforcement advances, including reducing illegal crossings to the lowest level in four decades. 
 The president conveyed his sense that the differences among lawmakers over a comprehensive overhaul are not great and that the debate in Congress could move quickly, with a vote "in the next few months." 
 Many Republicans are not so optimistic about a swift agreement on a notoriously thorny issue. But in his reference to the border, Mr. Obama left a door open for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, the rising Republican star who will deliver his party's rebuttal. In negotiations in a bipartisan Senate group that is working to draft a comprehensive bill, Mr. Rubio has insisted that the border must be more secure before immigrants could move on to a path to citizenship. 
- Julia Preston 
 10:07 P.M. | Different, but Determined to Be Heard 
Near the front of the House chamber, three members of Congress who struggle more than most to move around nonetheless managed to applaud and affirm the president as he spoke.
Senator Mark Kirk, Republican of Illinois, who suffered a stroke and has limited use of his legs and left hand, signaled his approval by slapping his right hand on his thigh. When he was really moved, he stood and thumped his cane on the floor.
Representative Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, who lost both legs when her helicopter was shot down in Iraq, used one arm to brace herself on her wheelchair and the other to steady herself with her cane as she rose frequently for standing ovations.
Representative Jim Langevin, Democrat of Rhode Island, who was left paralyzed from a gun accident and cannot use his legs at all, clapped the heels of his hands together using the limited motion he has in his arms.
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 10:06 P.M. | The Origin of 'No Matter Who You Love' 
 The phrase "no matter who you love'' has become a staple of President Obama's speeches ever since he came out in favor of same-sex marriage last May, during his re-election campaign. It is his way of saying he supports the right of gays and lesbians to marry, without explicitly saying so.
He used the phrase in Seattle the day after he made his historic announcement. And then he used it again during a speech in August 2012 at Iowa State University, asking, "Will this be an America where no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, no matter where you come from, no matter who you love, you can pursue your own happiness and you can make it here in America if you try?''
He skipped the phrase during his recent Inaugural address. "Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well," the president said then. 
 But "no matter who you love'' was back Tuesday night in the State of the Union address: 
 "It is our unfinished task,'' Mr. Obama declared, "to restore the basic bargain that built this country - the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead, no matter where you come from, what you look like or who you love."
- Sheryl Gay Stolberg 
 10:05 P.M. | Energy Security Trust Could Tap Oil Revenues 
In proposing an Energy Security Trust, to be raised from oil and gas royalty revenues that the government collects from drilling on land it owns, Mr. Obama was proposing to tap a rich vein. The Congressional Budget Office estimated last summer that revenue from oil and gas leases on federal lands and offshore would come to $150 billion over the next decade. The amount will depend in part on the market prices for oil and gas and on how much is produced.
Revenues from those wells was once used to buy oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve but now is available for other purposes. While there may be political appeal in dedicating it to finding alternatives to oil, redirecting it would reduce revenues available for other purposes. 
 Energy experts, including former government officials, say it is hard to calculate just how much the federal government spends now on seeking alternatives to oil as a transportation fuel. The Energy Department has provided billions in loan guarantees for that purpose, some of it to battery manufacturers in an effort to foster electric cars, but those are a major expense only if the borrowers default. Likewise the Agriculture Department has given loan guarantees to companies that seek to make ethanol from conventional and nonconventional feedstocks. There is a welter of incentive programs for everything from biorefineries to gasoline stations that retool to sell ethanol. And there are costs that the federal government has imposed on consumers - for example, by encouraging car manufacturers to make vehicles that can run on 85 percent ethanol.
 The Energy Department spends money to support fuel research at its national laboratories and doles out research money to outside labs and companies. And the Pentagon spent about $21 million in the last fiscal year on alternative fuels.
 The president's call to double the generation of electricity from renewable sources by 2020 will face hurdles. Mr. Obama said he wanted to make the renewable tax credit permanent. Renewing that just for this year for wind energy was a cliffhanger struggle, strongly opposed by companies that generate electricity through other means. And a very sharp increase in wind power would require new electric transmission lines, which are hard to get permits for.
- Matthew L. Wald 
 10:00 P.M. | Obama Pledges More Transparency on Secret Operations 
With his aggressive program to hunt and kill suspected terrorists under new scrutiny, President Obama promised to work with Congress for better oversight, control and openness for the secret operations. He gave no details but said he would "engage with Congress to ensure not only that our targeting, detention and prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks and balances, but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American people and to the world." 
Greater transparency would be a notable shift; he continues to fight in court to keep elements of his counterterrorism operations secret and has prosecuted far more government officials for leaking to the news media than any other president. 
The president also claimed that "we have kept Congress fully informed of our efforts" in counterterrorism. Many lawmakers would dispute that. While it is true that the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department have generally kept Senate and House committees informed of their operations overseas, the administration has kept the legal memorandums governing drone strikes and other classified operations under wraps. 
Only last week did the Justice Department allow access for members of the intelligence committees - but not their staffs - to 2010 legal opinions justifying the killing of the American-born radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who died in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011. The committees had sought access to the legal memos for many months.
Many security experts would agree with Mr. Obama's assertion that "the organization that attacked us on 9/11 is a shadow of its former self," and the diminished terrorist threat is one reason his speech could focus largely on domestic economic issues. He acknowledged the "evolving" terrorist threat from offshoots of Al Qaeda in countries like Yemen, Libya, Somalia and Mali but said it could be countered without sending "tens of thousands of our sons and daughters" to fight.
Using the usual euphemistic language, he pledged to keep up the lethal strikes from drones and other weapons that were a signature of his first term. "Through a range of capabilities, we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists who pose the gravest threat to Americans," he said.
- Scott Shane 
 9:56 P.M. | Troop Proposal a Balancing Act for Obama 
President Obama's decision to remove half of the 66,000 American troops in Afghanistan by this time next year represents a careful balancing of political interests and military requirements. 
 The decision, which administration officials disclosed on Tuesday and which Mr. Obama planned to highlight in his State of the Union address, enables the White House to say that slightly more than half of the American force - 34,000 troops - will be out of Afghanistan by the end of February 2014.
But it also gives the military commanders in Afghanistan flexibility in determining the pace of the reductions and will enable them to retain a substantial force until after the next fighting season, which ends in October. That, according to administration officials, satisfies one of the major concerns of Gen. John R. Allen, who recently left his post as the top commander in Afghanistan. Read more
- Michael Gordon and Mark Landler 
 9:52 P.M. | Proposal Would Make Minimum Wage Highest in Decades 
President Obama's call to raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour would make the federal minimum wage higher than the state minimum wage everywhere but in the Washington State, whose minimum wage is $9.19 per hour, according to Labor Department statistics.
 Washington State, which adjusts its minimum wage based on inflation and the Consumer Price Index, raised its minimum wage by 15 cents an hour, to $9.19 from $9.04, in January. The White House said that the president would call on Congress to raise the federal minimum wage in stages so, that it reaches $9 an hour in 2015, and index it for inflation, meaning it would slowly rise along with the cost of living. 
If enacted, the measure would lift the wages of about 15 million low-income workers, the White House estimated, and raise thousands of families above the federal poverty line. The $9 minimum wage would be the highest in more than three decades, accounting for inflation.
- Michael Cooper and Annie Lowrey 
 9:51 P.M. | Minimum Wage Has Failed to Keep Pace With Inflation 
Last year The Times looked at changes in the minimum wage over the last several decades. In brief, the federal minimum wage has failed to keep pace with inflation in recent decades, but increases in the minimum wage in some states have helped lift the effective minimum wage:
... the minimum wage has risen, even after adjusting for inflation, over the last 20 years. The reason it is so much lower now than in the late 1960s is that it declined so much from the late '60s through the late '80s. The effective minimum wage today - a national average taking into account both the federal and state minimums - is about $7.55, which is more than 10 percent higher in inflation-adjusted terms than the effective minimum in 1990.
- The New York Times 
 9:46 P.M. | Click: A Warm Reception 
- The New York Times 
 9:43 P.M. | Large Gap to Fill on Education 
In calling for all 50 states to provide high-quality preschool for every 4-year-old in the country, the president is asking to fill a large gap. 
In the 2010-11 school year, the latest year for which data is available, 28 percent of all 4-year-olds in the United States were enrolled in a state-financed preschool program, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research. In that year, according to the institute, state funding for pre-K decreased by $60 million. 
Although more students are involved in programs run under the auspices of Head Start, community groups or private programs, there are still millions of children who are not enrolled in any kind of program at all. What's more, quality will be difficult to achieve. In its report on the state of pre-K, the institute noted that "data from the past decade indicate a longer-term trend of eroding quality and the gradual substitution of inexpensive child care for early education."
The President also proposed incentivizing full-day Kindergarten policies. Despite the conventionally accepted definition of public schooling starting in kindergarten, only 14 states and the District of Columbia mandate kindergarten attendance, according to the Education Commission of the States. Eighteen states have statutes setting a minimum number of hours for full-day kindergarten. 
- Motoko Rich 
 9:39 P.M. | A Closer Look at Manufacturing 
As the president noted, the economy has added about half a million manufacturing jobs since January 2010. But there are still almost three million fewer manufacturing jobs than existed a decade ago.
Moreover, a wide range of economists see little prospect of a broad revival in manufacturing employment. American manufacturers have survived and even thrived by using labor more efficiently.
That's not to say that investment in manufacturing is misplaced. There is a growing body of economic research supporting the idea that manufacturing has outsize importance to the economy, in part because making things appears to encourage innovation.
But a recent study by the McKinsey Global Institute concluded that in mature economies, "Manufacturing promotes innovation, productivity and trade more than growth and employment."
A recent study suggests that Mr. Obama's determination to increase manufacturing employment also is at odds with his commitment to increased free trade. It found that cementing trade relations with China reduced manufacturing employment in the United States by about four million jobs between 2001 and 2007.
- Binyamin Appelbaum 
 9:35 P.M. | Obama Pledges to Act on Climate Change 
President Obama repeated the pledge from his second inaugural address to make serious inroads on climate change in his second term, as he put it, "for the sake of our children and our future."
He cited evidence that the planet was already warming, noting that the 12 hottest years on record have come since 1997. He said that drought, wildfires and storms like Sandy were becoming more frequent and more severe.
"The good news is," Mr. Obama said according to prepared remarks, "we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving strong economic growth. I urge this Congress to pursue a bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will. "
Mr. McCain, the Republican senator from Arizona, is no longer interested in pursuing a cap-and-trade program for reducing carbon emissions. Mr. Lieberman, the former Democratic and Independent senator from Connecticut, is no longer in Congress.
The president said that if bipartisan Congressional action on climate change is not possible - and it almost certainly is not - he would use his executive branch authority to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to encourage greater use of renewable fuels and to double energy efficiency of appliances, heating and cooling equipment and buildings by 2020.
 Mr. Obama is also directing executive branch agencies to step up efforts to fortify the nation against the impacts of climate change, such as those seen from Hurricane Sandy and other recent severe weather events.
 Left unstated was whether or when he intends to invoke the most significant power he has to cut climate-altering emissions - using the Clean Air Act to require operators of existing fossil fuel-fired power plants to reduce carbon pollution. Nor did he give any sign about whether he will approve or reject the Keystone XL pipeline that would carry heavy crude from Canadian oil sands formations to Gulf Coast refineries. Environmental advocates have made stopping the pipeline a major priority and a test of the president's seriousness in dealing with climate change. 
 Bill McKibben, a longtime environmental campaigner and organizer of a number of anti-Keystone pipeline rallies in Washington, including one scheduled for this Sunday, said he was happy that Mr. Obama was again talking about climate change "after the long, odd silence of the campaign," during which global warming was barely mentioned by either candidate.
"The test of that rhetoric," Mr. McKibben said, "will be what he does about the purest, simplest test: the Keystone XL pipeline, with its freight of nearly a million barrels a day of the dirtiest oil on earth."
- John Broder 
 9:00 P.M. | Ribbons as Reminders of Shootings 
President Obama's State of the Union address was to unfold before a tableau of reminders of the rash of mass shootings spurring action on gun control.
Lawmakers - mostly Democrats but Republicans as well - sported lapel ribbons color-coded to match a massacre. Green ribbons, which dominated, signified the school color of Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.; black and white ribbons signified the Tucson shooting that nearly took the life of one of the House's own, former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 8:58 P.M. | In Halls of Congress, Daily Links to Gun Violence 
As the House galleries filled with people who have been affected by gun violence, there were other reminders of the damage that firearms can inflict - ones that are present in the halls of the Capitol every day.
A number of members of Congress have tragic personal stories involving guns, some well known and others less so.
The father of Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, shot himself and committed suicide in 1972.
Representative Jackie Speier was shot five times when she accompanied her boss, who was at the time a congressman from the San Francisco area, to Jim Jones's compound in Guyana in 1978. The congressman, Leo Ryan, died along with more than 900 others after Mr. Jones and his henchmen poisoned their followers and opened fire on Mr. Ryan's entourage, who were visiting on a fact-finding mission.
Representative Jim Langevin, Democrat of Rhode Island, was paralyzed at age 16 after a police officer accidentally fired his .45 automatic, sending a bullet through his neck and severing his spinal cord. (Because of a campaign led by Mr. Langevin, around 20 members of Congress donated their gallery tickets to the State of the Union to people who have personal histories with gun violence.)
Representative Ron Barber, Democrat of Arizona, was shot at the same time as a gunman in Tuscon tried to kill Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman. Mr. Barber, who sustained bullet wounds to the groin and cheek, ran for Ms. Giffords's seat after she left office. He spent months in physical therapy.
There are others who have had loved ones killed by guns. Carolyn McCarthy, Democrat of New York, lost her husband in the 1993 Long Island Rail Road rampage that also critically wounded her son. The 20-year-old nephew of Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, was shot to death in his apartment in 2011. Bobby L. Rush, Democrat of Illinois, lost his 29-year-old son to a shooting in 1999.
- Jeremy W. Peters 
 8:54 P.M. | Justices and Senators Arrive 
And then they were off. 
Minutes before the president was to begin, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg of the Supreme Court - walking slowly and wearing a nearly floor-length red coat - and Chief Justice John Roberts made their way over to the House chamber.
Then came the senators just moments later, walking two by two - sometimes with bipartisan dates.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, walked alongside Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, chatted with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York.
- Ashley Parker 
 8:52 P.M. | A History of Gun Proposals in the State of the Union 
Franklin D. Roosevelt railed against the dangers posed by "coldblooded shooting" in 1934. Lyndon B. Johnson urged Congress to "stop the trade in mail-order murder" in 1968. Gerald Ford said he wanted to "make it harder to obtain cheap guns for criminal purposes" in 1976.
 The problem of gun violence has been mentioned in State of the Union speeches on and off for decades, but President Obama is expected to use his address Tuesday night to make the biggest call for new gun control laws since Bill Clinton, who made it a repeated theme of his speeches. (After the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords in Tucson in 2011, Mr. Obama called for "working together," not new gun laws.)
 President Clinton called on Congress to pass the Brady bill, requiring background checks for many gun purchases, in his 1993 State of the Union address, urging lawmakers to "protect our families against the violent crime which terrorizes our people and which tears our communities apart." 
The following year Mr. Clinton called on Congress to ban assault weapons. 
 "I want to say something about this issue,'' he said "Hunters must always be free to hunt. Law-abiding adults should always be free to own guns and protect their homes. I respect that part of our culture; I grew up in it. But I want to ask the sportsmen and others who lawfully own guns to join us in this campaign to reduce gun violence. I say to you, I know you didn't create this problem, but we need your help to solve it. There is no sporting purpose on earth that should stop the United States Congress from banishing assault weapons that outgun police and cut down children."
 But some members of Congress paid a political price for those votes, as Mr. Clinton acknowledged in his 1995 speech, after Republicans won control of the House. "I don't think it's a secret to anybody in this room that several members of the last Congress who voted for that aren't here tonight because they voted for it,'' he said. "And I know, therefore, that some of you who are here because they voted for it are under enormous pressure to repeal it. I just have to tell you how I feel about it."
 "The members of Congress who voted for that bill and I would never do anything to infringe on the right to keep and bear arms to hunt and to engage in other appropriate sporting activities,'' he said. "I've done it since I was a boy, and I'm going to keep right on doing it until I can't do it anymore. But a lot of people laid down their seats in Congress so that police officers and kids wouldn't have to lay down their lives under a hail of assault weapon attack, and I will not let that be repealed. I will not let it be repealed."
 In 1999 Mr. Clinton heralded the bill's success. "The Brady bill has stopped a quarter million felons, fugitives and stalkers from buying handguns,'' he said. "And now, the murder rate is the lowest in 30 years and the crime rate has dropped for six straight years."
 Earlier presidents had other prescriptions. 
 President Ford said in 1976 that "another major threat to every American's person and property is the criminal carrying a handgun."
"The way to cut down on the criminal use of guns is not to take guns away from the law-abiding citizen, but to impose mandatory sentences for crimes in which a gun is used, make it harder to obtain cheap guns for criminal purposes, and concentrate gun control enforcement in high-crime areas,'' he said. 
 In 1968, the year Congress passed a major gun control act, President Johnson mentioned the issue in his State of the Union speech, saying. "I urge the Congress to stop the trade in mail-order murder, to stop it this year by adopting a proper gun control law."
 And in 1934, the year Congress passed the National Firearms Act, President Roosevelt urged action in his speech, saying "crimes of organized banditry, coldblooded shooting, lynching and kidnapping have threatened our security."
"These violations of ethics and these violations of law call on the strong arm of government for their immediate suppression,'' Mr. Roosevelt said. "They call also on the country for an aroused public opinion."
- Michael Cooper 
 8:52 P.M. | Sans Legal Status, but Not 'Illegal,' in the Chamber 
At least two immigrants who do not have any legal status in the United States will attend the State of the Union address, where President Obama is expected to speak about his push to overhaul the immigration laws this year. But as an example of how tricky and inscrutable those laws can be, neither of the two are illegal immigrants. 
Alan Aleman, who will sit with Michelle Obama in her box, is a student from Las Vegas who was born in Mexico. He is one of the young people who call themselves Dreamers, after a bill, which the president supports, that would open a path to citizenship specifically for undocumented youths. 
After growing up in this country without papers, Mr. Aleman was one of the first people last year to receive a deportation deferral under a program started by Mr. Obama, according to a White House news release. Mr. Aleman has a legal identity document and a work permit, but under the terms of the program he still has no official legal immigration status. Mr. Aleman also attended Mr. Obama's recent immigration speech in Las Vegas. 
Another Mexican immigrant, Gabino Sanchez, will attend with Representative Luis Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois who is one of the most vocal advocates in the House for a comprehensive overhaul. Mr. Sanchez, 28, is in deportation proceedings in South Carolina. But while his case is moving through immigration court, Mr. Sanchez was granted a work permit, and with that he got a South Carolina driver's license, Mr. Sanchez said by telephone this evening. So for now he is not here illegally, and he intends to apply for a deportation deferral. 
Mr. Sanchez, a landscaping laborer, said he was a little nervous about attending the speech. Mr. Gutierrez, who has been helping Mr. Sanchez with his case, provided a dress shirt and jacket for him. "It's not easy, all this excitement," Mr. Sanchez said in Spanish. "I hope they will do something to fix the immigration problems in this country, because people are still being deported." 
- Julia Preston 
 8:42 P.M. | For Obama, a New Chief Speech Writer 
President Obama is delivering his fourth State of the Union address. Cody Keenan is writing his first.
 The speech Tuesday night represents the debut of Mr. Keenan as the president's chief speechwriter. He wrote it with an assist from Jon Favreau, the departing White House wordsmith, but aides say that Mr. Keenan was the lead writer and will be at Mr. Obama's side as he travels to Capitol Hill. Mr. Favreau will be back in the West Wing, watching on television with other advisers.
 Mr. Keenan, 32, is a Chicago native who has been on Team Obama since the presidential campaign began in 2007. He rose through the ranks, from campaign intern to junior White House speechwriter when Mr. Obama took office in 2009.
 For the last two years, he has been a deputy to Mr. Favreau. His most notable speech - until Tuesday night - was the address that Mr. Obama delivered in Tucson after the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords.
 But even though he is the lead speechwriter, his words are often rewritten by the man behind the lectern: Mr. Obama. That was the case during the 2011 Arizona speech, he said.
 "The truth is, President Obama rewrote a lot of it," Mr. Keenan told Crosscurrents, the magazine of the College of Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University, his alma mater. "We don't always hit the sweet spot, but the president knocked that one out of the park. It was one of those moments that reminded me why I chose to work for him in the first place."
- Jeff Zeleny 
 8:36 P.M. | For Some Senators, Speech Night Doubles as Date Night 
Less an hour before the State of the Union address, bipartisanship may not exactly have been in the air, but love certainly was.
Just off the Senate chamber, a parade of senators wandered by, many accompanied by their spouses. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, walked by holding hands with his wife. Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont who caucuses with the Democrats, came through with his arm around his wife. And Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, was accompanied by his wife, who turned heads in a fun, stop sign-red dress.
- Ashley Parker 
 8:30 P.M. | Energy Secretary Steven Chu the Designated Survivor 
At every State of the Union address, one cabinet official is told not to attend, so that in case of catastrophe, someone in the line of succession specified by the Constitution will survive. 
This year, according to a White House official, it is Stephen Chu, the secretary of energy. (The holder of that job is normally 15th on the list, behind the vice president, the speaker of the house, the president pro tempore of the Senate, and the heads of 11 cabinet agencies created before the Energy Department. At the moment, he is up to 12th, because three agencies do not have heads confirmed by the Senate - Treasury, Commerce and Labor.)
According to the Congressional Research Service, after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, Congressional leadership began designating two members from each chamber, representing both parties, to remain absent as well.
Dr. Chu may not mind being told to stay away; he has announced that he is leaving his job by the end of the month, to return to California.
- Matthew L. Wald 
 8:26 P.M. | Video: 10 Questions for Axelrod 

David Axelrod, until recently President Obama's longtime strategist, sat down with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC to discuss President Obama's State of the Union address and the state of American politics in the wake of November's election. (You can also read a condensed transcript.)
 8:23 P.M. | Senators Break Bread Before Speech 
Before the State of the Union speech came the state of the senators' stomachs, as they loaded up on sautéed shrimp, asparagus, stuffing and mini ham sandwiches. The bipartisan group of senators entered one room off the Senate chamber, and emerged with their plates full as they wandered over to the ornate Senate Reception Room, where the dinner was being held.
"Light-hearted," quipped Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, when asked about the mood at the dinner. Turning more serious, he said that in President Obama's address, "I'd like to hear a good ending to Afghanistan, wind the war down in a responsible way, I'd like to hear a pitch for immigration reform."
As the dinner crowd grew, Senate aides scrambled to find more available space to house the senators and their spouses and guests. But for gawkers - read: reporters - the main action was in the hallway, as senators, now with melting ice cream sundaes, wandered between rooms and made small talk in the shadow of the Ohio Clock. 
At one point, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, saw Mr. Graham and with a boisterous, "Hey Lindsey!" began pow-wowing with him in a doorway. (Both senators are part of a bipartisan group of eight trying to overhaul the nation's immigration system, and both sit on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is set to hold its first hearing on immigration Wednesday, so our best guess is that the conversation might have been immigration-related.)
Moments later, when Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, passed by, Mr. Schumer called out: "I heard you had a very good talk! We'll meet tomorrow. We'll get there."
"You're my man!" Mr. Schumer added.
"You never heard that," Mr. Manchin said, jokingly, turning to a handful of lurking reporters.
(Again, Mr. Schumer refused to disclose the topic, but our best guess is gun control.)
When Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, emerged carrying his dinner, a reporter asked if he was ready for the response to the president's State of the Union he was set to deliver. "I hope so," he said, before heading onto the dining room.
- Ashley Parker 
 8:18 P.M. | First Lady's Guests Include an Obamacare Beneficiary 
 Among those planning to attend the State of the Union speech as Michelle Obama's guests was Abby Schanfield of Minneapolis, a beneficiary of the new health care law.
 Ms. Schanfield, a recent graduate of the University of Minnesota, was born with a rare parasitic disease known as toxoplasmosis. She said she had benefited from a provision of the law that allows young adults to stay on their parents' insurance policies.
 "Without the Affordable Care Act," Ms. Schanfield said, "my life would be very uncertain and very scary."
 The White House says that more than three million people have benefited from that provision, one of the most popular in the law.
 Ms. Schanfield said her prospects were brighter because the law prohibits insurance companies from turning away people with pre-existing conditions. It could be difficult for her to obtain insurance without that provision, which takes effect next year.
 When she was 10 months old, Ms. Schanfield said, she needed neurosurgery to install a shunt to drain cerebrospinal fluid that was collecting on her brain. She has had operations to replace the device four times and may need similar procedures every couple of years. 
 "There's no cure at this point," Ms. Schanfield says in a video posted at the Web site of the Department of Health and Human Services. "It's going to be the rest of my life."
 As a result of her condition, she said, she began to lose sight in her left eye when she was 17 years old. She has had surgery and received treatment to avoid losing all sight in the eye.
 Ms. Schanfield, who has been active in a local advocacy group, Take Action Minnesota, said she had always had health insurance, thanks to her parents, and had received excellent care.
 But she said, "There was a point before the Affordable Care Act was passed - - I was very concerned about my future and whether I'd be able to access care."
 Now Ms. Schanfield said, "Given that the Affordable Care Act has passed into law, I have a world available to me."
- Robert Pear 
 7:59 P.M. | Guests Include Those Affected by Gun Violence 
 From a police officer who was shot last summer responding to a shooting at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin to the parents of a 15-year-old girl who was shot last month in Chicago to a first-grade teacher at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., the guest list for this year's State of the Union address was heavy with people whose lives have been upended by gun violence. 
 If the number of people at the speech who had been touched by violence was high, their presence was hardly unusual: in recent years the inclusion of shooting victims as guests at the Capitol has become a somewhat grim State of the Union tradition. 
Representative Gabrielle Giffords received an emotional reception from her colleagues at last year's speech, which she attended just days after announcing that she would leave Congress to concentrate on recovering from the injuries she sustained when she was shot in Tucson the year before. In 2011 Michelle Obama sat with the family of Christina-Taylor Green, a 9-year-old who was killed in the same Tucson shooting. In 2010 Mrs. Obama sat with Sgt. Kimberly Munley and Senior Sgt. Mark Todd, the military police officers who were credited with stopping a shooting rampage at Fort Hood. 
The tradition goes back further, though.
A survivor of the Virginia Tech shooting, Kevin Sterne, was a guest of Laura Bush at the speech in 2008. Tom Mauser, whose son, Daniel, was killed in the Columbine High School shooting, sat with Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2000. And James S. Brady - the press secretary injured in an assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan - received a standing ovation in 1994 when he attended the speech and President Clinton spoke about the new gun control law that bore his name. 
This year, though, was different. Members of Congress who support new gun control legislation banded together to give the one ticket for the speech they each get to people affected by gun violence. Organizers said that 31 members of Congress did so, and said that they hoped their presence would spur action on new gun measures.
- Michael Cooper 
 7:48 P.M. | Criticism From the Hill for Obama's Troops Proposal 
Even before President Obama's motorcade left for Capitol Hill, the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services Committee released a statement criticizing plans to order a 50 percent cut in the number of American troops in Afghanistan, now at 66,000, within a year.
"In a few weeks, a new fighting season will begin," said Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the committee chairman. "What surprises me most about the information I am receiving from the Pentagon is the president's decision to halve the U.S. troops during the same year that the Afghan forces will be in the lead across the entire country for the first time."
Mr. McKeon's statement praised Mr. Obama for ordering the troop increase, or surge, into Afghanistan, which ended last autumn. But he cautioned that "our hard-fought gains are fragile and reversible."
The statement said military commanders had hoped to sustain "a significant military capability through this fighting season," a number the statement said could be as high as 60,000.
"Tonight, when the president unveils his plans to the American people, he needs to explain what caused him to disregard that perspective and approach," Mr. McKeon said.
- Thom Shanker 
 7:34 P.M. | House Members Turned Center Aisle Stalkers 
Maybe for as long as presidents have delivered their State of the Union addresses in person, there have been members of the House of Representatives willing to sacrifice for a piece of the action. But the addition of television has created a peculiar spectacle: the center-aisle stalkers, lawmakers who grab a seat along the path the president takes to the lectern to make sure they can grab his hand and a moment in the camera.
President Obama's address Tuesday was no different. Representative Sanford Bishop, Democrat of Georgia, sat in an aisle seat in the House chamber for much of the day. By 5:15 p.m., nearly four hours before the president's entrance, a gaggle had already formed, and it was bipartisan. Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas and one of the president's most colorful, vociferous critics, held court with Democrats he usually jousts with.
Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, chatted amiably with Representative Al Green, Democrat of Texas, center aisle seats secured. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, another Texas Democrat and a longtime fixture on the center aisle on State of the Union night, had taken up her spot. Representative Frederica Wilson, Democrat of Florida, had to ditch her trademark cowboy hat outside the chamber to conform to the House's dress code. That meant taking up position hours early in a bright blue dress without the topper clearly tailored to complete the ensemble.
She'll have to have her moment with the president and the camera without it.
- Jonathan Weisman 
 6:37 P.M. | Readers' Voices: Your State of the Union 
As the nation waits to hear President Obama deliver his first State of the Union address since winning re-election, The Times asked readers to give your take on the current state of the United States. 
In advance of Obama's speech, how would you describe the current state of our union? Tweet us with #TellNYT
- The New York Times (@nytimes)12 Feb 13
Unlike Mr. Obama, readers were limited to 140 characters. And yet, in just a few words, you shared your views on everything from gun control to economic difficulties to political infighting. Here are some of your responses.
We've put deficit reduction over infrastructure improvement and job creation. We know how to improve our union but refuse to do so. #TellNYT
- Jim Fowler (@Jim_Fowler1)12 Feb 13
The State of the Union is fine. It's the state of Congress that's petty and troublesome. Their job is to actually do something... #TellNYT
- kimruehl (@kimruehl)12 Feb 13
#TellNYT plenty of gun owners want better gun control! I'm one of them. @NRA used to speak for us but now they only support the extreme.
- Squib Girl (@SquibGirl)12 Feb 13
@DLeonhardt building up a head of steam #TellNYT
- Phillip M. Perry (@PerryWriter)12 Feb 13
#TellNYT Congress needs to get on track and do right thing for middle class economy. Too many Americans live w/uncertainty and stress.
- Chery (@CherySez)12 Feb 13
The state of our union is broken, disunited, and declining. #TellNYT
- Levi Fox (@levithefox)12 Feb 13
Our union is at a fork in the road. We can't say what road is better, but we have to trust POTUS to take us on the right 1. #TellNYT
- Jose Medina (@josemedinajr)12 Feb 13
Share your take on the current state of our union with the hashtag #TellNYT.
- Hanna Ingber 
 6:19 P.M. | Obama to Push Split Congress to Act on Guns and Economy 
President Obama will challenge a divided Congress on Tuesday night to embrace a second-term agenda that includes new government investments, limits on guns, a revamped immigration system and a plan to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan, White House officials said. 
Mr. Obama's first State of the Union address since winning re-election will focus on new initiatives to kick-start the economy for middle-class Americans, aides said. The president will propose government action in education, manufacturing, infrastructure and clean energy.
"It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few," Mr. Obama will say, according to brief excerpts that the White House released Tuesday evening. "That it encourages free enterprise, rewards individual initiative and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation of ours."
But administration officials said the president also would announce that 34,000 troops will return home from Afghanistan by February 2014, cutting in half the American presence there before continuing further troop withdrawals and handing over complete responsibility for security to the Afghans by the end of next year. Read more
- Michael D. Shear 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MARCO RUBIO (89%); RAND PAUL (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



442 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: For Science's Sake, It's 'Mohawk Guy'

BYLINE: KENNETH CHANG


HIGHLIGHT: To highlight science education and memorable haircuts, one of the guests in Michelle Obama's box during the State of the Union speech will be NASA's Bobak Ferdowsi. 

 BODY:
To highlight science education and memorable haircuts, one of the guests in Michelle Obama's box during the State of the Union speech Tuesday night will be the "Mohawk Guy" - Bobak Ferdowsi, a member of the team operating NASA's Mars Curiosity rover who is best known for his spiky, red- and blue-streaked haircut and the stars shaved on the side of his head. 
Last Thursday, Mr. Ferdowsi was driving when he got a phone call from John P. Holdren, the president's science adviser. "He said the first lady would like to invite you to the State of the Union address," Mr. Ferdowsi said. "It's kind of a surprise."
In Tuesday night's speech, Mr. Obama is likely to touch on familiar themes touting the importance of science education and innovation for the United States economy. In its descriptions of the invited guests, the White House noted that Mr. Ferdowsi volunteers as a mentor at robotics competitions.
Still, it is the hair that gained the 33-year-old Mr. Ferdowsi his renown, not to mention marriage proposals and more than 50,000 followers on Twitter.
He has a history of getting special haircuts to commemorate milestones on the Mars project. "The team knew I was going to do something special for landing night," he said. "And rather than let me decide on my own, my boss sent out an e-mail poll to the team, letting them vote on my hair."
The decision: "They wanted a red, white and blue kind of theme."
When Mr. Obama phoned the NASA team in August to congratulate its members on the successful landing of the rover, he singled out Mr. Ferdowsi, joking, "I, in the past, thought about getting a Mohawk myself, but my team keeps on discouraging me."
Mr. Ferdowsi has had the Mohawk since then, although he has modified the accouterments a couple of times. For the rover's first drive, he replaced the stars with dots and dashes that spelled out J.P.L., for Jet Propulsion Laboratory, in Morse code. (The wheels of the rover have the same pattern, endlessly spelling out those letters as it rolls along Mars.)
Now he has a new pattern. "For tonight, I have U.S.A. on one side and Mars on the other," he said.
An earlier version of this post misstated the surname of the Mars Curiosity rover team member in the post's text as well as in a photo caption. He is Bobak Ferdowsi, not Ferdowski.

        
A 102-Year-Old Face of Voting Delays at the State of the Union
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 17
        
The Weekend Word: Unravel
        
On the Issues: A Guide to Obama's Proposals
        
In Policy-Heavy Speech, Obama Appeals to Emotion on Guns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CAUCUSES (72%); ROBOTICS (72%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (72%) Curiosity (Mars Rover); Ferdowsi, Bobak; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Obama, Michelle; State of the Union Message (US); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Ferdowsi, Bobak; Obama, Michelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (95%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



443 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: A Move to Protect Red-Rock Country in Utah

BYLINE: LESLIE MACMILLAN


HIGHLIGHT: A proposed resolution would urge the federal government to protect a vast roadless tract in Utah from development. 

 BODY:
In a move that has heartened some environmental advocates, a state senator has proposed a resolution calling on the federal government to protect 1.5 million acres of red-rock arches, mesas and spires adjacent to Canyonlands National Park in southeastern Utah. 
The Canyonlands acreage, the largest roadless tract in the lower 48 states, is currently managed by the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. Conservationists and the hikers, bikers and backpackers who flock to the southern Utah's five national parks say that recreation is the "highest and best use" for this fragile area. Meanwhile, industries see the potential for a potash mine and tar sands development. 
After a Utah state Senate committee hearing last week that was packed with conservationists and outdoors enthusiasts, the proposed resolution was referred to an interim committee for study. In conservative Utah, where many believe there is already too much protected land that doesn't generate taxes for the state, the bill could have easily died, according to its author, Jim Dabakis, a Democratic state senator from Salt Lake City.
Mr. Dabakis, who won a special election in December, said he planned to propose to the federal government and Congress that 1.5 million acres around Canyonlands be protected from development while an unspecified amount of federal land in eastern Utah was turned over to energy development. "That way, we protect the land but still do right by the people of Utah," he said.

"The recreation people aren't going to be happy, the drill-baby-drill crowd isn't going to be happy," he said. "But it will be a giant victory with some individual losses." 
Some Utah officials worry that President Obama may have his eye on the area and could seek federal protection for it at the end of his term as a way to shore up his environmental legacy, taking the matter out of their hands altogether. Environmentalists see a precedent for such presidential actions in the designation of Grand Staircase-Escalante as a national monument by President Clinton in 1996 under the Antiquities Act. That law does not require any further public review or federal study.
The otherworldly rock formations around Canyonlands, sculptured over the millennia by sediment deposits and wind erosion, have provided the backdrop for movies including "Thelma and Louise." Shafer Point, where the two fugitives ended their road trip by driving their blue Thunderbird convertible off a cliff, would be included in the proposed protected area.
The move comes at a time of great uncertainty for stewardship of public lands. As the new fiscal cliff of March 1 looms, national parks may be forced to slash $5 million from their budgets, and the five in Utah, including the giant Canyonlands and nearby Arches, would be hard hit. Meanwhile, although the economic benefits of outdoor recreation are considerable, local officials complain that only about 8 percent of the county's land is private and tax-generating.
Mr. Dabakis is sympathetic. "The severance tax on an oil well is real cash that marches right into the tax coffers," he noted, whereas the benefits from the flow of environmentally minded people into Moab -- at the southern tip of Arches National Park -- was less direct.
Still, "here is an opportunity to protect over a million acres of roadless land," he said. "Do we want potash there, or do we want beauty forever and ever?"
 An earlier version of this post misidentified the model of car that the characters "Thelma and Louise" drove in the 1991 movie of that title. It was a Ford Thunderbird convertible, not a Mustang. 

        
A Plea for Public Lands
        
In the Rockies, Growing Support for Renewables
        
A Voice From (and for) the Wilderness
        
Interior Names Solar 'Hot Spots' Out West
        
Will Oil Extraction Harm Western Parks?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HIKING (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); POLITICS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); EROSION (71%); OIL SANDS (69%); POTASH SODA & BORATE MINING (69%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (68%) Canyonlands; conservation; mining; Utah; Obama, Barack; Drilling and Boring; Federal Lands; Forests and Forestry; Land Use Policies; National Parks, Monuments and Seashores; State Legislatures; Bureau of Land Management; Canyonlands National Park (Utah); Parks; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (91%) Bureau of Land Management

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (70%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Canyonlands National Park (Utah); Utah

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



444 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Assessing the Address: State of the Union Lesson Ideas

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson we offer students several ways to be actively engaged in President Obama's State of the Union address - before, during and after the speech. 

 BODY:
 Updated: Feb. 13, 2013 
"President Obama, seeking to put the prosperity and promise of the middle class at the heart of his second-term agenda, called on Congress on Tuesday night to raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour, saying that would lift millions out of poverty and energize the economy," begins the front-page article on the president's Feb. 12 State of the Union address. 
Find the full speech, with video and analysis, here. Below, lesson ideas for teaching and learning with this address or State of the Union addresses of the past. 
 Things You Can Do to Learn About the Address at Any Time 
 1. Share Your Opinion. Use our Student Opinion question to share your comments about the State of the Union address. Before the president begins his speech, predict what you think he will say. Then during and after the speech, share your reactions to the president's address along with Senator Marco Rubio's Republican response. 
What did you think? How would you rate their speeches? What wasn't addressed that you would have liked to hear? Did you have any favorite lines from the president's speech or Mr. Rubio's rebuttal?
 2. Predict, Take Notes and React. Use our "State of the Union: Before, During and After" (PDF) chart to predict, take notes and react to the president's speech. 
 3. Learn About the History of the State of the Union Address. Why do presidents deliver an annual State of the Union address? How has the tradition changed since George Washington delivered the first address in 1790? Students can research these questions, and dig into history to choose any president from any year and read what he had to say about the state of the union.
Or read this Times article, with examples from George Washington to George Bush, that looks at how presidents face critical moments during their time in office when they deliver their annual State of the Union address. When was the last time the state of the union was not declared "strong"? Is the state of the union today strong? Is Mr. Obama's 2013 State of the Union address coming at a critical moment in his presidency? Why?
 4. Rethink the Address. Room for Debate asks speechwriters and commentators to think about alternative ways a president can meet Constitutional obligations while improving the tradition. Read the various responses, and then write your own opinion piece.
Then, visit the White House's official State of the Union Web page to watch an "online-only enhanced version of the address with graphics, data, and useful stats that will help you go deeper." The White House invites viewers to participate in a Twitter conversation by using the hashtag #SOTU and to ask a live panel questions after the speech. 
Do you think that the White House's new interactive approach to the State of the Union is an improvement? Or do you think we should completely rethink the State of the Union, and even consider abolishing the public address? What other ideas would you suggest?
 The State of the Union: 1913 vs. 2013 infographic by amccartney. 
 Things To Do Before the Address: 
 5. Imagine You Were President. To get a sense of what the president will see when he delivers his speech on Tuesday evening, view this panorama of the House chamber from the State of the Union address in 2010. Then imagine that millions more are watching on their TVs and computer screens. The State of the Union is a time for reflection, as well as for asserting the nation's priorities for the future. 
What would you say? How do you think the country is doing right now? Do you think we're on an upswing, a downswing or holding steady?
If you were president, what would you say should be the nation's priorities? How would you convince the country of the best way to address these issues?
As an activity, write your own State of the Union address answering the questions above. You might consider comparing the state of the union in 2013 to a century ago, to provide some contrast. You can use the infographic above for inspiration, though feel free to discuss whatever issues you think are important. 
 6. Predict What the President Will Say. What do you think Mr. Obama will say in his address? How will he assess the state of the union? What priorities will he assert? If you want some ideas, view the Pew Research Center's 2013 State of the Union "Cheat Sheet" or read this Times article describing what the speech is likely to address.
You might then create a class State of the Union bingo sheet (perhaps like this Page 1 Bingo Sheet we made for reading The Times), and play along at home as you watch.
How much do you think you will agree with what the president has to say? Why?
 Things to Do During the Address 
 7. Be Part of a Community. Besides commenting on our own Student Opinion question, you can also add your own thoughts on Twitter, or read what others are saying during the speech, by using the hashtag #SOTU. 
As you watch, you might especially note signs of change in President Obama:
Inside the White House and out, advisers and associates have noted subtle but palpable changes in Mr. Obama since his re-election. "He even carries himself a little bit differently," said one confidant who, like others, asked not to be identified discussing the president. He is relaxed, more voluble and even more confident than usual, these people say, freer to drop profanities or dismiss others' ideas - enough that even some supporters fear the potential for hubris. 
What do you notice? Is the president showing "an assertiveness, self-possession, even cockiness that contrasts with the caution, compromise and reserve that he showed for much of his first term"?
 Things to Do After the Address: 
 8. Compare this State of the Union to Previous Addresses. How does this address compare to Mr. Obama's 2012 State of the Union address? How does it compare to his 2010 State of the Union address? How have changing circumstances influenced Mr. Obama's speeches to Congress over the last four years? 
Or compare Mr. Obama's speech to those of previous presidents, like Abraham Lincoln or Theodore Roosevelt. How have the issues changed? How have they remained similar? How has rhetoric shifted over the years?
 9. Analyze the President's Language. Examine the president's word choices. Which words came up repeatedly in this State of the Union address? How did they influence the tone and overall message of the address? Here is a graphic that shows these themes.
Choose five words that you heard the president emphasize in his speech, and then compare how frequently those words appeared in previous State of the Union addresses using this SotuGraph tool or SOTU interactive graph. You can also use the Times infographic "Patterns of Speech: 75 Years of the State of the Union Addresses" to see how select words have been used in past State of the Union addresses.
Write your own text analysis of Mr. Obama's address by highlighting the keywords he used consistently and discuss their significance. 
 10. Debate the President and the Republican Response. The president will make many statements about how the United States is doing, and how the country should move forward. Afterward, Mr. Rubio will offer his response to the president's speech on behalf of the Republican Party.
Listen to both speeches and take note of their major arguments. Then, choose three assertions that you disagree with from either politician and write a rebuttal. Be sure to explain what they claimed and why you disagree with their argument.
 11. Follow the Issues and Evaluate the President's Performance. After listening to the State of the Union and the Republican Party's response, create a bulletin board or wiki on the five issues that are most important to the class. 
Monitor the president's policies on these issues as the year progresses, and add relevant newspaper clips and commentary to the board or wiki. The class can even keep score to see if the president and Congress are making progress on these issues. 
If students are interested, they can do further research on any issue, like gun violence orrelations with China.
 Update: Feb. 13. 12. Make Your Own SOTU 60-Second Video. Use the interactive "My State of the Union Address in 60 Seconds" to choose the part of President Obama's speech that mattered to you most and make your own video. You might then post your thoughts about why this section mattered to our related Student Opinion question.
 Other State of the Union Lesson Plans 
Below, some past Learning Network lessons:

        
2010 | On the Issues: Predicting and Responding to the State of the Union address
        
2007 | A More Perfect Union?
        
2004 | State of the "States"
        
2003 | Stately Statements
In addition, State of the Union lesson plans by PBS News Hour, The Choices Program and Flocabulary.

        
What Are Your Predictions for and Reactions to the State of the Union Address?
        
Should the Dropout Age Be Raised?
        
What's Your Response to Obama's Third State of the Union Address?
        
Would You Want to Grow Up in the Public Eye?
        
Inauguration Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HISTORY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%) political speeches; President Obama; speeches; State of the Union; American Government; American History; Civics; Lesson Plans; Politics and Policy; Social Studies; The House and Senate; The White House; U.S. Constitution; U.S. Presidency

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MARCO RUBIO (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



445 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Governor Puts Off Decision On Drilling

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is becoming Hamlet on the Shale.
On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo's administration again delayed making a decision on whether to allow hydraulic fracturing, a controversial drilling method used to extract natural gas from rock formations like the Marcellus Shale, which extends from the Appalachian Mountains to New York. 
Hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, has been under review by state regulators since before Mr. Cuomo took office in January 2011. But the governor has had difficulty deciding, vacillating between allowing gas drilling in the Southern Tier of New York -- near the Pennsylvania border -- and continuing to ban it. In a letter on Tuesday, the state's health commissioner, Dr. Nirav R. Shah, said that a review by his agency of the potential effects on health from the drilling was continuing, and he recommended that the administration not move forward until it was completed.
Without the report, the state will not meet a deadline this month to issue a new environmental impact statement, and that will likely require it to start the regulatory process over and begin a new 45-day comment period.
Joseph Martens, the commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation, said New York could still choose to issue gas-drilling permits fairly quickly if the Health Department study allayed concerns about risks to the water supply or other environmental hazards.
''Science, not emotion, will determine the outcome,'' Mr. Martens said.
But officials who have discussed the matter with the governor have said that his hesitation is principally political, not scientific. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, faces strident opposition on his party's left, and activists are continually protesting in Albany against fracking.
On the other hand, the governor has said that economic development is a priority, even as the state's unemployment rate has fallen behind the national average during his time in office.
Polls have been divided sharply on the drilling issue, and the governor's lingering indecision has led to comparisons to his father, Mario M. Cuomo, who at times was referred to as Hamlet on the Hudson.
On Tuesday, figures like Donald Trump and Yoko Ono weighed in on the latest development. Mr. Trump posted on Twitter: ''NY should frack now. What's the hold up? Is Albany opposed to creating jobs and making gas cheaper for middle class?''
Ms. Ono said in a statement, however, ''Thank you, Governor Cuomo, for taking time to do a more complete health study.''
The Health Department study cited as the latest reason for the delay was thought to have been largely completed some time ago.
On Jan. 30, Dr. Shah said at a public hearing, ''In a few weeks, we will be ready to share all of the work products of the experts and the department, and there will be a public airing.''
In his letter on Tuesday, which was addressed to Mr. Martens, Dr. Shah said that his agency needed more time to read newly published reports -- including one by the federal Environmental Protection Agency -- and that his agency's report would be ready in ''a few weeks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); JOB CREATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); MOUNTAINS (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); DONALD TRUMP (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



446 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: With Big Quarterly Loss, Barclays Announces Reorganization and Layoffs

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
8:13 a.m. | Updated
LONDON - Barclays announced a major reorganization that will eliminate 3,700 jobs and close several business units, as the bank reported a big loss in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The overhaul of its operations comes after a series of scandals at the bank, including one concerning the manipulation of benchmark interest rates, which led to the resignation of the firm's former chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr.
In a bid to reduce its exposure to risky trading activity, Barclays plans to close a number of operations in Europe and Asia, including a tax-planning unit that has been criticized for tarnishing the firm's reputation. 
"There will be no going back to the old way of doing things," the chief executive, Antony P. Jenkins, told reporters at a news conference in London on Tuesday. "We will never be in a position again of rewarding people for activities inconsistent with our values."
Despite the revamping of its operations and a new emphasis on values, the bank plans to retain the majority of its investment banking unit, particularly its operations in Britain and the United States. The division generated roughly 60 percent of the bank's adjusted pretax profit in 2012.
Barclays will close four business divisions, while an additional 17 units will be closed, sold or pared back in response to subdued market activity, Mr. Jenkins said. In total, the expected layoffs across the bank's operations represent around 3 percent of the firm's global work force.
The investment banking division, where about 1,800 employees are expected to be laid off, is to be among the hardest hit. The job cuts will primarily fall on the bank's Asian and European equities divisions, as well as its agricultural commodities trading operations. Almost 90 percent of the reductions already have been made, according to Christopher G. Lucas, the bank's departing chief financial officer.
Mr. Jenkins declined to comment specifically on the position of Rich Ricci, the head of Barclays investment banking, whose name has surfaced in the inquiry into the bank's role in the rate-rigging scandal.
"No one can predict the future, but I am confident in the team around me," Mr. Jenkins said. "Who knows what could happen in a year's time?"
The reorganization plan includes an additional 1,900 job cuts in the bank's European retail and business banking unit, where Barclays plans to close roughly 30 percent of its Continental branch network.
The reductions have been focused in areas where Barclays does not compete globally with other international banks or where the firm could experience damage to its reputation, as with the recent rate-rigging scandal and the inappropriate sales of loan insurance to customers.
"Not much of this is surprising," said Ian Gordon, a banking analyst at Investec in London. "They are not removing any of the material activities from the investment bank."
The recent scandals weighed down the bank's fourth-quarter earnings.
Barclays posted a net loss of £835 million ($1.3 billion) in the last three months of 2012, compared with a profit of £356 million in the period a year earlier.
The latest results were hampered by the need to set aside capital to compensate customers who had been inappropriately sold loan insurance and for small businesses that were improperly sold complex interest-rate hedging products. Barclays also took a charge against the value of its own debt.
Excluding one-time charges and adjustments, the bank's pretax profit for the fourth quarter would have been £1.1 billion, about double the amount in the period a year earlier.For 2012, the bank reported an annual net loss of £1 billion, compared with a £3 billion profit for 2011. The annual loss resulted from provisions to cover legal costs related to the rate-rigging scandal and other improper activities.
The bank added that it would reduce annual costs by around 10 percent, to £16.8 billion, by 2015. Its share price rose almost 6 percent in afternoon trading in London on Tuesday.
Barclays said it had reduced bonuses across its operations by 16 percent for 2012, compared with the previous year. In its investment banking division, total bonuses fell 20 percent, with the average bonus in the unit standing at £54,100, a 17 percent reduction, according to a company statement.
The bank added that it had cut compensation awards because of risks facing several business units, including the rate-rigging scandal.
In a settlement with American and British authorities in June, Barclays agreed to pay fines totaling $450 million to resolve accusations that some of its traders had manipulated the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for financial gain. Some of the firm's managers also altered the rate to portray the bank as being in a healthier financial position than it actually was.
The investment banking division reported a pretax profit of £858 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a pretax profit of £267 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Pretax profit at the bank's retail and business banking unit rose 17 percent, to £732 million, while pretax profit in its corporate banking division almost tripled, to £107 million.
Mr. Jenkins acknowledged that some of the firm's past actions had fallen short. He added that the investment banking division would remain at the heart of the firm's future operations, though wrongdoing would not be tolerated.
"The old ways weren't the right way to behave, nor did they deliver the right results," Mr. Jenkins said. "Individuals must take responsibility for their own behavior."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Antony P. Jenkins, the chief executive at Barclays, said Tuesday in London that some of the bank's past actions had fallen short. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN WERMUTH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); INVESTEC LTD (50%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); INL (JSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); ASIA (77%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



447 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Obama Order Gives Firms Cyberthreat Information

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and NICOLE PERLROTH; Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama signed an executive order on Tuesday that promotes increased information sharing about cyberthreats between the government and private companies that oversee the country's critical infrastructure, offering a weakened alternative to legislation the administration had hoped Congress would pass last year.
The order will allow companies that oversee infrastructure like dams, electrical grids and financial institutions to join an experimental program that has provided government contractors with real-time reports about cyberthreats. 
It will also put together recommendations that companies should follow to prevent attacks, and it will more clearly define the responsibilities for different parts of the government that play a role in cybersecurity.
''Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, and our air traffic control systems,'' Mr. Obama said in his State of the Union address. ''We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy.''
But the measures considered most important by cybersecurity experts -- like minimum requirements for how crucial infrastructure should be protected -- were not included in the order because they require Congressional approval. They say the equipment used by companies overseeing the nation's critical infrastructure is notoriously outdated and insecure because it was not built with the potential for a serious cyberattack in mind.
''The executive order is about information sharing -- it does not even begin to address the real problem, which is that these systems are completely insecure,'' said Dale Peterson, the founder of Digital Bond, a security firm that focuses on infrastructure.
He added: ''I'm amazed that 11 ½ years after 9/11, the government hasn't even had the courage to say, 'You need to replace this insecure equipment.' If you get on these systems, they have no security and you can do whatever you want.''
One of the administration's top national security priorities last year was to get Congress to pass legislation giving the Department of Homeland Security power to enforce minimum standards for the security standards of equipment running critical infrastructure.
As part of the administration's efforts to persuade members of Congress about the severity of the problem, several senior administration officials -- including Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security; Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- provided closed-door briefings to members of Congress on the threat.
But Senate Republicans, led by John McCain of Arizona, argued that the minimum standards were too burdensome for businesses, and by late July had managed to change the legislation to make them optional. In early August, the bill essentially died when it was blocked by a Republican filibuster. Senior administration officials have said they will attempt to get Congress to pass similar cybersecurity legislation this year.
Hackers are increasingly exploiting the lack of security to gain access to the nation's most critical infrastructure.
According to a December report by the Department of Homeland Security, the agency has been responding to intrusions into oil pipelines and electric power organizations ''at an alarming rate.'' Some 198 attacks on the nation's critical infrastructure systems were reported to the agency last year, a 52 percent increase from the number of reported attacks in 2012.
Several were successful. According to an earlier Department of Homeland Security report, hackers breached the computer systems of several natural gas pipelines last year and stole data that ''could facilitate remote unauthorized operations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An agent at work last month at the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center in Arlington, Va. The center is an arm of the Homeland Security Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (91%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); APPROVALS (67%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



448 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Everything but the Cook

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
Nick Taranto thinks you should cook your own dinner tonight. He even thinks you might pay him for the privilege.
At 28, Mr. Taranto already has a double-Ivy education (Dartmouth, Harvard) and served in the Marines; he was a microfinancier in Indonesia and a private wealth adviser on Wall Street.
Now his professional focus is on perfecting recipes for maple-glazed salmon and Mexican lasagna -- and on how his new e-commerce business, Plated, will buy, measure, cut, chill, box and ship every ingredient to your door. All the home cook has to do, in theory, is click on ''order,'' open a box and follow a recipe.
This ready-to-cook meal is called the dinner kit. And Plated -- along with a host of similar new services, including Blue Apron, Chefday! and HelloFresh -- is the latest in a stream of technological innovations and corporate interventions, from the cake mix to the cookbook app, that have long promised to relieve Americans of kitchen drudgery while retaining the flavor and cachet of home cooking. 
''When we started jobs in New York, we realized that cooking dinner is really, really hard,'' Mr. Taranto said of himself and his business partner, Josh Hix, 31. (They often cooked together in graduate school.) ''There's not enough time in modern lives to recipe-select or grocery-shop.''
Home-delivered food, of course, is not news, and neither is online shopping. Over the last decade, services like Peapod and FreshDirect have accustomed millions of consumers to buying fresh ingredients online, while frozen-dinner delivery businesses like Schwan's have sold them on fully prepared meals.
But the dinner kit aims for a sweet spot somewhere between the bunch of asparagus and the finished asparagus-stuffed salmon. And it addresses some paradoxes peculiar to today's home kitchens: while Americans, fed a steady diet of TV cooking shows and nutritional news, care increasingly about what they eat, many feel too harried to hunt down new recipes and make dinner from scratch. Yet they remain unwilling to live on takeout and heat-and-eat meals alone.
John Leeman, the director of marketing for FreshDirect, the New York-based company that has become the nation's largest all-online grocery, said his company's research shows that while prepared, or ''turnkey,'' meals are a cornerstone of its business, customers feel uneasy if they do not cook often enough.
''Heating food up night after night is not what a mom does,'' Mr. Leeman said one regular customer told him. '' 'That's no better than taking them to McDonald's.' ''
In response, last month FreshDirect introduced a line of dinner kits that demand some cooking: chicken breasts premarinated in yogurt, but not cooked, delivered along with pattypan squash and zucchini already cut and peeled, ready for the oven.
Ordering a kit isn't as thrifty as cooking from scratch; the meals cost $7 to about $17.50 a serving, more than it would cost to buy the raw ingredients at FreshDirect or Whole Foods. But a precooked version of a similar dish from Schwan's would also cost about $6 a serving; from Boston Market, about $8.50.
The companies say the kits can save money by reducing food waste, since all ingredients are used up; there is no need, say, to buy a jar of curry powder when only half a teaspoon is called for. And, they say, given the quality of the ingredients and inventiveness of the recipes, the proper price comparison to make is with a restaurant meal -- at the kind of restaurant that their target audience prefers: sophisticated, with a global, seasonal or local spin.
The dinner-kit business model -- online ordering, overnight shipping, premium ingredients and weekly recipes -- has already proved successful abroad. The first service, Middagsfrid, started in Sweden in 2007, and the concept was quickly replicated elsewhere in Europe.
So far, it has been a niche enterprise for young urbanites, but that niche is clearly growing, with copycats around the globe. HelloFresh, owned by the German e-commerce giant Rocket Internet, delivers more than 10,000 boxes a week in Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Australia, and has expanded its reach in the United States from Maine to Florida. (Dinner kits are now available mainly along the East Coast; HelloFresh distributes as far west as Wisconsin, and the company has plans to go national.)
In this country, there have been few new models for e-commerce in fresh food since online grocery shopping became popular. Perishable ingredients, unlike boots and best sellers, remain bound to brick-and-mortar markets. ''Food is one of the last pieces of daily life that is still analog,'' said Mr. Hix, of Plated. ''We want to bring it into the digital space.''
All the dinner-kit companies provide essentially the same service: easy-interface Web sites with fresh graphics and pretty pictures of food, where cooks can choose from an ever-changing roster of recipes for a quick weeknight dinner. (Some allow ordering by the individual meal, others by subscription only.) Ingredients are shipped fresh, not frozen, insulated in a trove of packing and cooling materials.
The box -- or bag, or crate -- includes a recipe, usually with photos showing each step. Inside, ingredients are already portioned and measured: if a chili recipe calls for a teaspoon of cumin, there it is, neatly labeled, in its own little cup. Two tablespoons of olive oil arrive in a tiny screw-top jar; six sprigs of cilantro, in a zipped plastic bag. The cook still has to dice the onions, mince the garlic and simmer the stew, but the start-to-finish cooking time is significantly shortened.
''It showed up in my kitchen at the point where I had already found the recipe, gone to the store, taken off my coat and put everything out on the counter, but I didn't have to do any of that,'' said Peter Eisen, a Web site designer in Brooklyn who tried Plated last December. ''It was like I had gone through a hole in the Matrix.''
To some home cooks, the dinner kit appears as a godsend, saving precious time while offering exotic ingredients and new recipes, like seared cod with yuzu butter, or charred Nordic chicory with hanger steak.
Yet Rachel Katz, a mother of four in Rockland County, N.Y., said the kit did not provide the ''practical, everyday food'' that she had hoped would streamline her life.
Others say it looks like play food, providing a facsimile of home cooking that does not nurture the skills or taste that make a cook.
''I felt completely infantilized when I saw all the ingredients laid out, as if a grown-up had to do it for me,'' said Laura Shapiro, a culinary historian and the author of ''Something From the Oven: Reinventing Dinner in 1950s America.''
Dinner kits are not the only service promising to simplify and improve on the home-cooked dinner. There are meal assembly centers like Dream Dinners, where customers choose recipes and fill bags with prepared ingredients, to be cooked at home; services like Simply Fresh to You, in Charlotte, N.C., that deliver par-cooked entrees; and shelf-stable kits like Chef Set that provide everything but the protein and produce for a full meal.
Just how many Americans are ready to pay regularly for such hybrid meals -- part prefabricated, part homemade -- is unclear. Sucharita Mulpuru, a retail analyst at Forrester Research, said there were no numbers yet on this tiny sector of the $1 trillion food economy. But, she said, entrepreneurs always hope that they can slice off a piece of that bigger pie.
''I have no doubt that one of these guys will make it,'' Ms. Mulpuru said of the dinner-kit services. ''But the food business is so hard, and people are picky. I'm skeptical that this model will become more than one small player among many dinner solutions.''
Even the entrepreneurs concede that it will take a leap of faith for home cooks to move from ordering staples like ground beef and carrots with a few keyboard clicks, to letting a Web site choose, shop for, prep and season the Moroccan carrot and beef tagine that goes on the dinner table.
''We know that's a big trust gap,'' said Matt Salzberg, a founder of Blue Apron, which is based in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. ''We believe we can bridge it with high-quality ingredients and services. We plan menus for you, source ingredients that are fresher than what you can buy, and teach you to be a better cook.''
Still, as Ms. Mulpuru pointed out, a solution to the hardest part of dinnertime is not included in the box.
''You still have to clean up the kitchen,'' she said. ''When they figure out how to take away the mess, that will really be a revolution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO MEASURING: Blue Apron is one of several new services that deliver portioned ingredients and recipes -- like this one for Moroccan beef tagine -- so all the consumer has to do is mix, chop and cook. We sampled them, and report the pros and cons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
Blue Apron workers at a warehouse in Brooklyn fill containers with meal ingredients, including fresh vegetables, that will be shipped to subscribers.
 A Blue Apron kit, complete with instructions. The companies say meal kits can save money by reducing food waste, since all the ingredients are used up. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); PREPARED FOODS (88%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); FAST FOOD (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%)

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



449 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: New Hubs Arise to Serve 'Just in Case' Distribution

BYLINE: By MATT HUDGINS

 BODY:
Major storms like Hurricane Sandy and other unexpected events have prompted some companies to modify the popular just-in-time style of doing business, in which only small amounts of inventory are kept on hand, to fashion what is known as just-in-case management.
The shift has led retailers and logistics companies to alter supply chains by adding distribution hubs, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate research firm in Washington. In turn, the hubs are creating real estate opportunities in markets on and off established distribution paths, including growth in markets outside the traditional seaport hubs on the East and West Coasts.
Just-in-case planning helps retailers keep merchandise on store shelves in the event a supply chain disruption affects one of the major distribution markets. Hurricane Sandy affected the ports of New York and New Jersey, for example, and the 2002 lockout of International Longshore and Warehouse Union workers from West Coast seaports delayed the unloading of container ships for months. 
Just-in-case is a response to the vulnerability of just-in-time supply chains, said Rene Circ, CoStar's director of industrial research. Since the 1990s, just-in-time has made sense for many companies looking to reduce the cost of keeping large inventories on hand. Technology enabled retailers and manufacturers to closely track and ship items to replace merchandise sold or components consumed in production.
This model also reduced transportation costs, because goods would be shipped only as necessary. By combining the just-in-case with just-in-time strategy, Mr. Circ said, companies are trying to strike a balance between ''carrying the minimum inventory possible, yet never running out of things, because inventory equals cost.''
For example, Ranger Steel, a company based in Houston that describes itself as the largest privately owned steel plate distributor in the nation, recently expanded its network of distribution centers. Until the late 1990s, Ranger Steel regularly trucked its heavy steel plates directly from a distribution center at the Port of Houston to customers throughout the United States.
''For a long time that concept worked like a charm,'' said Jochen Seeba, the company's vice president and chief operating officer. ''Then you started to see the spike in fuel pricing, and new governmental rules and regulations on insurance coverage for truck drivers that made truck transportation very expensive.''
Like many retailers and wholesale suppliers, Ranger Steel in recent years has added distribution centers to its network, cutting delivery times by moving its inventory closer to customers.
Today, suppliers ship steel in bulk to Ranger Steel's seven distribution centers around the country. From there, drivers can deliver orders to most of the company's customers in 24 hours, leveling the playing field with local competitors in markets like St. Louis, where the firm opened a distribution center last year.
Reduced transportation cost is a secondary benefit, Mr. Seeba said. The more significant advantage is the ability to serve and retain customers better in an increasingly competitive marketplace, in which a three-day delivery time to St. Louis from Houston is no longer acceptable. ''You have to adjust your model,'' Mr. Seeba said, ''and that's what we have done.''
With just-in-time management, smaller on-site inventories put companies at greater risk of running out of merchandise in the event of a disruption. Shaw Lupton, CoStar's senior real estate economist, said companies were trying to mitigate that risk by diversifying supply chains into multiple distribution centers. As evidence, he pointed to a long-term shift of cargo flows from West Coast to East Coast seaports, and a slowdown of the rate at which the largest warehouse markets have captured market share over the past decade.
Some researchers say that retailers, in particular, are under competitive pressure to establish distribution centers near major population centers. Many states have begun to require online retailers to pay sales tax, making it difficult to compete with brick-and-mortar stores on price.
In an effort to gain an advantage, online retailers are increasingly offering rapid shipping from nearby distribution centers, Mr. Circ said. ''It's driving this reconfiguration of supply chains and the building of these large warehouses, not just in a few key markets as it used to be, but a lot more widely spread'' across the country, he said.
The closer to the customer that a company can transport its goods in bulk, the greater the efficiency and cost savings, said Tim Feemster, senior managing director at the Dallas branch of Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, a real estate company. Multiple, well-placed distribution centers minimize the time and distance spent on the final leg of delivery, when trucks are often nearly empty while transporting individual items. ''The final mile is the most expensive cost per pound or cost per piece,'' he said.
Retailers sometimes avoid that final-mile delivery by inviting online shoppers to pick up their purchases from nearby stores, Mr. Feemster said. In those cases, the store functions as a distribution center.
The tendency toward numerous distribution facilities runs contrary to a strategy that was common just after the recession, when some companies sought efficiency by consolidating warehouse operations, according to Bob Martie, executive vice president for the New Jersey region at Colliers International, a real estate service provider.
''As competition is growing, companies are seeing the need to have better customer service,'' Mr. Martie said. ''Five years ago, one might need two distribution centers to effectively manage the country; now that number seems to be five to seven.''
Or more, for the largest online retailers. On Jan. 30, for example, Amazon.com announced plans to open three fulfillment centers in Texas, each measuring more than one million square feet. In 2012, the company introduced the development of fulfillment centers in Dupont, Wash., and in Middletown, Del., and made a half-dozen similar announcements the previous year.
The redesign of supply chains has introduced some new distribution paths. The Hillwood Development Company, based in Fort Worth, will develop two of Amazon's fulfillment centers in Texas, including one at AllianceTexas, Hillwood's 17,000-acre master-planned community north of Fort Worth that is a nexus of rail service, airfreight and highway access. The second will be near Dallas, in Coppell; USAA Real Estate Company is developing the third center just northeast of San Antonio.
Plenty of companies need to establish and maintain distribution centers in smaller markets, too, according to Benjamin Butcher, chief executive of STAG Industrial in Boston. STAG owns and manages more than 29 million square feet of single-tenant industrial properties in 31 states.
Mr. Butcher said that companies were generally reluctant to make major adjustments to an established supply chain. ''In the tenants we're dealing with, there is a lot of stability,'' he said. ''They don't tend to move unless there is a fairly strong and valid business reason to do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A crane operator, left, moving containers between rail cars and truck trailers at a terminal in Haslet, Tex., near the location where Amazon is developing a distribution center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); LOCKOUTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); TRUCKING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) WEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



450 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Reins Easing on New York Construction Loans

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Construction in New York slowed to a trickle in the recession, but there are finally signs that the construction loan market is coming back to life.
While lending for multifamily rental buildings, with its steady income flow, has been popular for the last 12 to 18 months, a growing number of lenders are now looking at condominium projects, hotel developments and certain office and retail buildings.
''There is plenty of debt capital available and as we bid on transactions there is a lot more competition than there was 12 months ago, and certainly more than 24 months ago,'' said Bill Cotter, the northeast division manager at Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate.
As the real estate market continues its slow recovery, land prices have been rising, enabling borrowers to pay back their construction loans or refinance. That has pushed down the default rate and spurred more lenders to make new loans. In the third quarter of 2012, the most recent number available, the default rate on construction loans was 9.5 percent, the lowest it has been since the end of 2008, according to Chandan Economics, a research firm. 
Construction loan commitments are trending up, the firm found. Because developers draw on construction loans as building progresses, they are not recorded until the funds are deployed, so the increase in commitments is anecdotal. ''We know they're up, but we can't say exactly how much,'' said Sam Chandan, president and chief economist of Chandan Economics.
With default rates declining and the market improving, competition among lenders to make construction loans is intensifying. In New York City, more projects are being financed, and for the strongest borrowers, the equity requirements and other terms are softening. Helping to drive the trend is the limited amount of construction in recent years, which has led lenders to believe there is sufficient demand for more building. Construction loans also offer more yield than other loan types and so are appealing in a low-interest-rate environment.
Lenders generally see construction loans as riskier than other loan types, in large part because if a project falls apart, the lender is left with a partly finished building that does not generate revenue. To make up for some of this risk, lenders typically charge borrowers higher rates.
''Interest rates are generally so low that lenders are focused on how they can improve yields, and construction lending usually has higher yields, so it is a way to improve their return on funds deployed,'' said Andrew A. Lance, a partner at the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
With more lenders looking to make construction loans, the types of properties they are willing to finance have expanded. Hotel development, for example, is typically considered a riskier property type but is nonetheless being financed at a fast clip.
Abraham Hidary, the president of Hidrock Realty, for example, is negotiating with lenders for loans to build a 317-room hotel at 133 Greenwich Street and a 200-room hotel near Rockefeller Center. The banks are offering to finance 60 to 65 percent of the cost of the projects, and are requiring that he personally guarantee 15 to 20 percent of the loan, he said, with interest rates that range from 3.25 to 3.75 percent.
In late 2010 and 2011, Mr. Hidary was negotiating the loans for two other hotels that he is developing -- a 173-room Springhill Suites and a 168-room Courtyard by Marriott, both in Midtown South. At that time, banks were willing to lend only 55 percent of the cost of the projects and were requiring that he personally guarantee as much as 30 percent of the loans. The interest rates then ranged from 3.75 to 4.5 percent, he said.
''It has definitely helped us that there is more competition among lenders,'' Mr. Hidary said.
In recent months, banks have also begun looking at financing condominium developments. That is partly because many of the projects that are looking for financing are new, rather than precrash developments that have been dusted off and repurposed. ''Pre-2008 we were doing a lot of condos, and land prices were elevated and the cost of construction to build them was high,'' said Abraham Bergman, a managing partner and co-founder at Eastern Union Funding, a mortgage broker. ''But when you look at a new project today, the land has been recently purchased and it is being viewed in today's dollars so it makes a lot more sense.''
Experienced developers with large balance sheets who can offer to personally guarantee at least part of the loan can borrow as much as 70 to 75 percent of the cost of a condominium project, said Alan P. Miller, an executive managing director and a principal at broker Eastern Consolidated. The rate on these loans, he said, is roughly 5 percent. In comparison, during the market peak, some developers were able to finance as much as 90 percent of the project at rates as low as 3 percent.
Lenders are also looking at financing more retail and office development, ''although one of the themes of 2013 is strong preleasing,'' said Mr. Cotter. ''There won't be much spec construction; you won't see any empty office buildings.''
While banks are more open to lending for different projects and are easing some terms, their underwriting standards remain conservative. The most important aspect for most lenders is ''borrower first, real estate second,'' said Mark Fisher, a senior vice president in the capital markets group at CBRE. ''Who is the borrower, what is his liquidity, can he get us out of trouble? In every case, those are the No. 1 issues.''
Most construction loans now also require a completion guarantee, where the borrower promises construction will be completed within a specific time frame. They also include a maximum price contract, where the borrower obtains an agreement from the contractor that the price of construction will not exceed a certain number.
Since the downturn, lenders are also pushing more borrowers to agree to carry-cost guarantees, where the borrower assumes expenses like taxes and insurance until construction is completed and the property is generating sufficient rent to cover the costs, Mr. Lance said.
To further disperse risk, banks are also participating in so-called club deals where several banks lend on a single construction loan. Gary Rosenberg, a partner at Rosenberg & Estis, said he was working now on two construction loans. Over the last few years, he said, banks were unwilling to lend more than $50 million to $75 million. But ''now, for the right borrower, we are finding that they are easily offering between $100 million and $200 million,'' he said.
Because banks remain conservative in their underwriting, alternative lenders like opportunity funds are stepping in to fill the void. ''There is a need for those borrowers who don't want to put in so much equity,'' said Peter D'Arcy, regional president for New York City at M&T Bank, which will typically lend 55 to 65 percent of the cost of a project, he said. ''These funds will take on more risk in return for a higher yield and do what an aggressive bank would have done back in 2007.''
And it may be that as competition continues to increase, some lenders will begin shedding their conservative skin. ''We are currently lending just 50 percent or less of the cost of a project, but before the crisis we were in the 65 percent range,'' said Mr. Cotter. ''As the economy improves, that number is going to go back up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abraham Hidary, president of Hidrock Realty, said banks would now finance 60 to 65 percent of his hotel construction costs at lower interest rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); TRENDS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (83%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



451 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Hemp Growing Finds Allies of a New Stripe in Kentucky

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
FRANKFORT, Ky. -- In 1996 the actor Woody Harrelson, who has a sideline as an activist for legalizing marijuana, was arrested in Kentucky for planting four hemp seeds.
Last month Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican minority leader, announced his support for growing hemp in Kentucky, his home state.
Between those jarringly disparate events lies the evolution of hemp from a countercultural cause to an issue championed by farmers in the heartland and conservative lawmakers. 
On Monday, a panel of the Republican-controlled Kentucky State Senate unanimously approved a bill to license hemp growers. It was promoted by the state agriculture commissioner and three members of the state's Congressional delegation, including Senator Rand Paul, who removed his jacket to testify in a white shirt that he announced was made of hemp fibers.
If the bill is approved by the full Legislature, Kentucky will join eight other states that have adopted laws to allow commercial hemp growing, although the practice is effectively blocked by federal law that makes no distinction between hemp and marijuana.
Mr. Paul, a Republican, said he would seek a waiver from the Obama administration for Kentucky hemp growers, while pressing Congress to delist hemp as a controlled substance, which hemp supporters say is a legacy of antidrug hysteria.
Both plants are the same species, Cannabis sativa, but hemp has only a trace of the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana. Hemp's champions see it as a source of agricultural jobs, an alternative for struggling tobacco farmers and a wonder plant with uses from bluejeans to building materials.
Attitudes are changing in surprising places. At a hearing on Monday in Frankfort, the Kentucky capital, the state police commissioner's opposition to hemp growing was challenged by a former C.I.A. director, R. James Woolsey.
''The specter of people getting high on industrial hemp,'' Mr. Woolsey said, ''is pretty much exactly like saying you can get drunk on O'Doul's.''
Hemp supporters say it is only a matter of time before legalization comes as people more fully understand the plant. They also point to states where voters legalized recreational marijuana in November -- Colorado and Washington -- as inevitably forcing a change in priorities in the Obama administration.
''The demonology of hemp is exposed as being not valid,'' said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky, a sponsor of a bill in the House to allow hemp cultivation. He said the movement to accept hemp has the same inevitability that he attributed to acceptance of same-sex marriage.
Still, the federal government has been unyielding. Farmers in states that allow hemp must seek a waiver from the Drug Enforcement Administration or risk being raided by federal agents and losing their farms.
Dave Monson, a North Dakota wheat farmer and Republican state representative, has held a state hemp license since 2007, when North Dakota legalized cultivation. But he has no plans to plant. ''I applied for a D.E.A. license, never got one,'' he said.
A spokesman for the drug agency said it did not keep statistics on permits to grow hemp, which it does not distinguish from marijuana under the Controlled Substance Act of 1970.
Mr. Monson knows farmers just north of the Canadian border who profitably grow hemp, and he argues that it can be an economic boon. ''The more states that do what we have done in North Dakota, if we can keep the pressure on, I think we're going to see some movement at the federal level,'' he said.
Hemp supporters claim a total retail value of products containing hemp at more than $400 million in the United States. But a Congressional Research Service report last year found that imported hemp raw materials was small, only $11.5 million. All hemp used in United States today -- such as in Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps sold at Whole Foods -- is imported, mostly from China.
Rodney Brewer, the commissioner of the Kentucky State Police, said that if hemp farming were legal, marijuana growers would hide their plants in hemp fields and the police could not tell them apart.
''They are identical in appearance when it comes to the naked eye,'' Mr. Brewer said, predicting that legalizing hemp would create a boom for pot growers.
But Mr. Woolsey, who said he favored hemp because of ''my interest in prosperity for rural America,'' argued that no pot farmer would hide plants in a hemp field for fear that low-potency hemp would cross-pollinate with marijuana and lower the concentration of THC, its psychoactive ingredient.
Marijuana growers ''hate the idea of having industrial hemp anywhere near,'' he said.
The Kentucky bill faces resistance from some lawmakers, including the speaker of the State House.
Mr. Paul, after calling attention to his hemp shirt at the hearing in Frankfort, seemed to roll his eyes when he said, ''You'd think you're at a D.E.A. hearing.''
''This is a hearing about a crop,'' he said. ''It's a crop that's legal everywhere else in the world except the United States.''
Mr. Paul, elected in 2010 with Tea Party support, promised to introduce a Senate bill as a companion to the pro-hemp bill in the House, which has 28 co-sponsors. He is following in the family footsteps, since the first House bill allowing hemp was introduced several years ago by his father, Ron Paul, a former Texas congressman and Republican presidential candidate. Ron Paul's embrace of the issue fit his deep libertarian streak, which also at times embraced legalizing marijuana and other drugs.
Those positions placed hemp far outside the mainstream in many lawmakers' minds, just as the image of its products -- soaps, sandals and natural foods sold at co-ops -- placed it in a counterculture.
But no better sign exists that hemp's image is changing than its embrace by Mr. McConnell, the minority leader, who said in a statement last month that his mind had been changed ''after long discussions'' with Rand Paul and the Kentucky agriculture commissioner, James Comer, a Republican.
''The utilization of hemp to produce everything from clothing to paper is real,'' Mr. McConnell said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRIENDS AND FOES: Top, in the summer of 1952, hemp plants growing wild in a lot in downtown Louisville, Ky., were killed with chemical spray. Senator Rand Paul, left, and Woody Harrelson, below left in 1996, support legalizing the growing of hemp in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COURIER-JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
JAMES CRISP/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOHN SOMMERS II/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CANNABIS (92%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FIBER CROP PRODUCTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); WHEAT FARMING (73%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); NATURAL FIBERS (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: RAND PAUL (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN A YARMUTH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFORT, KY, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (98%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



452 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: G-7 Leaves Currencies To Markets

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and ANNIE LOWREY; James Kanter reported from Brussels and Annie Lowrey from Washington.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Seven top industrial nations, including the United States and Germany, pledged on Tuesday to let foreign exchange markets determine the value of their currencies.
The statement by the Group of 7 prompted relief in Japan, where policy makers have been under fire, accused of unfairly seeking to give their economy a shot in the arm by bringing down the value of the yen. The statement ''properly recognizes that steps we are taking to beat deflation are not aimed at influencing currency markets,'' said Taro Aso, the Japanese finance minister.
But a Group of 20 official said that the statement was meant to warn Japan not to manipulate its exchange rates in its efforts to lift its moribund economy, and that concerns about Japan's policies and the prospect of competitive currency devaluation would be a chief topic at a coming Group of 20 meeting in Russia. 
The statement and conflicting follow-ups from economic officials and finance ministries around the world caused confusion on Tuesday, with some market participants interpreting the situation as quelling fears of a so-called currency war and others interpreting it as stoking them. The yen climbed against the dollar and the euro as officials voiced their concerns about Japan's policies.
In the statement, the Group of 7 nations said they would consult closely to avoid moves that could hurt stability. But they restated a commitment to market-determined exchange rates.
''We reaffirm that our fiscal and monetary policies have been and will remain oriented towards meeting our respective domestic objectives using domestic instruments, and that we will not target exchange rates,'' the Group of 7 said in the statement, which was posted on the Web site of the Bank of England. Britain holds the rotating presidency this year.
Concerns had been mounting in recent weeks about the effects of an ultraloose monetary policy in Japan that has pushed the yen lower against top currencies. The yen's weakness had also prompted talk of a so-called currency war if other parts of the world followed suit in devalution.
Some international economic officials have brushed off the growing accusations of unfair or competitive currency manipulation.
''This increasing talk of currency wars is very much overblown,'' Olivier Blanchard, the chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, said in January. ''Countries have to take the right measures to get their own economies back to health.''
But loose monetary policy intended to increase growth often has the effect of devaluing a currency, thus making a given country's exports more affordable and its competitors' exports more expensive. Over the last few years, emerging market countries like Brazil have openly accused slow-growing advanced countries like the United States of unfairly pushing down the value of their currencies with their aggressive monetary policies.
For years, the United States has criticized export-reliant emerging economies, in particular China, over manipulating their currencies, too.
This week, the Obama administration said that it supported countries' efforts to increase economic growth and lower unemployment, but not by manipulating their exchange rates.
''We support the effort to reinvigorate growth and to end inflation in Japan,'' Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, said during a briefing Monday. But she emphasized that the Group of 7 had a ''longstanding set of rules'' committing its members to float their currencies except during rare instances of market turbulence.
As some officials in Japan have argued the country should push down the value of the yen, some Europeans have supported doing the same for the euro. The euro's rise in value has become a particular concern, as it could make exports more expensive and dent growth if demand for European products falls. Those concerns prompted France to call for an exchange-rate policy.
On Monday, Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister, said he wanted Europeans to present a common plan this week at the meeting of finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of 20 nations in Moscow.
But the head of the German Bundesbank, Jens Weidmann, said on Monday that the French initiative was a poor substitute for policy overhauls that, if adopted, would do more for growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); DEFLATION (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



453 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Exquisite Images Versus Taxi TV

BYLINE: By SUZY MENKES

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- With its ranks of photographers, posing and preening performers, brand promotions, blaring music and an army of crowd controllers, could any one argue that fashion has become an arm of the entertainment business?
At the lowest level comes ''Taxi TV'' -- which requires a collection bland enough to fit the small screen affixed to the back of the taxi driver's seat here in New York. Too many forgettable shows seem to be in that category.
Yet this week of Winter 2013 shows here is proving that stepping outside the box is the way to go.
There could not have been two more opposite shows than the gentle, strokeable, exquisitely detailed show of The Row, held with grace in an Upper East Side town house; and the scenario presented by Thom Browne of smart- suited males, trussed with scarlet ribbons and lying as if dead, while women in fantastical outfits wafted by stroking them with long-stemmed red roses. 
But the two shows had this in common: vision, imagination, and no desire to be on Taxi TV.
At The Row, Ashley and Mary-Kate Olsen ran their fingers through the shadow-patterned surface of a ''cross'' mink coat, pointed out the milky pearl buttons buried in alpaca and the Ottoman pattern pressed into a sweater surface and said simply, ''It's supposed to be personal.''
The design duo's offering is like an exquisite meal blending different tastes. So the hint of Victorian men's tailoring in strict black coats was balanced by pale brocades and jacquards that introduced a tinge of the Orient. The story was in the delicacy of anything from spindly pearl jewelry to the fluffy boudoir slippers flowering at the feet. An exquisite offering.
For Thom Browne, known for his obsessive men's wear image of shrunken shapes and constricting tailoring, Michele Obama's choice of his smart coat and dress for the inauguration's daytime event last month gave the designer a new reach.
So did the first lady cram into an industrial elevator at the downtown venue? Did she sit front row as models with kabuki makeup and hose decorated with flowers showed off their huge, flat boxy jackets? She did not.
It was as though, having proved his skill in making ''normal'' clothes, Mr. Browne took everything to extremes, like the huge square cuts, slightly reminiscent of Rei Kawakubo's ''two-dimension'' collection. But the stand-away, boxy clothes were still striking and beautifully realized.
''I was obsessed with shoulders and hips,'' said Mr. Brown. But that did not express the delicate details of the collection, including its frizzy Elizabethan hairstyles, embossed lace and bags and shoes with patent leather effects, as if dripping with shiny paint.
It is always good to see a designer letting his creative juices flow. And all the more credit to Mr. Browne for following his first lady scoop with such a full-on fashion treat.
Pruning the wilder branches of fashion, for reasons economic or technical, can be good. And the success of Theyskens Theory proves that Olivier Theyskens, once on the wilder side of Paris couture, can make a difference to relatively affordable clothes.
Within the constraints of nonfancy fabrics and a sensible sportswear wardrobe, the Theyskens Theory collection offered a new silhouette, standing away from the body: quilted dresses, the oversized tailoring that opened the show and the short skirts, which were A-line shapes, gleaming in pony skin or its effect.
''I was thinking about futurism and about the comfort of padding,'' said Mr. Theyskens, who pulled off in this show something that approached a bold fashion statement -- but would fit into a small screen.
There was something missing from the show Marc Jacobs sent out at Lincoln Center in the time slot usually reserved for his eponymous show further downtown. Instead of an imaginative stage set and the excitement of a new season's vision, that signature Marc Jacobs show was pushed to Thursday because of time restraints.
So the audience for Marc by Marc Jacobs on Tuesday saw a nice commercial show of separates with a 1970s tinge, pieces as trim and streamlined as the hair was wild and bushy. Some vivid flower prints underlined a fine mix of colors and everything from the A-line skirts through the cropped pants to the rounded brogue shoes looked in the Jacobs spirit. Yet no one but Miuccia Prada, with her MiuMiu collection, seems able to pull off the idea of two parallel collections each with an equally powerful personality. Verdict: Looking good for Taxi TV.
The 3.1 Phillip Lim collection was smarter at capturing the perky individuality of the way women dress today: a magpie mix of color and fabrics, as layers of Neoprene in bubble gum pink would be stirred in with fur, leather, camel coating fabrics, motor bike peplums and angora knits.
What could have looked a mess instead had a kooky personality, with the clothes suggesting that, as in the real world, people can have the same things in their closets but wear them in quite different ways. Even big Indian-style earrings added a dimension of decoration that emphasized a sense of quirkiness.
As for his men's collection in January, Mr. Lim's show came under the broad heading of ''Sonomama'' -- a Japanese phrase that roughly translates as ''the way you are.'' That individuality is the essence of modernity.
Donna Karan's vision for DKNY was fluid in her favored jersey, draped to the body. The cut was both revealing and energetic, as a leg strode forward through an open split. Yet in another way the designer's style is as rigid as the gilded sculpture at the back of the runway.
''It's very signature,'' Ms. Karan said, explaining that the collection celebrated the aesthetic of her late husband, the sculptor Stephan Weiss, and was linked to the sculptural fragrance bottle for DKNY Woman, designed by the architect Zaha Hadid.
But where those artists might have turned their artistry into simplicity, Ms. Karan was on the opposite route. She took the ease of a camel coat or the streamlined effect of a simple black dress and then wrapped the designs up into a welter of pleats, drapes, capes, splits and lattice weaves. The effect was as complex as the ponytailed hair, swinging along, giving a modern sense of freedom.
Belstaff is going forward as a brand, moving from the motor-racing circuit to the smart city set. The takeoff might be slower than in motocross contests, but the chief creative officer Martin Cooper caught the essence of tough chic in the shiny, black waxed-cotton jackets with a flirty short skirt filling in some of the leggy gap down to black leather boots.
Mr. Cooper might have been referring to tense sporting moments or to more sensual concepts when he described ''the split second when fragility and danger collide.''
He might have spoken equally about the measured clash between tough outerwear fabrics, like oiled suede and techno twill, with the softness of shearling and silk georgette. The essence of the collection was luxury in its rich oxblood colors and its many tactile surfaces. This is definitely a collection to be appreciated by the fashion cognocenti, not glimpsed on a small screen in a taxi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (76%); FINE JEWELRY (65%)

PERSON: MARY-KATE OLSEN (74%); ASHLEY OLSEN (59%); MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



454 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Challenged for His Seat at 89, A Senator Does Not Go Gentle

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As he approached his 89th birthday this year, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey was finally considering retirement, an option he had tried a decade earlier and hated so much that he jumped at the chance to return to political life.
Now he was the oldest member of the Senate. His family was urging him not to seek a sixth term. Polls were showing that voters might not give him one, and he had never liked fund-raising.
Then came Cory A. Booker, the 43-year-old mayor of Newark, whose 1.3 million followers on Twitter and robust presence on television had given him a reputation as a rising star in the Democratic Party, announcing that he would run for the Senate when Mr. Lautenberg's term is up. He made his declaration nearly two years before Election Day, and, notably, before Mr. Lautenberg, a fellow Democrat, had announced his own intentions.
If Mr. Booker was hoping to nudge Mr. Lautenberg toward the door, his announcement has had precisely the opposite effect. Mr. Lautenberg, a fighter dubbed ''swamp dog'' by a past opponent, has embraced his job with new vigor. He has taken a leading role on the issues of the day: fighting for recovery money for his hurricane-hit state and pushing for gun control after the shootings in Newtown, Conn. 
And he brightens at the prospect of tussling with a man half his age, even speaking openly to his staff about running again. He has jabbed at Mr. Booker, joking that he deserves a spanking for trying to unseat a fellow Democrat, and noting that the well-traveled mayor has no shortage of work to do in his own struggling city. ''I'm going to finish the work I'm doing,'' he said in an interview. ''And he should finish the work he is doing instead of traipsing around the country.''
Though most in his inner circle say they believe it is more likely that Mr. Lautenberg will ultimately decide to retire, some of those same people say he is convincing when he talks about the next campaign.
Mr. Booker's challenge has exposed a delicate discussion that senators and the protective cordon of aides around them rarely conduct in public: at what point does experience become more of a liability than an asset?
No one would accuse the United States Senate of age discrimination; stalwarts like Strom Thurmond and Robert C. Byrd affirmed a tradition that allows senators to go out on a stretcher if they choose. After an infusion of young blood in the last two years, the median age is 61. In the last several weeks, Jay Rockefeller (age 75), the five-term senator, announced he would retire, as did Tom Harkin (72) and Saxby Chambliss (69), all speaking of their desire to enjoy life beyond politics, mentioning their frustration with the paralysis afflicting Congress and only hinting at the difficulty they may have faced winning re-election. But Mr. Lautenberg, who has been around so long that his signature accomplishment is the law that banned smoking on airplanes, has never been one to go gently.
Raised poor in Paterson, N.J., where his father worked in the silk mills, Mr. Lautenberg made a fortune as the chief executive of Automatic Data Processing, the payroll company he helped found after graduating from Columbia on the G.I. Bill. In five terms in the Senate, he has earned a reputation as a fighter even by bare-knuckled New Jersey standards.
In 2000, he lashed out at the state's junior senator, Robert G. Torricelli, during a Democratic weekly caucus lunch, accusing him of encouraging the state's Republican governor to run for Mr. Lautenberg's seat. (Mr. Torricelli, in turn, threatened to castrate him.)
Mr. Lautenberg announced his retirement that year, saying he did not have the stomach for fund-raising. But he eagerly accepted two years later when he was asked to replace Mr. Torricelli, who was facing an ethics investigation, on the ballot.
He is not among the senators complaining about the institution being ''broken.'' He loves the work, and has taken on some of the most difficult battles -- with chemical companies, to maintain the Superfund program, with the National Rifle Association, to ban gun sales to people convicted of domestic violence and with the alcohol industry, to lower the legal blood-alcohol limit for driving to .08.
He is a night owl who enjoys the receptions of official Washington. He married his second wife when he was 80 and she was 56. He also successfully battled cancer two years ago.
Still, he had become increasingly convinced that it might be time to leave. Knowing that Mr. Booker was considering a run, two of the senator's aides approached the mayor in December and noted that the signs were pointing toward Mr. Lautenberg's retirement. During a visit and in several spirited phone calls to his office, the aides told the mayor he would not have to wait long, and urged him not to announce his intention until Mr. Lautenberg announced his own exit, saying it would be highly disrespectful to a sitting senator from his own party. When Mr. Booker made it clear he would announce, they asked that he say what other lawmakers interested in the seat have said: that he would run only if Mr. Lautenberg retired.
Mr. Booker did not do so when he announced his interest in running for the seat in December, then formed an exploratory committee and declared himself an official candidate in January. After Democrats in New Jersey and Washington criticized him, Mr. Booker acknowledged that he had not even spoken with Mr. Lautenberg.
For his part, Mr. Lautenberg insists he did not ''give a damn'' about any offense Mr. Booker might have caused. ''He doesn't have to respect me,'' Mr. Lautenberg said. ''But other people were offended by it. And it won me a lot of friends.''
And indeed, though Mr. Lautenberg has never enjoyed particular affection from his state's Democratic establishment, party leaders in New Jersey and Washington have rushed to his defense, publicly chastising Mr. Booker for trying to push out a fellow Democrat.
''We in the Democratic Party brought Senator Lautenberg out of retirement, and he's done more than help us out,'' said Loretta Weinberg, the majority leader in the New Jersey State Senate. ''He's a great senator. Cory Booker will make a great future leader, but I think a little sensitivity was called for.''
Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third ranking Democrat in the Senate, said Mr. Lautenberg should not be pushed into a premature decision to retire. ''In just the last couple months, he's been effective on two big fronts: passing Sandy aid and fighting for reasonable laws on gun safety,'' he said. ''Frank deserves the time and respect to make his own decisions.''
Some might say turnabout is fair play. In his first race, against Millicent H. Fenwick, Mr. Lautenberg reminded voters of his Republican opponent's 72 years by referring to her as ''eccentric'' and ''a national monument.''
A recent poll showed that most New Jersey voters approve of Mr. Lautenberg, but an even larger majority thinks his age makes another six-year term too difficult.
Mr. Lautenberg, however, remembers how ''awful'' he found retirement the last time. He left the Senate before the start of a recession, the Sept. 11 attacks and the start of the war in Afghanistan. ''I'm sitting on the sidelines like a spectator,'' he recalled. ''That wasn't the place I wanted to be.''
''There's a lot of work to be done,'' he said. ''So whether or not, 20 months from now, I'll be on the slate is not the primary issue.''
There was talk that he would announce his retirement at the annual New Jersey Chamber of Commerce dinner in Washington on Jan. 31, but that morning, he was talking to his staff about running again.
Speaking to the 900 people at the dinner, he tweaked Mayor Booker for not attending: ''I thought traveling out of the city was one of his favorite activities; perhaps we're too close to Newark.''
As a young staff member led him out of the ballroom, he headed toward a reception, where music was thumping. His wife, Bonnie, intercepted him. Mr. Lautenberg deferred to her, deflated, and headed toward the door.
He was stopped twice by constituents, then veered, like a salmon swimming upstream, toward the lobby bar. As he made his third attempt to leave, 20 minutes later, he was stopped again, by two teachers. As the conversation turned to Newtown, he thumped his cane. ''We have got to bring this country to its senses.''
He moved on. More people stopped him. It was close to midnight, and Frank Lautenberg was only halfway to the door.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey may not retire after all. (A1)
 Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, center, met last month with federal transportation officials and senators from New York, including Kirsten E. Gillibrand, right, to discuss Hurricane Sandy relief. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (74%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (65%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); GUN CONTROL (50%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (93%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



455 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Dow Ends Above 14,000 For Year's Highest Close

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose to its highest close of the year Tuesday, putting it within 1 percent of its record. Stocks gained after two big consumer brands posted impressive quarterly results.
The Dow closed up 47.46 points, or 0.34 percent, to 14,018.70 Tuesday. That is 146 points from its record close of 14,164.53 set in October 2007. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.42 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,519.43, also close to its record.
In a day of quiet trading, stocks were driven higher by the beauty products maker Avon and the luxury clothing and accessories company Michael Kors, whose results impressed investors. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity in the United States. 
Financial and home-building stocks, led by the Bank of America and the Masco Corporation, which reported some of the day's biggest gains, also lifted the averages.
The Dow has logged its best January in almost two decades after lawmakers reached a last-minute deal to avoid sweeping tax increases and spending cuts. Investors are also becoming more optimistic that the housing market is recovering and that hiring is picking up.
The Dow has advanced 7 percent this year and the S.& P. 500 is up 6.6 percent.
The 30-member Dow has closed above 14,000 twice this month. Before February, the index closed above that level just nine times in its history. The first time was in July 2007; the rest were in October of that year.
Shares of Avon rose $3.51, or 20 percent, to $20.79 after the company posted a fourth-quarter loss that was not as bad as analysts expected. The company also hopes to save $400 million by slashing costs. Michael Kors rose $5, or 9 percent, to $62 after reporting earnings that beat analysts' predictions.
Bank of America was the biggest gainer on the Dow, adding 38 cents, or 3.25 percent, to $12.24. Stocks gaining in the index outnumbered those falling by a ratio of more than four to one.
About 70 percent of companies in the S.& P. 500 have reported earnings for the fourth quarter. Analysts are projecting that earnings will rise 6.4 percent for the period, an improvement from the 2.4 percent growth reported in the third quarter, according to S.& P. Capital IQ.
Investors may have become too optimistic about the outlook for stocks, said Uri Landesman, president of the hedge fund Platinum Partners.
''The market is priced for perfection,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''The odds of a disappointment are very, very high.''
Mr. Landesman predicts that the S.& P. 500 will climb past its record and rise as high as 1,600 by April before then slumping as low as 1,300 as company earnings start to disappoint investors. The record close for the S.& P. 500 is 1,565, reached in October 2007.
Investors were expected to be watching closely Tuesday night when President Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address. Mr. Obama was expected to focus on the economy, including job creation.
A decline in bond prices since the beginning of the year has also slowed. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 4/32 to 96 28/32 on Tuesday and the yield rose to 1.98 percent from 1.96 percent late Monday. The yield was 1.71 percent at the beginning of the year.
In other trading Tuesday, the Nasdaq composite index was down 5.51 points, or 0.17 percent, to 3,186.49.
Among other stocks making big moves:
Coca-Cola, the beverage company, fell $1.05, or 2.7 percent, to $37.56 after reporting fourth-quarter revenue that fell short of analysts' forecasts.
Masco, a home improvement and building product company, rose $2.22, or nearly 13 percent, to $20.01 after reporting earnings that beat analysts' expectations, helped by strong demand in North America.
Dun & Bradstreet, a provider of credit and business data, fell $6.60, or 7.7 percent, to $78.68 after the company reported a fourth-quarter profit that was below market expectations.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (67%); TOILETRIES MFG (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MASCO CORP (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: MAS (NYSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS238350 FINISH CARPENTRY CONTRACTORS (69%); NAICS238310 DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (69%); NAICS238220 PLUMBING, HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (69%); SIC1742 PLASTERING, DRYWALL, ACOUSTICAL, & INSULATION WORK (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



456 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Raising Minimum Wage Would Ease Income Gap but Carries Political Risks

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama called on Congress to raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour from $7.25 and to automatically adjust it with inflation, a move aimed at increasing the earnings of millions of cooks, janitors, aides to the elderly and other low-wage workers.
The proposal directly addresses the country's yawning levels of income inequality, which the White House has tried to reduce with targeted tax credits, a major expansion of health insurance, education and other proposals. But it is sure to be politically divisive, especially given the weakness of the recovery and the continued high levels of joblessness. 
The proposal would see the federal floor on hourly wages reach $9 in stages by the end of 2015. Tying the minimum wage to inflation would allow it to rise along with the cost of living. If enacted, the measure would boost the wages of about 15 million low-income workers, the White House estimated. The $9 minimum wage would be the highest in more than three decades, accounting for inflation, but still lower than the peaks reached in the 1960s and 1970s.
''Even with the tax relief we've put in place, a family with two kids that earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line. That's wrong,'' Mr. Obama said in his State of the Union address Tuesday night. ''Let's declare that in the wealthiest nation on earth, no one who works full time should have to live in poverty.''
The White House said that the move would have profoundly positive effects for low-income families without unduly burdening businesses or raising the unemployment rate. It cited research showing ''no detectable employment losses from the kind of minimum wage increases we have seen in the United States.'' The White House also pointed to companies like Costco, the retail discount chain, and Stride Rite, a children's shoe seller, that have previously supported increasing the minimum wage as a way to reduce employee turnover and improve workers' productivity.
But the move would almost certainly face stiff opposition. Many companies that hire low-wage workers -- both small businesses and large businesses -- have in the past vociferously opposed raising the minimum wage, as it increases their cost of business. By making employees more expensive for companies to hire, some economists argue that higher minimum wages increase the unemployment rate -- a particularly toxic possibility given the high levels of joblessness that remain long after the recession has ended.
Moreover, some economists, like David Neumark of the University of California, Irvine, have even argued that minimum wages are counterproductive at reducing poverty.
On top of that, conservatives have often argued that higher minimum wages burden job creators, especially during times when the economy is weak. House Speaker John A. Boehner voted against a 2006 bill letting the minimum wage rise to its current level of $7.25 from $5.15. The legislation ultimately passed with bipartisan support in 2007, though many Republicans voted against it.
But many centrist, labor and liberal groups have pushed for higher minimum wages, and left-of-center research groups praised Mr. Obama's new push on Tuesday evening.
''The president said he was putting jobs and the economy front and center tonight, and that's exactly what he did by calling for a minimum wage increase,'' Christine Owens, the executive director of the National Employment Law Project, said in a statement. ''A higher minimum wage is key to getting the economy back on track for working people and the middle class. The president's remarks also cement the growing consensus on the left and right that one of the best ways to get the economy going again is to put money in the pockets of people who work.''
Many state and local government set their own minimum wages above the federal floor. Currently Washington is the only state that sets a minimum wage above $9 an hour, but several states exceed the current rate of $7.25.
The White House said that the $1.75 increase in the minimum wage would be enough to offset roughly 10 to 20 percent of the increase in income inequality since 1980. According to data compiled by the economists Thomas Piketty, at the Paris School of Economics, and Emmanuel Saez, at the University of California, Berkeley, inequality has worsened considerably during that time, and many metrics show that wages have stagnated or declined for millions of working families. The income share of the top 1 percent of earners has doubled, to 20 percent in 2011 from 10 percent in 1980. Between 1980 and 2008, according to analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, the top 10 percent of earners captured 98 percent of all income gains.
The proposal is one of several that the White House has put forward to tackle that inequality. In the speech, Mr. Obama also proposed expanding early childhood education programs -- another path that experts say can tackle inequality by leveling the playing field and increasing mobility among children from low-income families. ''Every dollar we invest in high-quality early education can save more than $7 later on by boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Let's do what works, and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind. Let's give our kids that chance.''
In his 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama proposed lifting the minimum wage yet higher, to $9.50. Under the current proposal, the White House said that a family earning $20,000 to $30,000 would see an additional $3,500 of income a year.
''This single step would raise the incomes of millions of working families,'' said Mr. Obama on Tuesday night. ''It could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank, rent or eviction, scraping by or finally getting ahead. For businesses across the country, it would mean customers with more money in their pockets. In fact, working folks shouldn't have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go up while C.E.O. pay has never been higher.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Federal Minimum Wage (Source: Department of Labor) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); FAMILY (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); SHOE STORES (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



457 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: In Shovels, A Remedy For Jobs And Growth

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
The budget deficit in 2013 is expected to fall below $1 trillion for the first time in five years. Perhaps policy makers in Washington can now focus on the other $1 trillion deficit, one that gets next to no attention yet is much more threatening to the well-being of American families: our sluggish economic growth.
At the end of last year, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the economy was still about 5.5 percent smaller than it would have been had it avoided the recession and kept growing along its long-term potential path, making full use of the workers and equipment currently sitting idle. A rebound is hardly around the corner. Growth this year will average only 1.4 percent, according to the budget office's latest forecast. By the time we recover to our potential -- which the C.B.O. expects will take until 2017 -- the Great Recession set off by the implosion of the housing bubble more than five years ago will have cost us nearly half of one year's entire economic production: about $7.5 trillion. 
We will be paying the price for years. The slump is hindering capital investment, stunting the careers of college graduates and encouraging workers to drop out of the labor force, potentially blighting the economy over the long term. The C.B.O. expects unemployment to remain above 7.5 percent through next year.
And low growth is crimping government finances -- reducing tax revenue while, at the same time, increasing the cost of programs like unemployment insurance. Last year, the budget office calculated that sluggish growth alone was responsible for more than a quarter of the budget deficit over the last four years.
And yet the government is doing little to turn things around. The collapse of public spending, mainly by state and local governments, explains most of the subpar growth since 2009, according to the C.B.O., more than sluggish consumer spending or business investment. In the final three months of last year, the economy may have even shrunk a bit, dragged down by declining military spending.
Now, the government is expected to deliver another wallop to the struggling economy. This year, the budget office expects that budget tightening -- including the so-called sequestration, the battery of spending cuts set to take effect on March 1 unless the White House and the Republicans agree on an alternative plan to cut the budget -- will cut economic growth in half.
Our protracted stagnation calls into question the priorities of our elected officials, who are consumed in a debate over how to cut spending even as the economy drifts. ''We should be thinking about all the tools of economic policy to get the economy to escape velocity,'' said Lawrence Summers, President Obama's former top economic adviser.
This is bringing us back to the questions that were hotly debated over the Obama administration's fiscal stimulus package of 2009. What power does the government have to pull the economy out of its rut? How much do tax cuts or spending programs stimulate growth? Even if Mr. Summers's priorities were shared across the political spectrum, there is little consensus on what kind of tools should be used.
Jared Bernstein, the former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph Biden who is now at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, argues that while fiscal consolidation would have been necessary at some point, the government slammed the brakes on spending before families were ready to spend again, while they were still working to reduce large debt burdens.
''The stimulus didn't last long enough,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''We pivoted to deficit reduction too soon.''
Not everybody agrees. Conservative economists, and most Republicans in the House, make the exact opposite argument: that spending cuts stimulate growth by giving businesses confidence that the government will be able to pay its debts.
While few economists share this view, many are indeed skeptical of deploying more government spending now to pull the economy out of the hole. When the Obama administration unveiled its first fiscal stimulus package, in the early weeks of 2009, the federal government's debt to the public amounted to only 35 percent of our gross domestic product. Today, it amounts to about 75 percent. That kind of debt scares people.
''If debt were at 20 percent of G.D.P. I would be a big stimulus guy,'' said Olivier Blanchard, the International Monetary Fund's chief economist. ''Now, more fiscal stimulus would be playing with fire.''
The Congressional Budget Office's calculations suggest caution. It estimates that the administration's fiscal stimulus produced about $1 of economic output for every $1 in stimulus, on average. Spending on infrastructure -- say, repairing bridges and roads -- produced a bigger bang for the buck, because it also encouraged private investment. Tax cuts, on the other hand, yielded less, because taxpayers saved some of their windfall rather than spend it.
Since federal taxes across the entire population add up to a top rate of about 25 percent, this implies that $1 worth of stimulus would generate 25 cents in taxes, increasing the deficit by 75 cents.
Earlier this month, the budget office produced an analysis of the impact that further deficits would have on the economy. A $2 trillion fiscal stimulus would increase growth for the next three or four years. But as the economy recovered, the deficit would crowd out private investment, reducing growth over the decade. By 2023, government debt would amount to 87 percent of G.D.P.
Perhaps low growth is something we have to live with, for now. Even assuming that sequestration takes place, the C.B.O. forecasts that the economy will grow 3.4 percent next year -- bringing us a little closer to our maximum potential output. In a related analysis, it concluded that while budget tightening weakens the economy in the short term, growth rebounds more strongly a few years down the road.
''We're almost there in terms of fiscal adjustment,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the I.M.F. who is now at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''If we don't do it now,'' he asked, ''when will we?'' Even the liberal research group the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities recommends that the budget deficit be cut by a further $1.5 trillion over the next decade to stabilize the federal debt.
But there is another way to look at our policy options. It just requires analyzing more closely the potential return on public investment over the long term.
Mr. Summers points out that there are many profitable investment opportunities for the government to improve the nation's physical infrastructure, opportunities that would yield much more than a dollar in economic output for each dollar spent. There is also plenty of idle capacity in the construction industry -- unemployed workers, unused machinery. And the government can borrow for 15 years at negative real interest rates.
While he argues that we also need commitments now to reduce future budget deficits, not borrowing the money now to make the investments would be unconscionable. Some of them may even pay for themselves.
Putting fallow resources to work -- which also means employing men and women who are becoming obsolete -- will, he suggests, bolster growth more than people expect. ''It's not like we're never going to fix our infrastructure,'' Mr. Summers said. ''Not doing it now burdens future generations just as surely as more debt does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Applicants at a job fair last month. Unemployment may stay above 7.5 percent through 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) CHART: The Cost of the Recession: By the time the economy is projected to recover to its potential, we will have lost about $7.5 trillion in economic output. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



458 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Nevin S. Scrimshaw, Pioneer Nutritionist, Dies at 95

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Dr. Nevin S. Scrimshaw, a nutritionist who improved the health of millions of children in developing countries by creating low-cost vegetable-based foods for weaning infants, died on Friday in Plymouth, N.H. He was 95.
The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter, Dr. Susan C. Scrimshaw, said.
To help protein-starved children in Central America, Dr. Scrimshaw created a gruel made of corn, sorghum and cottonseed flour that was nutritionally equivalent to milk. In India, he adapted the same principle to peanut flour and wheat. He then brought both products to market, where they sold for only pennies. 
Working in Central America, Dr. Scrimshaw also helped eliminate endemic goiter in children -- a swelling of the thyroid gland that can lead to mental retardation, deafness and dwarfism. The ailment is caused by a mother's iodine deficiency.
Dr. Scrimshaw found that European and American techniques to iodize salt were ineffective with the crude, moist salt of Central America, so he came up with a new iodine compound that proved effective there. He then worked with governments in the region to require iodation of all salt for human consumption.
Dr. Scrimshaw was a leader in research that helped prove that malnutrition and infection interact to produce far greater consequences than if only one or the other condition were present. He amassed evidence to demonstrate that chronic undernutrition was a greater threat to the third world than famine. And in his work in developing nations he emphasized the importance of iron and Vitamin A to the diet and helped start initiatives to distribute supplements.
''The bottom line is that he is probably unchallenged as the most important nutrition scientist and nutrition leader in the world,'' said Irwin Rosenberg, chairman of the Nevin Scrimshaw International Nutrition Foundation at Tufts University.
The foundation was just one organization that Dr. Scrimshaw helped build and run to address nutrition issues. In 1949 he founded the Institute of Nutrition of Central America and Panama, based in Guatemala City, and did much of his research there. He also started a world hunger program at the United Nations University in New York and a nutrition department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The World Food Prize Foundation honored him with its award in 1991, saying his ''revolutionary accomplishments'' had improved ''the lives of millions.''
Nevin Stewart Scrimshaw was born on Jan. 20, 1918, in Milwaukee, where his father, Stewart, was an economics professor at Marquette University. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in biology from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1938 and earned a Ph.D. from Harvard in physiology in 1941.
He entered the University of Rochester's medical school while participating in an Army medical corps training program. As part of his Army service he did his internship at Gorgas Hospital in the Canal Zone in 1945-46. He earned a master's in public health from Harvard in 1959.
Years later he said his medical school professors in Rochester had thought he was throwing away a promising career by concentrating on something as marginal, to them, as nutrition.
He was working in Central America in the 1950s when he witnessed an ailment known as kwashiorkor, a form of post-weaning protein malnutrition that plagued infants and children in developing countries. When he encouraged mothers to give their children milk, he found that they could afford to put only a teaspoon of milk in a glass of water.
Dr. Scrimshaw knew he had found his mission, but it took him seven years to complete it. He started with the realization that protein-rich soybeans do not grow in the tropics, and that sesame seeds and peanuts were too expensive. But cotton was abundant in Central America, and cottonseed meal was being exported for animal feed.
The meal, however, had a pigment that was toxic to humans. Dr. Scrimshaw and his colleagues found a way to eliminate the poisonous effect, and added vitamins and other nutrients.
Cooks were instructed to add water to the gruel, cook it for 15 minutes and flavor it with sugar, cinnamon, vanilla or chocolate. Called Incaparina -- the name was taken from Incap, the acronym for his institute, and the Spanish word for flour, harina -- it cost a penny a glass and spread throughout Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua.
During a famine in India in 1967, Dr. Scrimshaw made a similar food from peanut flour and wheat to combat kwashiorkor. That led to his research showing the synergistic relationship between malnutrition and infection.
In 1941 Dr. Scrimshaw married Mary Ware Goodrich, a nutritional anthropologist, with whom he worked closely throughout his career. She and his daughter survive him, as do his sons Norman, Nevin B., Steven and Nathaniel; eight grandchildren; four step-grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
As a prominent nutritionist, Dr. Scrimshaw, who continued to ski and hike into his 90s, was often asked his views on issues ranging from snacking on chocolate to substituting two pieces of pie for lunch. He said he was gratified to learn that chocolate is actually good for you in limited amounts. As for the pie, he advised taking it easy the next day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Nevin S. Scrimshaw examined children in Guatemala in 1953 for goiter, a condition he helped to eliminate there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORNELL CAPA/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); NUTRITION (91%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (74%); MENTAL RETARDATION (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (71%); ARMIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); BIOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%); DEAFNESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); INDIA (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



459 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows Push to Life Economy for Middle Class

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama, seeking to put the prosperity and promise of the middle class at the heart of his second-term agenda, called on Congress on Tuesday night to raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour, saying that would lift millions out of poverty and energize the economy.
In an assertive State of the Union address that fleshed out the populist themes of his inauguration speech, Mr. Obama declared it was ''our generation's task'' to ''reignite the true engine of America's economic growth -- a rising, thriving middle class.''
''Every day,'' he said, ''we should ask ourselves three questions as a nation: How do we attract more jobs to our shores? How do we equip our people with the skills to get those jobs? And how do we make sure that hard work leads to a decent living?'' 
The increase in the minimum wage, from $7.25 an hour now, was the most tangible of a raft of initiatives laid out by the president, from education and energy to public works projects. Taken together, Mr. Obama said, these investments would accelerate the nation's recovery by helping those in the broad middle class.
Raising the minimum wage holds particular political appeal for younger Americans, struggling workers and labor groups, all of which were important to Mr. Obama's re-election. His proposal drew one of the loudest ovations of the evening from Democrats in the House chamber.
Speaking to a divided Congress, with many Republicans still smarting from his November victory, Mr. Obama declared, ''Together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis, and we can say with renewed confidence that the state of our union is stronger.''
He urged lawmakers to act on immigration, climate change, budget negotiations, and, above all, on gun violence, delivering an emotional appeal for stricter controls that drew on recent tragedies like the schoolhouse massacre in Newtown, Conn.
''They deserve a vote,'' Mr. Obama declared over and over, gesturing to victims of various shootings, who were scattered through the audience.
Mr. Obama took the podium after a rousing welcome from lawmakers and other dignitaries. But millions of TV viewers, not to mention people glancing at their smartphones inside the chamber, were distracted by a manhunt across the country, where the police in California were tracking a suspect in the killing of officers and others.
News coverage concentrated on the search almost up to the point the president entered the chamber, and immediately after he finished, networks cut away to continue reporting on the events in California.
Republicans quickly rejected Mr. Obama's activist approach, saying it would inevitably translate into higher taxes and an overweening government role, strangling economic growth and deepening the nation's fiscal hole.
Still, in selecting Senator Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American from Florida, to deliver their party's official rebuttal, Republicans implicitly acknowledged the damage they had suffered at the polls from their hard line stance on immigration. Mr. Rubio, one of the party's rising stars, favors overhauling immigration laws.
On Tuesday, he complained that Mr. Obama's ''solution to virtually every problem we face is for Washington to tax more, borrow more, and spend more.''
In a speech dominated by domestic issues, Mr. Obama admonished North Korea a day after it tested a nuclear weapon. He warned the country's reclusive government that it faced further isolation, swift retaliation and a United States bent on improving its own missile defense systems.
As new threats erupted, however, old threats were receding, Mr. Obama said. He announced, for example, that 34,000 troops would return home from Afghanistan by this time next year. That withdrawal, representing slightly more than half the current American force, underlined his resolve to quickly wind down the second war of his presidency.
Mr. Obama did not match the lofty tone of his inauguration speech, but the address was clearly intended to be its workmanlike companion. In place of his ringing call for a more equitable society was a package of proposals that constitute a blueprint for the remainder of his presidency. Some would require legislation; others merely an executive order.
Among the proposals was a $1 billion investment to create 15 institutes to develop new manufacturing technologies, building on the success of a pilot project in Youngstown, Ohio. He said he would use oil and gas royalties from federal lands to pay for research in clean energy technology that would wean cars and trucks off oil.
Mr. Obama pledged to work with states to provide high-quality preschool to every child in America. And he recycled a proposal to help homeowners refinance their mortgages.
None of these proposals, Mr. Obama said, would add to the deficit, since they were consistent with the budget deal of 18 months ago. ''It's not a bigger government we need,'' he said, ''but a smarter government that sets priorities and invests in broad-based growth.''
Mr. Obama also signaled, however, that the era of single-minded deficit-cutting should end. He noted that the recent agreements on taxes and spending reduced the deficit by $2.5 trillion, more than halfway toward the $4 trillion in reductions that economists say would put the nation's finances on a sustainable course.
Mr. Obama spoke darkly of the consequences of a failure to reach a budget deal, which would set off automatic spending cuts on the military and other programs. ''These sudden, harsh, arbitrary cuts would jeopardize our military readiness,'' he said.
On climate change, Mr. Obama endorsed the cap-and-trade legislation once championed by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, but long stalled in Congress. Though the president said he would not hesitate to use executive orders to push his own measures to reduce carbon emissions, he did not give any details.
In another sign of the election's lingering shadow, Mr. Obama was creating a bipartisan commission to investigate voting irregularities that led to long lines at polling sites in November. Studies indicate that these lines cost Democrats hundreds of thousands of votes. The commission will be led by the chief counsel of the Obama presidential campaign, Robert Bauer, and a legal adviser to Mitt Romney's campaign, Ben Ginsberg.
On trade policy, the president said that the United States and the European Union were ready to begin negotiations on a comprehensive trade treaty. That came after a report submitted earlier in the day concluded that the gaps between the two sides were narrow enough to put a deal within reach.
The most impassioned parts of the speech echoed those that Mr. Obama delivered on the west front of the Capitol three weeks ago.
''It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country,'' he said. ''The idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead, no matter where you come from, what you look like, or who you love.''
''It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few,'' he continued. ''That it encourages free enterprise, rewards individual initiative and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation of ours.''
Children loomed large on Tuesday night. In addition to a teacher from Sandy Hook Elementary School, the guests included the parents of Hadiya Pendleton, a 15-year-old high school student whose shooting death in Chicago has become an emblem of the grim toll of gun violence.
''She was 15 years old,'' Mr. Obama said of Ms. Pendleton, in words that briefly transcended the political bromides and policy prescriptions of these speeches. ''She loved Fig Newtons and lip gloss. She was a majorette. She was so good to her friends, they all thought they were her best friend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama called for ''a rising, thriving middle class'' during his address on Tuesday.
Carolyn Murray's son was shot to death in Evanston, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
President Obama entering the House Chamber Tuesday. ''Together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis,'' he told lawmakers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHARTS: Obama's Themes: Selected words used by President Obama on Tuesday night and in his previous State of the Union addresses. (Sources: The White House
Federal News Service)
 The Fate of Presidents' State of the Union Wishes: Of the legislative requests that presidents have made during the State of the Union address since 1965, just under half were at least partly successful, according to the political scientists Donna R. Hoffman and Alison D. Howard. They measured whether a president achieved his request, achieved some version of it or did not achieve it. President Obama achieved just over half of the requests he made during his first two addresses, but has seen his success rate decline since Republicans took control of the House in 2011. (Sources: Donna R. Hoffman, University of Northern Iowa, and Alison D. Howard, Dominican University of California.) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); POLICE FORCES (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); HOMICIDE (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



460 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Marriott Marquis Deal Could Cost Taxpayers $345 Million, Audit Says

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Marriott Marquis, the 50-story convention hotel in Times Square, sits atop some of the most valuable land in all of New York City, if not the world.
But because of a lease signed by the Giuliani administration in 1998, Marriott can buy the property from the city for only $19.9 million, one-tenth of its current $193 million value, according to a new audit by the city comptroller, John C. Liu.
Mr. Liu said the terms of the 1998 lease could end up costing taxpayers $344.9 million in lost rent and proceeds from the sale of the property. 
Marriott, whose Marquis Times Square generates more revenue than any other hotel in its worldwide portfolio, also owes the city $3.6 million and failed to keep adequate records that would enable the city to determine whether it has received all the money that it is due, according to the audit.
''Even in 1998, it's hard to imagine that property values would slump so badly,'' Mr. Liu said. ''There is an opportunity here to renegotiate this deal in a way that could bring millions back for taxpayers.''
Marriott and the Bloomberg administration sharply disputed the audit's conclusions.
''The comptroller's office did not understand the Marriott Marquis hotel deal, and its audit report is wrong on all counts,'' Marriott said in a statement.
On Twitter, Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, issued a sarcastic response to the audit: ''Looks like @JohnCLiu has run out of things to audit, now rummaging thru Giuliani files. Shocker: Times Sq turnaround didn't happen by itself.''
But Mr. Liu stood by his report, saying the audit relied on Marriott's lease, prior audits and internal memos at the city's Economic Development Corporation.
Randy Levine, who as deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration negotiated the 1998 agreement, said he could not recall its specifics. Mr. Levine is now president of the New York Yankees.
The audit's most striking finding is that the city appears to have far undervalued the land.
The hotel, with more than 1,900 rooms, a ballroom, exhibition and meeting space, shops and a theater, sits on the west side of Broadway, between 45th and 46th Streets. It is the flagship for Marriott's 33 hotels in New York City under nine brands.
''Times Square is a unique market in which the sky may be the limit for land,'' said Daniel F. Sciannameo, president of Albert Valuation Group, an appraiser. ''Recent prices are off the charts.''
In the early 1980s, the city and the state were desperate to redevelop Times Square, then a district of T-shirt and X-rated shops and shuttered theaters that many New Yorkers avoided. With Times Square considered a risky location, the government provided a menu of tax breaks and other incentives to encourage redevelopment projects by Marriott and others.
The city and the state signed a 75-year lease with Marriott in 1982 that was intended to ease the hotel's financial burden by setting a low initial rent, a portion of which was deferred until the lease expired in 2057.
Under its original 1982 lease, Marriott had the option to buy the land for ''fair market value,'' after paying all deferred rent and repaying a low-interest federal loan. The lease stipulated that each side would hire an appraiser to establish the price.
Sixteen years later, in 1998, Marriott asked the Giuliani administration to revise the terms of its lease, so it could comply with requirements for forming a real estate investment trust.
By then, Times Square was beginning to thrive.
Marriott agreed to pay $54 million to cover some deferred rent and to repay the federal loan. The city, in turn, changed the rent calculation and amended the purchase price, inserting a formula that effectively reduced it to $19.9 million, according to the audit.
Marriott contends that it does not owe the $3.6 million cited by the comptroller because the original sum had been paid in 1998.
As for the purchase option, Marriott said the annual rent payments it had made to the city should be deducted from the purchase price.
But the comptroller's office points out that nowhere in the original lease does it say that there would be a deduction for rent payments.
The revised 1998 lease eliminated the requirement for appraisers and instead set a price. According to the audit, the Economic Development Corporation failed to do a comparative analysis to establish whether the revised lease was in the best interests of the city.
According to internal city documents, Marriott offered to buy the property in 2010 for $10.7 million, even less than what was stipulated in the revised lease, although nothing came of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marriott's 1998 lease with New York City lets it buy the land under the Marriott Marquis for $19.9 million, far below its value now, the city comptroller said. He attacked other terms, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



461 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: The President's Challenge to Congress

 BODY:
Americans who have become weary of Washington's endless battles over spending and taxes -- and the stagnating economy that stalemate has produced -- got a chance to hear about a different path on Tuesday night. President Obama's message in the State of the Union address was clear: It doesn't have to be this way.
The country doesn't have to get bogged down by demands for endless austerity and government contraction. It doesn't have to defer investments in education and public works. The poor don't have to remain on society's lower rungs, and the middle class can aspire to do better. Mr. Obama said his proposals to bring about growth with government action would not have to raise the deficit. 
What is required to move the country forward is political will, which has been missing for too long. While many of the president's proposals were familiar, and will probably be snuffed out by politics, his speech explained to a wide audience what could be achieved if there were even a minimal consensus in Washington.
Mr. Obama called for a series of steps that would provide enormous benefit for the middle class and for those hoping to enter it: universal public preschool in every state, a tax code that encourages manufacturing, a higher minimum wage and vital repairs to infrastructure. These and other investments could be paid for by ending tax loopholes for corporations and the wealthy, the kind of tax reform that Republicans have already said they support. The effect on jobs and incomes would be significant.
''Most Americans -- Democrats, Republicans and independents -- understand that we can't just cut our way to prosperity,'' he said. ''They know that broad-based economic growth requires a balanced approach to deficit reduction, with spending cuts and revenue.''
Repairing the economy was only one of the challenges the president set before Congress. If lawmakers could overcome ideology and extreme partisanship, they could make real progress on things that most Americans say they want, including immigration and an improved voting system. In the most emotional moment of the night, drawing sustained cheers, he said victims of gun violence deserve a vote on each of his gun control proposals, from background checks to a ban on assault weapons.
But on virtually every one of these issues, Republicans are standing in the way. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, the Republicans' designated responder, wielded the party's ancient cliché that the president simply wanted more ''big government.''
In fact, according to the president, spending is going down, thanks to $1.4 trillion in cuts already enacted. That makes investing in programs like universal preschool more affordable. By educating children at a critical juncture in their lives, such a program could help reduce dropout rates later. The Center for American Progress estimates a similar idea would cost $200 billion over 10 years, but no investment would be more important.
''Every dollar we invest in high-quality early childhood education can save more than $7 later on,'' he said, ''by boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime.''
Raising the minimum wage to $9 from $7.25, and indexing it to the cost of living, would lift many families out of poverty, though it was not clear why Mr. Obama backed down from his 2008 proposal for a $9.50 wage.
Mr. Obama laid out a timetable for withdrawing 34,000 American troops from Afghanistan by this time next year; we would have preferred that all 68,000 troops be pulled out. He also made an intriguing promise of greater transparency in targeting enemy combatants, which will require clarification in the days to come.
He failed to propose a strong legislative agenda to eliminate long lines at the polls, instead announcing a bipartisan commission to recommend changes, even though good bills to improve registration and early voting have already been introduced.
Nonetheless, Mr. Obama's broad second-term agenda is impressive. It is largely what won him re-election. His task now is to turn his widespread public support into a wedge to break Washington's gridlock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GUN CONTROL (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (75%); TAX REFORM (75%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%); SHOOTINGS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



462 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Defiance

 BODY:
North Korea's third nuclear weapons test has dashed any hope that its new dictator, Kim Jong-un, would be any more sensible than his father or grandfather before him. It has reaffirmed the international community's utter failure to devise a policy that might reverse, or at least slow, the North's nuclear program. 
The next step for the United States and its partners is to urgently review strategies, including additional sanctions, that might yet keep North Korea from becoming a full-fledged nuclear power. That, of course, is going to require a more robust response from China than North Korea's main supporter has been willing to make.
It may be some days before we know the details of the test, conducted after weeks of forewarning by North Korea that it was coming and a host of nations that it should not. On Tuesday, the director of national intelligence, James Clapper Jr., said in a statement that the explosive yield was ''approximately several kilotons,'' compared to less than one kiloton in the 2006 test and two to six kilotons registered in 2009. This suggests North Korea is beginning to produce devices with substantial power.
North Korea's official news agency also claimed this test was of a ''miniaturized and lighter nuclear device'' which, if true, would be a step closer to the ability to place a warhead on a ballistic missile.
The other unknown is whether the test used plutonium fuel, as previous tests did, or highly enriched uranium, as experts consider likely. The North voluntarily stopped making plutonium in 2008, but, in 2010, after years of denials, revealed to visiting American experts an enrichment facility that could be producing several bombs' worth of uranium a year. If the North Koreans tested a uranium-based nuclear device, it suggests they are expanding their arsenal and might be more likely to sell deadly wares when they've been developed.
By defying the United Nations Security Council, which repeatedly has imposed sanctions for North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, Mr. Kim was undoubtedly trying to enhance his status with his people. But his actions ensure that the country remains isolated and that he is unable to feed its people or revive the economy as he promised. China, the North's main provider of food and fuel, publicly warned that North Korea would pay a heavy price if it went ahead with the test. Although it has supported past sanctions on North Korea, China has never used its leverage fully because it fears instability on the Korean Peninsula more than a nuclear North Korea. The reality is that instability is growing anyway as the North becomes more nuclear-capable.
North Korea's latest defiance humiliated China and is a test for its own new leader, Xi Jinping. China should not only take the lead in pushing for tighter Security Council sanctions but make clear it will more rigorously enforce existing sanctions with a focus on penalties that harm the regime's leaders.
There is no silver bullet, but more creative thinking is needed. China and the United States should be working to covertly disrupt the North's nuclear program, as was done with Iran. The United States should invest more in Radio Free Asia so that more outside information could reach North Korea's people. Still, it should keep seeking dialogue. No good comes from ignoring North Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (73%); XI JINPING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



463 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Tech Firms Join Bid for Easing Of Immigration

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- What do computer programmers and illegal immigrants have to do with each other?
When it comes to the sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration laws that Congress is considering this year, the answer is everything.
Silicon Valley executives, who have long pressed the government to provide more visas for foreign-born math and science brains, are joining forces with an array of immigration groups seeking comprehensive changes in the law. And as momentum builds in Washington for a broad revamping, the tech industry has more hope than ever that it will finally achieve its goal: the expanded access to visas that it says is critical to its own continued growth and that of the economy as a whole.
Signs of the industry's stepped-up engagement on the issue are visible everywhere. Prominent executives met with President Obama last week. Start-up founders who rarely abandon their computers have flown across the country to meet with lawmakers.
This Tuesday, the Technology CEO Council, an advocacy organization representing companies like Dell, Intel and Motorola, had meetings on Capitol Hill. On Wednesday, Steve Case, a founder of AOL, is scheduled to testify at the first Senate hearing this year on immigration legislation, alongside the head of the deportation agents' union and the leader of a Latino civil rights group. 
''The odds of high-skilled passing without comprehensive is close to zero, and the odds of comprehensive passing without high-skilled passing is close to zero,'' said Robert D. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan research group based in Washington.
The push comes as a clutch of powerful Senate Republicans and Democrats have reached a long-elusive agreement on some basic principles of a ''comprehensive'' revamping of immigration law. Separately, a bipartisan bill introduced in the Senate in late January focuses directly on the visa issue.
The industry's argument for more so-called high-skilled visas has already persuaded the president.
''Real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods, reduce bureaucracy, and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy,'' Mr. Obama said in Tuesday's State of the Union speech.
In a speech in Las Vegas in January in which he introduced his own blueprint for overhauling immigration law, Mr. Obama embraced the idea that granting more visas was essential to maintaining innovation and job growth. He talked about foreigners studying at American universities, figuring out how to turn their ideas into businesses.
In part, the new alliance between the tech industry and immigration groups was born out of the 2012 elections and the rising influence of Hispanic voters.
''The world has changed since the election,'' said Peter J. Muller, director of government relations at Intel, pointing out that the defeat of many Republican candidates had led to a softening of the party's position on broad changes to immigration law. ''There is a focus on comprehensive. We're thrilled by it.''
''At this point,'' he added, ''our best hope for immigration reform lies with comprehensive reform.''
Mr. Case, the AOL co-founder, who now runs an investment fund, echoed that sentiment after meeting with the president last Tuesday.
''I look forward to doing whatever I can to help pass comprehensive immigration reform in the months ahead,'' he said, ''and ensure it includes strong provisions regarding high-skilled immigration, so we are positioned to win the global battle for talent.''
That sort of sentiment delights immigrants' rights advocates who have banged their heads against the wall for years to rally a majority of Congress around their agenda.
''The stars are aligning here,'' said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. ''You've got the politics of immigration reform changing. You've got tech leaders leaning in not just for high-skilled but for broader immigration reform.''
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who is co-sponsoring the bill to increase the number of visas available for highly skilled immigrants, said the cooperation went both ways.
''All the talk about the STEM field -- science, technology, engineering, mathematics -- has awakened even those who aren't all that interested in the high-tech world,'' he said.
While the growing momentum has surprised many in Washington, comprehensive change is still not a sure thing, especially in the Republican-controlled House.
Mr. Hatch said he would push forward with his measure even if the broader efforts foundered. But his Democratic co-sponsor, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, said she would press for the bill to be part of the comprehensive package.
Last year, technology executives had a taste of what could happen with stand-alone legislation.
In November the House passed a bill, sponsored by Representative Lamar S. Smith, Republican of Texas, that would have provided 55,000 visas for foreigners graduating from American universities with advanced degrees in STEM fields. Mr. Smith, then the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, brought considerable clout, and the tech industry rallied behind the bill.
But the legislation died in the Senate, because Democrats wanted any technology-specific measure to be part of a broader bargain that would include more visas for family members.
In pressing its case, the industry has used some vivid examples to sway lawmakers, arguing that if skilled workers cannot get visas, tech companies will simply move the jobs overseas.
Facebook was the latest to make this case. It said it had to place nearly 80 engineers in its office in Dublin in 2011 because it could not obtain even temporary work visas to employ them at the company's headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif. Those temporary visas, called H-1B visas, are capped at 65,000 a year and usually run out within a couple of months. The bill proposed by Mr. Hatch and Ms. Klobuchar would more than double that number.
Microsoft has also argued that the visa backlog takes jobs out of the United States, saying it was forced to open a development office in Vancouver.
Hundreds of thousands of foreigners, the largest share from India and China, come to American universities every year to study science and engineering. But it can take so long for them to get permanent residency that many end up returning home. Mr. Hatch said he was keen to see foreign-born graduates of American universities remain in this country rather than work for competitive firms elsewhere.
''China, India -- they would love to have these Ph.D.'s return to their countries,'' he said. ''They see the benefits. Why can't we?''
There is no dearth of jobs in Silicon Valley. Employment in San Francisco and its southern suburbs grew about 3.6 percent in 2012, twice the growth rate nationally, according to a study released last week by Joint Venture Silicon Valley, a nonpartisan research organization.
But many of those jobs are filled by foreigners. In San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties, nearly two-thirds of those employed in science- and engineering-related jobs were born abroad, compared with about one-fourth nationwide, according to the study.
Industry executives hope to employ many more.
''The issue has truly ripened,'' said Bruce Mehlman, a veteran Washington lobbyist and executive director of the Technology CEO Council. ''Levels of optimism are higher than they've been in a while.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Case, an AOL founder, has met with President Obama on easing immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVE CASE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



464 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: In an Age of Spending Cuts, Making the Case for Government

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Thirty-two years after President Ronald Reagan proclaimed that ''government is the problem'' and 17 years after President Bill Clinton offered a surrender of sorts on that issue by stating that the ''era of big government is over,'' President Obama made a case Tuesday night for closing out the politics of austerity.
In a State of the Union address largely focused on economic themes, he asserted that ''we can't just cut our way to prosperity'' and suggested that it is time for a more balanced approach, including accepting that government has a vital role to play in ensuring economic growth and a secure middle class.
''Most of us agree that a plan to reduce the deficit must be part of our agenda,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But let's be clear: deficit reduction alone is not an economic plan.'' 
In setting out how government could reach what he considers an acceptable level of fiscal stability through Medicare cuts and tax increases, Mr. Obama was doing more than trying to set the terms for the next, fast-approaching rounds in his fiscal cage match with Congressional Republicans. He was also building a broader argument that the nation needs to shift away from the focus on shrinking the government that has dominated politics for the past several years and toward a modestly more activist agenda aimed at tackling persistent inequality and the dislocating forces of a globalized, technology-driven economy.
At the same time, Mr. Obama explicitly recognized the political and policy limitations of his stance after four years of budget deficits in excess of $1 trillion and broad public unease about saddling future generations with a crippling debt burden. There was no new stimulus plan, no mission to Mars, no ambitious plan to address the hangover from the housing market crash.
''Let me repeat: Nothing I'm proposing tonight should increase our deficit by a single dime,'' he said. ''It's not a bigger government we need, but a smarter government that sets priorities and invests in broad-based growth.''
The president's nod toward bipartisanship and his willingness to put entitlement programs on the table as he works on the budget with Congress were unlikely to head off harsh Republican criticism. Even before the speech, Republicans were mocking his ''single dime'' line and said he was failing to do enough to bring down a national debt that threatens to reach dangerous levels in coming decades. In the Republican response, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida referred to ''the president's plan to grow our government.''
But by filling in the details of the philosophical framework he set out last month in his second inaugural address, Mr. Obama made clear that after his re-election in November, he does not intend to allow a relentless Republican drive for spending cuts to define his second term. And in laying out his agenda, he continued trying to define a 21st-century version of liberalism that could outlast his time in office and do for Democrats what Reagan did for Republicans.
Mr. Obama has already shown a more emboldened approach to his second term.
The use of executive authority to begin addressing global warming in a more aggressive way would be a turning point in dealing with a potentially existential problem. Winning passage of an immigration bill and even modest new gun control measures would amount to breakthroughs, largely on Democratic terms, in a polarized capital; his call to ''make what difference we can'' on gun control was one of the most impassioned of his address.
But Mr. Obama has always looked admiringly at Reagan's success in shifting the nation's ideological center of gravity in an enduring way that transcended the issues of the moment. While no fan of Reagan's policies, he credited him during the 2008 campaign with changing ''the trajectory of America in a way that, you know, Richard Nixon did not and in a way Bill Clinton did not.''
To achieve that level of influence before he leaves the White House will require not only that he enact an ambitious legislative agenda in the next year or two but also that he provide -- and sell to voters beyond his base -- a compelling alternative to the conservative mantra that nearly all problems can be traced back to excess government.
He has been honing that argument for years, asserting that America's success was built as much on common effort as an individual initiative, a theme that recurred through his 2012 re-election campaign and surfaced again on Tuesday night.
''The American people don't expect government to solve every problem,'' Mr. Obama said, but they also know that ''America moves forward only when we do so together, and that the responsibility of improving this union remains the task of us all.''
Unlike Reagan, Mr. Obama is no hero to his own party's more ideological warriors, who still see him as timid and disturbingly centrist. And in fact, if his liberalism can be characterized by any one element, it is his willingness to acknowledge and absorb into his own worldview some of the very underpinnings of the modern conservative movement.
His more extreme conservative critics notwithstanding, Mr. Obama has a healthy respect and admiration for markets and economic growth as often the most powerful forces for good. He has long put personal responsibility at the core of efforts to address socioeconomic issues.
He has adopted ideas, like the individual mandate at the heart of his health insurance overhaul, that originated among conservative thinkers. He has sought to impose greater accountability on teachers and schools for the quality of education; on Tuesday night he announced that the federal government would begin issuing scorecards for colleges assessing educational value relative to cost.
''In his somewhat incremental way, I do think Obama is redefining liberalism and relocating the center of American politics well to the left of where it's been since Ronald Reagan's time,'' said Michael Tomasky, the editor of Democracy and a leading liberal thinker.
''It's his instinct not to be an ideological warrior but to be an ideological mediator,'' Mr. Tomasky said. ''And yet, in performing those acts of ideological mediation I think he's renewed liberalism and made it more acceptable to people who might have rejected it.''
It is not clear whether Mr. Obama's effort to broaden and deepen his party's appeal will succeed in a more enduring way than a similar effort, built around similar themes of middle-class security, by the last Democratic president, Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Clinton presided over a booming economy and he balanced the budget. But Clinton-ism, at least by Mr. Obama's own assessment in 2008, proved not to be transformative. Whether Obama-ism does any better in the long run will be judged in part on his success in changing the austerity narrative along the lines he set out Tuesday night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We can't just cut our way to prosperity,'' President Obama said in his State of the Union address. Government, he said, is needed to promote economic growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); MEDICARE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HOUSING MARKET (66%); TAX LAW (66%); SPACE EXPLORATION (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



465 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
DEPARTURE UBS announced on Tuesday that Carsten Kengeter, below, the former head of UBS's investment bank, was resigning.
Mr. Kengeter has been head of the bank's noncore division, which oversees the assets that the bank is hoping to unload as it tries to exit high-risk banking activities. But when he was running the investment bank, a trader in the London office was accused of actions that led to a $2.3 billion loss for the bank. SUSANNE CRAIG 
SALE APPROVED Nexen said on Tuesday that it had received the last regulatory approval needed for its $15 billion sale to the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, a major Chinese oil company, after the Obama administration declared the deal free from national security concerns.
MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
BELTWAY INSIDER The Carlyle Group said on Tuesday that it had hired Barrett Karr, majority staff director of a House committee, to lead its United States government affairs. Ms. Karr will start at Carlyle in March and will be a principal in the global external affairs group.
''As the private industry grows and matures, thoughtful and timely dialogue with policy makers at all levels of government is increasingly important,'' David M. Rubenstein, above, Carlyle's co-founder and co-chief executive, said in a statement. ''We are fortunate to have someone of Barrett's caliber join our firm.'' WILLIAM ALDEN
REGULATORY FINE The Financial Services Authority, Britain's main financial regulator, fined UBS £9.45 million, or $14.8 million, on Tuesday for improperly selling a financial product.
The regulator said that from 2003 to 2008, nearly 2,000 customers were sold the AIG Enhanced Variable Rate Fund, a money market fund. During the financial crisis, the fund was suspended, preventing hundreds of customers from withdrawing money. nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (98%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (70%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (54%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (98%); UBS (NYSE) (98%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (98%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



466 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6294 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 2013 State of the Union Address

 BODY:
The following is the text as prepared for delivery of President Obama's State of the Union Address, as provided by the White House:
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, fellow citizens:
Fifty-one years ago, John F. Kennedy declared to this Chamber that ''the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress...It is my task,'' he said, ''to report the State of the Union -- to improve it is the task of us all.''
Tonight, thanks to the grit and determination of the American people, there is much progress to report. After a decade of grinding war, our brave men and women in uniform are coming home. After years of grueling recession, our businesses have created over six million new jobs. We buy more American cars than we have in five years, and less foreign oil than we have in twenty. Our housing market is healing, our stock market is rebounding, and consumers, patients, and homeowners enjoy stronger protections than ever before.
Together, we have cleared away the rubble of crisis, and can say with renewed confidence that the state of our union is stronger. 
But we gather here knowing that there are millions of Americans whose hard work and dedication have not yet been rewarded. Our economy is adding jobs -- but too many people still can't find full-time employment. Corporate profits have rocketed to all-time highs -- but for more than a decade, wages and incomes have barely budged.
It is our generation's task, then, to reignite the true engine of America's economic growth -- a rising, thriving middle class.
It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead, no matter where you come from, what you look like, or who you love.
It is our unfinished task to make sure that this government works on behalf of the many, and not just the few; that it encourages free enterprise, rewards individual initiative, and opens the doors of opportunity to every child across this great nation.
The American people don't expect government to solve every problem. They don't expect those of us in this chamber to agree on every issue. But they do expect us to put the nation's interests before party. They do expect us to forge reasonable compromise where we can. For they know that America moves forward only when we do so together; and that the responsibility of improving this union remains the task of us all.
Our work must begin by making some basic decisions about our budget -- decisions that will have a huge impact on the strength of our recovery.
Over the last few years, both parties have worked together to reduce the deficit by more than $2.5 trillion -- mostly through spending cuts, but also by raising tax rates on the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans. As a result, we are more than halfway towards the goal of $4 trillion in deficit reduction that economists say we need to stabilize our finances.
Now we need to finish the job. And the question is, how?
In 2011, Congress passed a law saying that if both parties couldn't agree on a plan to reach our deficit goal, about a trillion dollars' worth of budget cuts would automatically go into effect this year. These sudden, harsh, arbitrary cuts would jeopardize our military readiness. They'd devastate priorities like education, energy, and medical research. They would certainly slow our recovery, and cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs. That's why Democrats, Republicans, business leaders, and economists have already said that these cuts, known here in Washington as ''the sequester,'' are a really bad idea.
Now, some in this Congress have proposed preventing only the defense cuts by making even bigger cuts to things like education and job training; Medicare and Social Security benefits.
That idea is even worse. Yes, the biggest driver of our long-term debt is the rising cost of health care for an aging population. And those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise, our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children, and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations.
But we can't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and most powerful. We won't grow the middle class simply by shifting the cost of health care or college onto families that are already struggling, or by forcing communities to lay off more teachers, cops, and firefighters. Most Americans -- Democrats, Republicans, and Independents -- understand that we can't just cut our way to prosperity. They know that broad-based economic growth requires a balanced approach to deficit reduction, with spending cuts and revenue, and with everybody doing their fair share. And that's the approach I offer tonight.
On Medicare, I'm prepared to enact reforms that will achieve the same amount of health care savings by the beginning of the next decade as the reforms proposed by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission. Already, the Affordable Care Act is helping to slow the growth of health care costs. The reforms I'm proposing go even further. We'll reduce taxpayer subsidies to prescription drug companies and ask more from the wealthiest seniors. We'll bring down costs by changing the way our government pays for Medicare, because our medical bills shouldn't be based on the number of tests ordered or days spent in the hospital -- they should be based on the quality of care that our seniors receive. And I am open to additional reforms from both parties, so long as they don't violate the guarantee of a secure retirement. Our government shouldn't make promises we cannot keep -- but we must keep the promises we've already made.
To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target, we should do what leaders in both parties have already suggested, and save hundreds of billions of dollars by getting rid of tax loopholes and deductions for the well-off and well-connected. After all, why would we choose to make deeper cuts to education and Medicare just to protect special interest tax breaks? How is that fair? How does that promote growth?
Now is our best chance for bipartisan, comprehensive tax reform that encourages job creation and helps bring down the deficit. The American people deserve a tax code that helps small businesses spend less time filling out complicated forms, and more time expanding and hiring; a tax code that ensures billionaires with high-powered accountants can't pay a lower rate than their hard-working secretaries; a tax code that lowers incentives to move jobs overseas, and lowers tax rates for businesses and manufacturers that create jobs right here in America. That's what tax reform can deliver. That's what we can do together.
I realize that tax reform and entitlement reform won't be easy. The politics will be hard for both sides. None of us will get 100 percent of what we want. But the alternative will cost us jobs, hurt our economy, and visit hardship on millions of hardworking Americans. So let's set party interests aside, and work to pass a budget that replaces reckless cuts with smart savings and wise investments in our future. And let's do it without the brinksmanship that stresses consumers and scares off investors. The greatest nation on Earth cannot keep conducting its business by drifting from one manufactured crisis to the next. Let's agree, right here, right now, to keep the people's government open, pay our bills on time, and always uphold the full faith and credit of the United States of America. The American people have worked too hard, for too long, rebuilding from one crisis to see their elected officials cause another.
Now, most of us agree that a plan to reduce the deficit must be part of our agenda. But let's be clear: deficit reduction alone is not an economic plan. A growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs -- that must be the North Star that guides our efforts. Every day, we should ask ourselves three questions as a nation: How do we attract more jobs to our shores? How do we equip our people with the skills needed to do those jobs? And how do we make sure that hard work leads to a decent living?
A year and a half ago, I put forward an American Jobs Act that independent economists said would create more than one million new jobs. I thank the last Congress for passing some of that agenda, and I urge this Congress to pass the rest. Tonight, I'll lay out additional proposals that are fully paid for and fully consistent with the budget framework both parties agreed to just 18 months ago. Let me repeat -- nothing I'm proposing tonight should increase our deficit by a single dime. It's not a bigger government we need, but a smarter government that sets priorities and invests in broad-based growth.
Our first priority is making America a magnet for new jobs and manufacturing.
After shedding jobs for more than 10 years, our manufacturers have added about 500,000 jobs over the past three. Caterpillar is bringing jobs back from Japan. Ford is bringing jobs back from Mexico. After locating plants in other countries like China, Intel is opening its most advanced plant right here at home. And this year, Apple will start making Macs in America again.
There are things we can do, right now, to accelerate this trend. Last year, we created our first manufacturing innovation institute in Youngstown, Ohio. A once-shuttered warehouse is now a state-of-the art lab where new workers are mastering the 3D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we make almost everything. There's no reason this can't happen in other towns. So tonight, I'm announcing the launch of three more of these manufacturing hubs, where businesses will partner with the Departments of Defense and Energy to turn regions left behind by globalization into global centers of high-tech jobs. And I ask this Congress to help create a network of fifteen of these hubs and guarantee that the next revolution in manufacturing is Made in America.
If we want to make the best products, we also have to invest in the best ideas. Every dollar we invested to map the human genome returned $140 to our economy. Today, our scientists are mapping the human brain to unlock the answers to Alzheimer's; developing drugs to regenerate damaged organs; devising new material to make batteries ten times more powerful. Now is not the time to gut these job-creating investments in science and innovation. Now is the time to reach a level of research and development not seen since the height of the Space Race. And today, no area holds more promise than our investments in American energy.
After years of talking about it, we are finally poised to control our own energy future. We produce more oil at home than we have in 15 years. We have doubled the distance our cars will go on a gallon of gas, and the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar -- with tens of thousands of good, American jobs to show for it. We produce more natural gas than ever before -- and nearly everyone's energy bill is lower because of it. And over the last four years, our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our planet have actually fallen.
But for the sake of our children and our future, we must do more to combat climate change. Yes, it's true that no single event makes a trend. But the fact is, the 12 hottest years on record have all come in the last 15. Heat waves, droughts, wildfires, and floods -- all are now more frequent and intense. We can choose to believe that Superstorm Sandy, and the most severe drought in decades, and the worst wildfires some states have ever seen were all just a freak coincidence. Or we can choose to believe in the overwhelming judgment of science -- and act before it's too late.
The good news is, we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving strong economic growth. I urge this Congress to pursue a bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will. I will direct my Cabinet to come up with executive actions we can take, now and in the future, to reduce pollution, prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change, and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy.
Four years ago, other countries dominated the clean energy market and the jobs that came with it. We've begun to change that. Last year, wind energy added nearly half of all new power capacity in America. So let's generate even more. Solar energy gets cheaper by the year -- so let's drive costs down even further. As long as countries like China keep going all-in on clean energy, so must we.
In the meantime, the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater energy independence. That's why my Administration will keep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits. But I also want to work with this Congress to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even cleaner and protects our air and water.
Indeed, much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we, the public, own together. So tonight, I propose we use some of our oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good. If a non-partisan coalition of CEOs and retired generals and admirals can get behind this idea, then so can we. Let's take their advice and free our families and businesses from the painful spikes in gas prices we've put up with for far too long. I'm also issuing a new goal for America: let's cut in half the energy wasted by our homes and businesses over the next twenty years. The states with the best ideas to create jobs and lower energy bills by constructing more efficient buildings will receive federal support to help make it happen.
America's energy sector is just one part of an aging infrastructure badly in need of repair. Ask any CEO where they'd rather locate and hire: a country with deteriorating roads and bridges, or one with high-speed rail and internet; high-tech schools and self-healing power grids. The CEO of Siemens America -- a company that brought hundreds of new jobs to North Carolina -- has said that if we upgrade our infrastructure, they'll bring even more jobs. And I know that you want these job-creating projects in your districts. I've seen you all at the ribbon-cuttings.
Tonight, I propose a ''Fix-It-First'' program to put people to work as soon as possible on our most urgent repairs, like the nearly 70,000 structurally deficient bridges across the country. And to make sure taxpayers don't shoulder the whole burden, I'm also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade what our businesses need most: modern ports to move our goods; modern pipelines to withstand a storm; modern schools worthy of our children. Let's prove that there is no better place to do business than the United States of America. And let's start right away.
Part of our rebuilding effort must also involve our housing sector. Today, our housing market is finally healing from the collapse of 2007. Home prices are rising at the fastest pace in six years, home purchases are up nearly 50 percent, and construction is expanding again.
But even with mortgage rates near a 50-year low, too many families with solid credit who want to buy a home are being rejected. Too many families who have never missed a payment and want to refinance are being told no. That's holding our entire economy back, and we need to fix it. Right now, there's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $3,000 a year by refinancing at today's rates. Democrats and Republicans have supported it before. What are we waiting for? Take a vote, and send me that bill. Right now, overlapping regulations keep responsible young families from buying their first home. What's holding us back? Let's streamline the process, and help our economy grow.
These initiatives in manufacturing, energy, infrastructure, and housing will help entrepreneurs and small business owners expand and create new jobs. But none of it will matter unless we also equip our citizens with the skills and training to fill those jobs. And that has to start at the earliest possible age.
Study after study shows that the sooner a child begins learning, the better he or she does down the road. But today, fewer than 3 in 10 four year-olds are enrolled in a high-quality preschool program. Most middle-class parents can't afford a few hundred bucks a week for private preschool. And for poor kids who need help the most, this lack of access to preschool education can shadow them for the rest of their lives.
Tonight, I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available to every child in America. Every dollar we invest in high-quality early education can save more than seven dollars later on -- by boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime. In states that make it a priority to educate our youngest children, like Georgia or Oklahoma, studies show students grow up more likely to read and do math at grade level, graduate high school, hold a job, and form more stable families of their own. So let's do what works, and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind. Let's give our kids that chance.
Let's also make sure that a high school diploma puts our kids on a path to a good job. Right now, countries like Germany focus on graduating their high school students with the equivalent of a technical degree from one of our community colleges, so that they're ready for a job. At schools like P-Tech in Brooklyn, a collaboration between New York Public Schools, the City University of New York, and IBM, students will graduate with a high school diploma and an associate degree in computers or engineering.
We need to give every American student opportunities like this. Four years ago, we started Race to the Top -- a competition that convinced almost every state to develop smarter curricula and higher standards, for about 1 percent of what we spend on education each year. Tonight, I'm announcing a new challenge to redesign America's high schools so they better equip graduates for the demands of a high-tech economy. We'll reward schools that develop new partnerships with colleges and employers, and create classes that focus on science, technology, engineering, and math -- the skills today's employers are looking for to fill jobs right now and in the future.
Now, even with better high schools, most young people will need some higher education. It's a simple fact: the more education you have, the more likely you are to have a job and work your way into the middle class. But today, skyrocketing costs price way too many young people out of a higher education, or saddle them with unsustainable debt.
Through tax credits, grants, and better loans, we have made college more affordable for millions of students and families over the last few years. But taxpayers cannot continue to subsidize the soaring cost of higher education. Colleges must do their part to keep costs down, and it's our job to make sure they do. Tonight, I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act, so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid. And tomorrow, my Administration will release a new ''College Scorecard'' that parents and students can use to compare schools based on a simple criteria: where you can get the most bang for your educational buck.
To grow our middle class, our citizens must have access to the education and training that today's jobs require. But we also have to make sure that America remains a place where everyone who's willing to work hard has the chance to get ahead.
Our economy is stronger when we harness the talents and ingenuity of striving, hopeful immigrants. And right now, leaders from the business, labor, law enforcement, and faith communities all agree that the time has come to pass comprehensive immigration reform.
Real reform means strong border security, and we can build on the progress my Administration has already made -- putting more boots on the southern border than at any time in our history, and reducing illegal crossings to their lowest levels in 40 years.
Real reform means establishing a responsible pathway to earned citizenship -- a path that includes passing a background check, paying taxes and a meaningful penalty, learning English, and going to the back of the line behind the folks trying to come here legally.
And real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods, reduce bureaucracy, and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy.
In other words, we know what needs to be done. As we speak, bipartisan groups in both chambers are working diligently to draft a bill, and I applaud their efforts. Now let's get this done. Send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months, and I will sign it right away.
But we can't stop there. We know our economy is stronger when our wives, mothers, and daughters can live their lives free from discrimination in the workplace, and free from the fear of domestic violence. Today, the Senate passed the Violence Against Women Act that Joe Biden originally wrote almost 20 years ago. I urge the House to do the same. And I ask this Congress to declare that women should earn a living equal to their efforts, and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year.
We know our economy is stronger when we reward an honest day's work with honest wages. But today, a full-time worker making the minimum wage earns $14,500 a year. Even with the tax relief we've put in place, a family with two kids that earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line. That's wrong. That's why, since the last time this Congress raised the minimum wage, nineteen states have chosen to bump theirs even higher.
Tonight, let's declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth, no one who works full-time should have to live in poverty, and raise the federal minimum wage to $9.00 an hour. This single step would raise the incomes of millions of working families. It could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank; rent or eviction; scraping by or finally getting ahead. For businesses across the country, it would mean customers with more money in their pockets. In fact, working folks shouldn't have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go up while CEO pay has never been higher. So here's an idea that Governor Romney and I actually agreed on last year: let's tie the minimum wage to the cost of living, so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on.
Tonight, let's also recognize that there are communities in this country where no matter how hard you work, it's virtually impossible to get ahead. Factory towns decimated from years of plants packing up. Inescapable pockets of poverty, urban and rural, where young adults are still fighting for their first job. America is not a place where chance of birth or circumstance should decide our destiny. And that is why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all who are willing to climb them.
Let's offer incentives to companies that hire Americans who've got what it takes to fill that job opening, but have been out of work so long that no one will give them a chance. Let's put people back to work rebuilding vacant homes in run-down neighborhoods. And this year, my Administration will begin to partner with 20 of the hardest-hit towns in America to get these communities back on their feet. We'll work with local leaders to target resources at public safety, education, and housing. We'll give new tax credits to businesses that hire and invest. And we'll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples, and doing more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man isn't the ability to conceive a child; it's having the courage to raise one.
Stronger families. Stronger communities. A stronger America. It is this kind of prosperity -- broad, shared, and built on a thriving middle class -- that has always been the source of our progress at home. It is also the foundation of our power and influence throughout the world.
Tonight, we stand united in saluting the troops and civilians who sacrifice every day to protect us. Because of them, we can say with confidence that America will complete its mission in Afghanistan, and achieve our objective of defeating the core of al Qaeda. Already, we have brought home 33,000 of our brave servicemen and women. This spring, our forces will move into a support role, while Afghan security forces take the lead. Tonight, I can announce that over the next year, another 34,000 American troops will come home from Afghanistan. This drawdown will continue. And by the end of next year, our war in Afghanistan will be over.
Beyond 2014, America's commitment to a unified and sovereign Afghanistan will endure, but the nature of our commitment will change. We are negotiating an agreement with the Afghan government that focuses on two missions: training and equipping Afghan forces so that the country does not again slip into chaos, and counter-terrorism efforts that allow us to pursue the remnants of al Qaeda and their affiliates.
Today, the organization that attacked us on 9/11 is a shadow of its former self. Different al Qaeda affiliates and extremist groups have emerged -- from the Arabian Peninsula to Africa. The threat these groups pose is evolving. But to meet this threat, we don't need to send tens of thousands of our sons and daughters abroad, or occupy other nations. Instead, we will need to help countries like Yemen, Libya, and Somalia provide for their own security, and help allies who take the fight to terrorists, as we have in Mali. And, where necessary, through a range of capabilities, we will continue to take direct action against those terrorists who pose the gravest threat to Americans.
As we do, we must enlist our values in the fight. That is why my Administration has worked tirelessly to forge a durable legal and policy framework to guide our counterterrorism operations. Throughout, we have kept Congress fully informed of our efforts. I recognize that in our democracy, no one should just take my word that we're doing things the right way. So, in the months ahead, I will continue to engage with Congress to ensure not only that our targeting, detention, and prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and system of checks and balances, but that our efforts are even more transparent to the American people and to the world.
Of course, our challenges don't end with al Qaeda. America will continue to lead the effort to prevent the spread of the world's most dangerous weapons. The regime in North Korea must know that they will only achieve security and prosperity by meeting their international obligations. Provocations of the sort we saw last night will only isolate them further, as we stand by our allies, strengthen our own missile defense, and lead the world in taking firm action in response to these threats.
Likewise, the leaders of Iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution, because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations, and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon. At the same time, we will engage Russia to seek further reductions in our nuclear arsenals, and continue leading the global effort to secure nuclear materials that could fall into the wrong hands -- because our ability to influence others depends on our willingness to lead.
America must also face the rapidly growing threat from cyber-attacks. We know hackers steal people's identities and infiltrate private e-mail. We know foreign countries and companies swipe our corporate secrets. Now our enemies are also seeking the ability to sabotage our power grid, our financial institutions, and our air traffic control systems. We cannot look back years from now and wonder why we did nothing in the face of real threats to our security and our economy.
That's why, earlier today, I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing, and developing standards to protect our national security, our jobs, and our privacy. Now, Congress must act as well, by passing legislation to give our government a greater capacity to secure our networks and deter attacks.
Even as we protect our people, we should remember that today's world presents not only dangers, but opportunities. To boost American exports, support American jobs, and level the playing field in the growing markets of Asia, we intend to complete negotiations on a Trans-Pacific Partnership. And tonight, I am announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union -- because trade that is free and fair across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs.
We also know that progress in the most impoverished parts of our world enriches us all. In many places, people live on little more than a dollar a day. So the United States will join with our allies to eradicate such extreme poverty in the next two decades: by connecting more people to the global economy and empowering women; by giving our young and brightest minds new opportunities to serve and helping communities to feed, power, and educate themselves; by saving the world's children from preventable deaths; and by realizing the promise of an AIDS-free generation.
Above all, America must remain a beacon to all who seek freedom during this period of historic change. I saw the power of hope last year in Rangoon -- when Aung San Suu Kyi welcomed an American President into the home where she had been imprisoned for years; when thousands of Burmese lined the streets, waving American flags, including a man who said, ''There is justice and law in the United States. I want our country to be like that.''
In defense of freedom, we will remain the anchor of strong alliances from the Americas to Africa; from Europe to Asia. In the Middle East, we will stand with citizens as they demand their universal rights, and support stable transitions to democracy. The process will be messy, and we cannot presume to dictate the course of change in countries like Egypt; but we can -- and will -- insist on respect for the fundamental rights of all people. We will keep the pressure on a Syrian regime that has murdered its own people, and support opposition leaders that respect the rights of every Syrian. And we will stand steadfast with Israel in pursuit of security and a lasting peace. These are the messages I will deliver when I travel to the Middle East next month.
All this work depends on the courage and sacrifice of those who serve in dangerous places at great personal risk -- our diplomats, our intelligence officers, and the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. As long as I'm Commander-in-Chief, we will do whatever we must to protect those who serve their country abroad, and we will maintain the best military in the world. We will invest in new capabilities, even as we reduce waste and wartime spending. We will ensure equal treatment for all service members, and equal benefits for their families -- gay and straight. We will draw upon the courage and skills of our sisters and daughters, because women have proven under fire that they are ready for combat. We will keep faith with our veterans -- investing in world-class care, including mental health care, for our wounded warriors; supporting our military families; and giving our veterans the benefits, education, and job opportunities they have earned. And I want to thank my wife Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden for their continued dedication to serving our military families as well as they serve us.
But defending our freedom is not the job of our military alone. We must all do our part to make sure our God-given rights are protected here at home. That includes our most fundamental right as citizens: the right to vote. When any Americans -- no matter where they live or what their party -- are denied that right simply because they can't wait for five, six, seven hours just to cast their ballot, we are betraying our ideals. That's why, tonight, I'm announcing a non-partisan commission to improve the voting experience in America. And I'm asking two long-time experts in the field, who've recently served as the top attorneys for my campaign and for Governor Romney's campaign, to lead it. We can fix this, and we will. The American people demand it. And so does our democracy.
Of course, what I've said tonight matters little if we don't come together to protect our most precious resource -- our children.
It has been two months since Newtown. I know this is not the first time this country has debated how to reduce gun violence. But this time is different. Overwhelming majorities of Americans -- Americans who believe in the 2nd Amendment -- have come together around commonsense reform -- like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun. Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals. Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets, because they are tired of being outgunned.
Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress. If you want to vote no, that's your choice. But these proposals deserve a vote. Because in the two months since Newtown, more than a thousand birthdays, graduations, and anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun.
One of those we lost was a young girl named Hadiya Pendleton. She was 15 years old. She loved Fig Newtons and lip gloss. She was a majorette. She was so good to her friends, they all thought they were her best friend. Just three weeks ago, she was here, in Washington, with her classmates, performing for her country at my inauguration. And a week later, she was shot and killed in a Chicago park after school, just a mile away from my house.
Hadiya's parents, Nate and Cleo, are in this chamber tonight, along with more than two dozen Americans whose lives have been torn apart by gun violence. They deserve a vote.
Gabby Giffords deserves a vote.
The families of Newtown deserve a vote.
The families of Aurora deserve a vote.
The families of Oak Creek, and Tucson, and Blacksburg, and the countless other communities ripped open by gun violence -- they deserve a simple vote.
Our actions will not prevent every senseless act of violence in this country. Indeed, no laws, no initiatives, no administrative acts will perfectly solve all the challenges I've outlined tonight. But we were never sent here to be perfect. We were sent here to make what difference we can, to secure this nation, expand opportunity, and uphold our ideals through the hard, often frustrating, but absolutely necessary work of self-government.
We were sent here to look out for our fellow Americans the same way they look out for one another, every single day, usually without fanfare, all across this country. We should follow their example.
We should follow the example of a New York City nurse named Menchu Sanchez. When Hurricane Sandy plunged her hospital into darkness, her thoughts were not with how her own home was faring -- they were with the twenty precious newborns in her care and the rescue plan she devised that kept them all safe.
We should follow the example of a North Miami woman named Desiline Victor. When she arrived at her polling place, she was told the wait to vote might be six hours. And as time ticked by, her concern was not with her tired body or aching feet, but whether folks like her would get to have their say. Hour after hour, a throng of people stayed in line in support of her. Because Desiline is 102 years old. And they erupted in cheers when she finally put on a sticker that read ''I Voted.''
We should follow the example of a police officer named Brian Murphy. When a gunman opened fire on a Sikh temple in Wisconsin, and Brian was the first to arrive, he did not consider his own safety. He fought back until help arrived, and ordered his fellow officers to protect the safety of the Americans worshiping inside -- even as he lay bleeding from twelve bullet wounds.
When asked how he did that, Brian said, ''That's just the way we're made.''
That's just the way we're made.
We may do different jobs, and wear different uniforms, and hold different views than the person beside us. But as Americans, we all share the same proud title:
We are citizens. It's a word that doesn't just describe our nationality or legal status. It describes the way we're made. It describes what we believe. It captures the enduring idea that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another and to future generations; that our rights are wrapped up in the rights of others; and that well into our third century as a nation, it remains the task of us all, as citizens of these United States, to be the authors of the next great chapter in our American story.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); ARMED FORCES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



467 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2475 words

HEADLINE: Rubio's G.O.P. Response to the State of the Union Address

 BODY:
The following is the text as prepared for delivery of Senator Marco Rubio's Republican response to the State of the Union address:
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO: Good evening. I'm Marco Rubio. I'm blessed to represent Florida in the United States Senate. Let me begin by congratulating President Obama on the start of his second term. Tonight, I have the honor of responding to his State of the Union address on behalf of my fellow Republicans. And I am especially honored to be addressing our brave men and women serving in the armed forces and in diplomatic posts around the world. You may be thousands of miles away, but you are always in our prayers.
The State of the Union address is always a reminder of how unique America is. For much of human history, most people were trapped in stagnant societies, where a tiny minority always stayed on top, and no one else even had a chance.
But America is exceptional because we believe that every life, at every stage, is precious, and that everyone everywhere has a God-given right to go as far as their talents and hard work will take them. 
Like most Americans, for me this ideal is personal. My parents immigrated here in pursuit of the opportunity to improve their life and give their children the chance at an even better one. They made it to the middle class, my dad working as a bartender and my mother as a cashier and a maid. I didn't inherit any money from them. But I inherited something far better -- the real opportunity to accomplish my dreams.
This opportunity -- to make it to the middle class or beyond no matter where you start out in life -- it isn't bestowed on us from Washington. It comes from a vibrant free economy where people can risk their own money to open a business. And when they succeed, they hire more people, who in turn invest or spend the money they make, helping others start a business and create jobs.
Presidents in both parties -- from John F. Kennedy to Ronald Reagan -- have known that our free enterprise economy is the source of our middle class prosperity.
But President Obama? He believes it's the cause of our problems. That the economic downturn happened because our government didn't tax enough, spend enough and control enough. And, therefore, as you heard tonight, his solution to virtually every problem we face is for Washington to tax more, borrow more and spend more.
This idea -- that our problems were caused by a government that was too small -- it's just not true. In fact, a major cause of our recent downturn was a housing crisis created by reckless government policies.
And the idea that more taxes and more government spending is the best way to help hardworking middle class taxpayers -- that's an old idea that's failed every time it's been tried.
More government isn't going to help you get ahead. It's going to hold you back.
More government isn't going to create more opportunities. It's going to limit them.
And more government isn't going to inspire new ideas, new businesses and new private sector jobs. It's going to create uncertainty.
Because more government breeds complicated rules and laws that a small business can't afford to follow.
Because more government raises taxes on employers who then pass the costs on to their employees through fewer hours, lower pay and even layoffs.
And because many government programs that claim to help the middle class, often end up hurting them instead.
For example, Obamacare was supposed to help middle class Americans afford health insurance. But now, some people are losing the health insurance they were happy with. And because Obamacare created expensive requirements for companies with more than 50 employees, now many of these businesses aren't hiring. Not only that; they're being forced to lay people off and switch from full-time employees to part-time workers.
Now does this mean there's no role for government? Of course not. It plays a crucial part in keeping us safe, enforcing rules, and providing some security against the risks of modern life. But government's role is wisely limited by the Constitution. And it can't play its essential role when it ignores those limits.
There are valid reasons to be concerned about the President's plan to grow our government. But any time anyone opposes the President's agenda, he and his allies usually respond by falsely attacking their motives.
When we point out that no matter how many job-killing laws we pass, our government can't control the weather -- he accuses us of wanting dirty water and dirty air.
When we suggest we strengthen our safety net programs by giving states more flexibility to manage them -- he accuses us of wanting to leave the elderly and disabled to fend for themselves.
And tonight, he even criticized us for refusing to raise taxes to delay military cuts -- cuts that were his idea in the first place.
But his favorite attack of all is that those who don't agree with him -- they only care about rich people.
Mr. President, I still live in the same working class neighborhood I grew up in. My neighbors aren't millionaires. They're retirees who depend on Social Security and Medicare. They're workers who have to get up early tomorrow morning and go to work to pay the bills. They're immigrants, who came here because they were stuck in poverty in countries where the government dominated the economy.
The tax increases and the deficit spending you propose will hurt middle class families. It will cost them their raises. It will cost them their benefits. It may even cost some of them their jobs.
And it will hurt seniors because it does nothing to save Medicare and Social Security.
So Mr. President, I don't oppose your plans because I want to protect the rich. I oppose your plans because I want to protect my neighbors.
Hard-working middle class Americans who don't need us to come up with a plan to grow the government. They want a plan to grow the middle class.
Economic growth is the best way to help the middle class. Unfortunately, our economy actually shrank during the last three months of 2012.
But if we can get the economy to grow at just 4 percent a year, it would create millions of middle class jobs. And it could reduce our deficits by almost $4 trillion dollars over the next decade.
Tax increases can't do this. Raising taxes won't create private sector jobs. And there's no realistic tax increase that could lower our deficits by almost $4 trillion. That's why I hope the President will abandon his obsession with raising taxes and instead work with us to achieve real growth in our economy.
One of the best ways to encourage growth is through our energy industry. Of course solar and wind energy should be a part of our energy portfolio. But God also blessed America with abundant coal, oil and natural gas. Instead of wasting more taxpayer money on so-called ''clean energy'' companies like Solyndra, let's open up more federal lands for safe and responsible exploration. And let's reform our energy regulations so that they're reasonable and based on common sense. If we can grow our energy industry, it will make us energy independent, it will create middle class jobs and it will help bring manufacturing back from places like China.
Simplifying our tax code will also help the middle class, because it will make it easier for small businesses to hire and grow.
And we agree with the President that we should lower our corporate tax rate, which is one of the highest in the world, so that companies will start bringing their money and their jobs back here from overseas.
We can also help our economy grow if we have a legal immigration system that allows us to attract and assimilate the world's best and brightest. We need a responsible, permanent solution to the problem of those who are here illegally. But first, we must follow through on the broken promises of the past to secure our borders and enforce our laws.
Helping the middle class grow will also require an education system that gives people the skills today's jobs entail and the knowledge that tomorrow's world will require.
We need to incentivize local school districts to offer more advanced placement courses and more vocational and career training.
We need to give all parents, especially the parents of children with special needs, the opportunity to send their children to the school of their choice.
And because tuition costs have grown so fast, we need to change the way we pay for higher education.
I believe in federal financial aid. I couldn't have gone to college without it. But it's not just about spending more money on these programs; it's also about strengthening and modernizing them.
A 21st century workforce should not be forced to accept 20th century education solutions. Today's students aren't only 18 year olds. They're returning veterans. They're single parents who decide to get the education they need to earn a decent wage. And they're workers who have lost jobs that are never coming back and need to be retrained.
We need student aid that does not discriminate against programs that non-traditional students rely on -- like online courses, or degree programs that give you credit for work experience.
When I finished school, I owed over 100,000 dollars in student loans, a debt I paid off just a few months ago. Today, many graduates face massive student debt. We must give students more information on the costs and benefits of the student loans they're taking out.
All these measures are key to helping the economy grow. But we won't be able to sustain a vibrant middle class unless we solve our debt problem.
Every dollar our government borrows is money that isn't being invested to create jobs. And the uncertainty created by the debt is one reason why many businesses aren't hiring.
The President loves to blame the debt on President Bush. But President Obama created more debt in four years than his predecessor did in eight.
The real cause of our debt is that our government has been spending 1 trillion dollars more than it takes in every year. That's why we need a balanced budget amendment.
The biggest obstacles to balancing the budget are programs where spending is already locked in. One of these programs, Medicare, is especially important to me. It provided my father the care he needed to battle cancer and ultimately die with dignity. And it pays for the care my mother receives now.
I would never support any changes to Medicare that would hurt seniors like my mother. But anyone who is in favor of leaving Medicare exactly the way it is right now, is in favor of bankrupting it.
Republicans have offered a detailed and credible plan that helps save Medicare without hurting today's retirees. Instead of playing politics with Medicare, when is the President going to offer his plan to save it? Tonight would have been a good time for him to do it.
Of course, we face other challenges as well. We were all heart broken by the recent tragedy in Connecticut. We must effectively deal with the rise of violence in our country. But unconstitutionally undermining the 2nd Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans is not the way to do it.
On foreign policy, America continues to be indispensable to the goal of global liberty, prosperity and safeguarding human rights. The world is a better place when America is the strongest nation on earth. But we can't remain powerful if we don't have an economy that can afford it.
In the short time I've been here in Washington, nothing has frustrated me more than false choices like the ones the President laid out tonight.
The choice isn't just between big government or big business. What we need is an accountable, efficient and effective government that allows small and new businesses to create middle class jobs.
We don't have to raise taxes to avoid the President's devastating cuts to our military. Republicans have passed a plan that replaces these cuts with responsible spending reforms.
In order to balance our budget, the choice doesn't have to be either higher taxes or dramatic benefit cuts for those in need. Instead we should grow our economy so that we create new taxpayers, not new taxes, and so our government can afford to help those who truly cannot help themselves.
And the truth is every problem can't be solved by government. Many are caused by the moral breakdown in our society. And the answers to those challenges lie primarily in our families and our faiths, not our politicians.
Despite our differences, I know that both Republicans and Democrats love America. I pray we can come together to solve our problems, because the choices before us could not be more important.
If we can get our economy healthy again, our children will be the most prosperous Americans ever.
And if we do not, we will forever be known as the generation responsible for America's decline.
At a time when one showdown after another ends in short-term deals that do little or nothing about our real problems, some are starting to believe that our government leaders just can't or won't make the right choices anymore.
But our strength has never come from the White House or the Capitol. It's always come from our people. A people united by the American idea that, if you have a dream and you are willing to work hard, nothing should be impossible.
Americans have always celebrated and been inspired by those who succeed. But it's the dreams of those who are still trying to make it that sets our nation apart.
Tonight, all across this land, parents will hold their newborn children in their arms for the first time. For many of these parents, life has not gone the way they had planned.
Maybe they were born into circumstances they've found difficult to escape. Maybe they've made some mistakes along the way. Maybe they're young mothers, all alone, the father of their child long gone.
But tonight, when they look into the eyes of their child for the first time, their lives will change forever. Because in those eyes, they will see what my parents saw in me, and what your parents saw in you. They will see all the hopes and dreams they once had for themselves.
This dream -- of a better life for their children -- it's the hope of parents everywhere. Politicians here and throughout the world have long promised that more government can make those dreams come true.
But we Americans have always known better. From our earliest days, we embraced economic liberty instead. And because we did, America remains one of the few places on earth where dreams like these even have a chance.
Each time our nation has faced great challenges, what has kept us together was our shared hope for a better life.
Now, let that hope bring us together again. To solve the challenges of our time and write the next chapter in the amazing story of the greatest nation man has ever known.
Thank you for listening. May God bless all of you. May God bless our President. And may God continue to bless the United States of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



468 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Puts On a Calmer Face, Except for One Wild-Eyed Rocker

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Ashley Parker and Jeremy Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the wake of their electoral drubbing in November, Republicans sought an image reboot at President Obama's State of the Union address, a new face that would be both more positive and less strident, youthful and multicultural but also quietly constructive and respectful.
Then there was Ted Nugent, the 64-year-old rocker who once told the president to ''suck on my machine gun.'' 
Mr. Nugent, the gun-rights brawler, sat stone-faced high up in the House spectators' gallery as the president pressed an agenda that went far beyond gun control. Invited to watch as the guest of another firebrand, Steve Stockman, a Republican representative from Texas, his crossed arms and stern visage seemed to capture the conflict still lurking within the Republican Party as its leaders look to expand their appeal.
There were no shouts of ''you lie!'' Tuesday night, no overt moments of disrespect beyond the usual partisan responses to policy. But in a House chamber filled conspicuously with the victims of gun violence and family members still grieving for lost loved ones, Mr. Nugent seemed like a provocation, a saber-toothed tiger invited to a garden party.
''I tend not to engage in inflammatory displays like that,'' said Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a Republican moderate who invited a young constituent he had nominated for the United States Naval Academy.
Such dissonant notes reverberated throughout the marble halls of the Capitol all day Tuesday, from the office suite of the House speaker to the floor of the Senate to a rancorous roll call for Chuck Hagel at the usually decorous Senate Armed Services Committee. It reflected the very real struggle within the party between Republicans who believe tangible adjustments are needed, in policy and tone, and an equally confident core that maintains the party's problem is that it has not been conservative enough.
''He'll continue this demagoguery,'' Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, said of the president after the speech. ''He'll still waste everybody's time on gun control -- it's not going to pass -- and distract Americans from what we really need to do.''
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida gave the official Republican response, taking the unprecedented step for the party of speaking in English and in Spanish to reach out to Latino voters who forsook the party in November.
''Despite our differences, I know that both Republicans and Democrats love America,'' he said, in an address that spoke passionately of his own immigrant background and economic rise. ''I pray we can come together to solve our problems, because the choices before us could not be more important.''
The lasting image of Mr. Rubio's address may not have been his youthful face and stately backdrop but an odd lurch off camera mid-speech for a quick drink of water. He recovered from the glitch, but it marred an otherwise smooth performance.
But before Mr. Rubio spoke from the well-appointed Capitol cloisters of House Speaker John A. Boehner, the speaker grabbed attention when he told reporters that he would like ''a little foreplay first'' from the president before embracing a path to citizenship for undocumented workers in an immigration bill.
Fellow Republican senators hailed Mr. Rubio, their new spokesman and a 2016 presidential hopeful, in terms that spoke to broader hopes for the party: youth, vitality, thoughtfulness and an affirmative agenda that was not just oppositional.
''Obviously, we know we've got to be for things,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. Still, Mr. Rubio voted Tuesday against reauthorizing a more muscular Violence Against Women Act, an echo of his own roots on the right flank of his party. He was one of only 22 senators to oppose the bill, which 23 Republicans and 55 Democrats endorsed.
The Republicans sent out another mixed message earlier in the day when Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, the House Republican Conference chairwoman, launched the party's first official Spanish-language Twitter account, @GOPespanol. But last week, when House Republicans tried to begin a broader ''G.O.P. en Español'' program, which was to distribute Republican reactions to the State of the Union in Spanish, the most vociferous anti-illegal immigration voices in the House objected.
''There's a conflicting message that comes out from the Republicans if we want to recognize the unifying power of English, and meanwhile, we send out communications in multiple languages,'' Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, told National Journal. Official business and documents, he said, need to be in English.
The Tea Party's response to the State of the Union address fell to Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, no shrinking violet but a softer voice than last year's respondent, Herman Cain, or the inaugural choice in 2011, Representative Michele Bachmann, who looked away from the camera as she denounced the ''16,500 I.R.S. agents in charge of policing President Obama's health care bill'' and hailed ''the early days of a history-making turn'' in American governance.
Meanwhile, in the Senate Armed Services Committee -- a panel that for decades has been run with bipartisan decorum -- Senator Ted Cruz, a freshman Republican from Texas, all but called President Obama's nominee for defense secretary, Mr. Hagel, an extremist with ties to shady organizations.
''I will point out that right now this committee knows absolutely nothing about the personal compensation Chuck Hagel received in 2008 and 2009 or 2010,'' Mr. Cruz said. ''We do not know, for example, if he received compensation for giving paid speeches at extreme or radical groups.''
That yielded a stinging rebuke from the usually soft-spoken Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, who said Mr. Cruz, a Tea Party favorite, had gone ''over the line'' and ''impugned the patriotism of the nominee.''
Republicans still held out hope that the lasting image of the night would not be such backbiting but a new tone of cooperation. ''Good people will show that we're a governing party,'' said Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican. ''You win elections because people believe you can make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ted Nugent, arms folded, seemed unimpressed by what the president had to say on Tuesday night. A Texas congressman had invited Mr. Nugent to attend the State of the Union address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); NAVIES (64%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (54%)

PERSON: STEVE STOCKMAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); CHUCK HAGEL (73%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); RON JOHNSON (58%); CHARLES W DENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



469 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Comcast's Prime-Time Deal

BYLINE: JEFFREY GOLDFARB


HIGHLIGHT: Comcast is valuing NBCUniversal at about nine times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, assuming growth continues at a similar pace, roughly where Barclays analysts peg Disney. 

 BODY:
Comcast has smartly ad-libbed on an already winning script. Back in 2009, the cable operator engineered a complex, multistep deal with General Electric to buy NBCUniversal. 
It has now smoothly accelerated and slightly rejiggered the acquisition of the 49 percent of the TV and film group it does not own for $16.7 billion. With the financial side of things now sorted out, Comcast's boss, Brian L. Roberts, must prove he's the right owner. 
The transaction cements the chief executive's media mogul ambitions. Mr. Roberts arranged to buy the owner of Universal Studios and CNBC after a failed hostile bid for Walt Disney. Comcast valued the original 51 percent it acquired at $13.8 billion, partly by contributing its own channels, accepting the obligation to buy half of G.E.'s remaining stake in 2014.
Instead - perhaps betraying a touch of impatience - Comcast and G.E. have improvised. The newly negotiated purchase cost looks close to what the original mechanism would have produced, according to a Breakingviews calculator from 2009 adjusted for the earlier denouement and slightly faster-than-expected growth in NBCUniversal's operating cash flow. 
Comcast is valuing the media enterprise at about nine times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, assuming growth continues at a similar pace, roughly where Barclays analysts peg Disney.
NBCUniversal's cash flow won't finance the deal as it might have done had Comcast waited longer, but the $4 billion-plus of cash it had accumulated as of Sept. 30 will help. So too will the low interest rates at which Comcast can borrow, not to mention $2.7 billion of financing help from G.E., which can now hasten its own restructuring plans.
In total, Mr. Roberts is draining essentially all the $11 billion of cash on Comcast's year-end books to pay for the deal, and it now falls to him to demonstrate his media credentials. 
Early returns are good. The NBC broadcast network topped American ratings last fall for the first time in a decade. Despite the pricey cost of broadcasting the London Olympics, the company did not lose money on the deal as expected. And Harry Potter has worked his magic at NBCUniversal's theme parks. Comcast shares are up over 70 percent - better than rivals and the broader stock market - since the first part of the deal closed in January 2011.
Even so, it is not clear that NBCUniversal's entertainment networks like USA will command higher fees for cable carriage the way sports-intensive channels have. Advertising revenue remains highly unpredictable, as does the film business. And Comcast's cable peers in recent years have jettisoned media operations after shareholders fretted that value got lost within a conglomerate structure. Mr. Roberts may be putting away his engineering hat for now, but it could come in handy again some day.
 Jeffrey Goldfarb is an assistant editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visitbreakingviews.com.

        
Comcast to Buy Rest of NBCUniversal for $16.7 Billion
        
The NBC Sale (the '30 Rock' Version)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EBITDA (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); FILM (72%); OLYMPICS (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Cable Television; Comcast Corporation; General Electric Company; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; NBC Universal; television; Television; Comcast Corporation|CMCSA|NASDAQ; General Electric Company|GE|NYSE; Breakingviews; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Comcast Corporation; General Electric Company; NBC Universal

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); DIS (NYSE) (57%) Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



470 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: Avoiding the Curse of the Oil-Rich Nations

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: When a nation is dependent on the production of oil, corruption and conflict often follow. But there are ways to put a country's oil revenues to good use. 

 BODY:
Every nation wants to strike oil, and after it happens, nearly every nation is worse off for it. It may seem paradoxical, but finding a hole in the ground that spouts money can be one of the worst things that can happen to a country.
Oil-dependent countries, writes the Stanford professor Terry Karl, "eventually become among the most economically troubled, the most authoritarian, and the most conflict-ridden in the world." This phenomenon is called the resource curse.
Oil is the world's most capital-intensive industry, so it creates few jobs. Worse, it obliterates jobs all across the economy. The export of oil inflates the exchange rate, so whatever else a country manufactures is less competitive abroad. 
Oil concentrates a nation's economy around the state. Instead of putting resources into making things and selling them, ambitious people spend their time currying favor or simply bribing the politicians and government officials who control oil money. That concentration of wealth, along with the opacity with which oil can be managed, creates corruption.

Petro-dependence also leads to conflict. The conventional wisdom used to be that grievances were the cause of conflict, but that ended after the economists Paul Collier and Anke Hoeffler found in a series of ground-breaking studies that more important was the opportunity to grab oil or other commodity resources. They showed that if a third or more of a country's G.D.P. came from the export of primary commodities, the likelihood of conflict was 22 percent. Similar countries that did not export commodities had a 1 percent chance.
If a government can finance itself through the profits on oil, it needn't collect taxes. Let me suggest that this is not a good thing. Taxes create accountability - citizens want to know how the government is spending their money. Substituting oil revenues decouples government from the people. The list of the world's worst-governed countries today features many that are dependent on the production of oil: Nigeria, Angola, Chad, Venezuela, Libya, Equatorial Guinea. 
The big exception is Norway, which had the foresight to become wealthy and democratic before striking oil. As almost all the world's untapped oil reserves now lie in the developing world, Norway is not likely to have much company.
Do these countries have a way out of the resource curse?
Todd Moss, a senior fellow and vice president for programs at the Washington-based Center for Global Development, believes they might. He points to an unlikely source of inspiration: Alaska. The state of Alaska is bound by law to put at least a quarter of its revenues from oil into the Alaska Permanent Fund, which was established in 1976. The money is invested and each year, every resident of Alaska gets a share of the dividends; for consistency, the amount is calculated using an average of the fund's earnings over the past five years. The dividend check is considered taxable income. Last year, the check was for $878. In 2008, the high point, every Alaskan got $2,069.
These payments stimulate the economy and reduce income disparities. They have contributed (pdf, p. 12) to a large reduction in poverty in Alaskan Natives, the state's poorest group.
But the fund has other benefits. "I wanted to transform oil wells pumping oil for a finite period into money wells pumping money for infinity," wrote Jay Hammond, Alaska's governor at the time. Governments often try to save for lean years by paying a portion of oil revenues into a walled-off, legally untouchable fund. Unfortunately, temptation is often more powerful than the law. Venezuela's oil fund, for example, has been raided (pdf, p 16) by Hugo Chavez, dropping from $6 billion to $3 million in the last decade - during a time of record-high oil prices.
The dividend, by contrast, protects the Alaska Permanent Fund. Hammond's achievement was to "protect against its invasion by politicians by creating a militant ring of dividend recipients who would resist any such usage if it affected their dividends." (See here for a quirky summary of criticisms of the fund. )
Scott Goldsmith, an economist at the University of Alaska, writes that the dividend has some unanticipated consequences. "Some would compare this generation of Alaskans to trust fund babies, because there are no personal taxes and receipt of the dividend carries no public responsibilities, the two together undermine the sense of community that comes from the need to collectively choose and fund public services. They also foster a disconnection between government and residents, leading to a deterioration of the quality of government." 
Alaska, of course, has very little in common with Venezuela or Nigeria; American states don't have to worry about exchange rates, for one thing. But some countries have set up comparable funds. Mongolia, which depends heavily on gold and copper, started a program in 2006 called Child Money, which used mining revenues to pay poor families with children. Since then, the country has swung between payments targeted at the poor and ones provided to all Mongolians.
In 1997, Bolivia decided to spend a quarter of the proceeds from the privatization of oil, telecom and transport companies providing a pension to every Bolivian over 65. The Renta Dignidad program now uses oil and gas proceeds, paying $258 a year to every citizen 60 and older who has some other pension, and $344 a year to those without.
These programs aim to improve citizens' social welfare. A $300 dividend represents four months' income for the poorest rural Bolivian families. Roberto Laserna, president of the La Paz-based Fundación Milenio think tank, writes in a forthcoming paper that since rural families invested the money in their own food production - better seeds, tools and farm animals - each dollar they received increased their food consumption by two dollars.
Todd Moss of the Center for Global Development explains how oil-to-cash programs work.

Money given out to citizens, of course, is money that the government can't use to build schools, roads and health clinics. Spending it that way might improve social welfare even more than simply passing out cash - or it could if the government were actually doing it. But governance tends to be so poor in oil-rich countries, so inefficient and corrupt, that social welfare programs end up never reaching the poor.
This is the big advantage of cash payouts - they are much easier for an ill-governed country to do well, and there are fewer opportunities for politicization or corruption. There isn't a long track record with oil-to-cash programs, but more than 40 countries have some kind of cash transfer programs for the poor. The best known ones, like Bolsa Familia in Brazil and Oportunidades in Mexico, make recipients meet conditions - they need to have their children in school and take their families for regular health checkups to get the money.
These programs have been widely studied; they work. If you remove the conditions and just give out payments to the poor these programs are still good, but they don't do as much to help those most marginalized - parents will use the money to send boys to school, but without the conditions, they won't send girls.
Oil-to-cash programs are essentially unconditional transfers financed by oil. They can be targeted at the poor - like the cash transfers we know - or universal. It is obviously cheaper to pay only the poor. But universality helps the second goal of oil-to-cash: creating better government. If you want citizens to become effective watchdogs, it helps to include people with clout. Governments tend not to respond to the clamors of the poor.
This is why oil-to-cash proponents include something that seems inefficient: the government gives a dollar to people and then takes back 30 cents in taxes. Why not just give out 70 cents?
The reason for this inefficiency, says Moss, is that you want people to know they are paying taxes, and know exactly how much. "That's exactly the point," says Moss. "It creates accountability and forces tax authorities to build a sound, transparent system." (This is plausible, but there is no evidence either way just yet that oil-to-cash programs would lead to better governance.)
Although oil-to-cash is logistically simple - the only thing that moves is money, and that should move electronically - Moss warns that it does have several prerequisites. You need a fund to hold the revenues, a reliable way to identify recipients, and an efficient channel for transferring money.
A decade ago, these would all have been daunting challenges. But in the last 10 years or so, some 40 countries have set up sovereign investment funds, including many oil producers. And most countries are developing biometric IDs - identification using fingerprints, face or iris recognition. India is seeking to provide biometric IDs to 600 million people in the next four years. The other trend is the explosion of cellphone banking - a particularly efficient way to transfer money.
Distributing oil money to citizens is a big step, and oil countries and companies have rejected much more modest ideas that might put limits on their abilities to manipulate oil revenues. One that is gradually gaining ground is the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, now implemented by 37 countries. Under the EITI, oil companies disclose what they pay to governments, and governments disclose what they receive. The EITI then compares and reconciles these figures.
Knowledge of the facts, however, does not necessarily lead to change when powerful interests don't want to change. But oil-to-cash, as Governor Hammond said, is a reform with a constituency. (One potential problem with the idea is that politicians like it too much, says Alexandra Gillies, head of governance at the Revenue Watch Institute; in Mongolia, candidates competed to offer larger and larger transfers "For this policy to work, it has to be implemented with a long-term goal in mind," she said. "Implementing it for short-term political reasons is unlikely to produce the kind of economic outcomes you're looking for.")
Moss lobbied (unsuccessfully) for Iraq to institute oil-to-cash, and several prominent economists in Venezuela's opposition to Chavez are arguing for it. But oil-to-cash is probably easiest to do in countries just starting to exploit - that way there aren't entrenched interests guarding business-as-usual. That's a big list: Cambodia, Papua New Guinea, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Timor and Uganda recently discovered oil or gas.
Ghana has recently become an oil exporter. So far, government officials are not interested in oil-to-cash, preferring to keep the money for roads and bridges. "They had a big infrastructure shopping list," said Moss. But these are the kinds of projects most likely to be felled by mismanagement and graft. "When they have their first major corruption scandal," said Moss, "we'll be back in touch."
 Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. 
 Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World" and the World War II spy story e-book "D for Deception." 

        
Homegrown Hurt
        
On the Road, and Out of the Red
        
A Madman and His Manifesto
        
Winehouse, Breivik and Deadly Ideals
        
What's Worse Than an Oil Spill?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); BRIBERY (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (60%); EXCHANGE RATES (54%) Alaska; Center for Global Development; Corruption (Institutional); Norway; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (84%) Center for Global Development

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%); CHAD (79%) Alaska; Norway

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



471 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: In this review of "Creamy and Crunchy," a new history of peanut butter, it is revealed that the first commercial version was half peanut butter, half processed cheese. Shouldn't this be on the snack menu of every retro-American restaurant, alongside the deviled eggs and beer cheese? -- Julia Moskin
Discover: How do spawning salmon figure out where to go? They're tapped into the Earth's magnetic fields, man. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Gothamist: Pizza topped with shrimp tempura, hot dogs, fish cakes, pineapple and wasabi mayonnaise, delivered to your door (if you live in China, that is). - Melissa Clark
: Narragansett is the new Pabst, cans are the new growlers, and Queens is the new Brooklyn (as in, craft-brew hub). Or so says the magazine's annual beer guide. - Patrick Farrell
: New York bartenders and liquor store owners react to Maker's Mark's move to lower the proof of its bourbon. - Robert Simonson
NPR: Sustainable fishing: the story of Day Boat Seafood and Whole Foods. -- Maria Newman
The Economist: The never-ending battle between government agencies and private certifying bodies in regulating the fraudulent labeling of both kosher and halal food is heating up. How could Muslim prisoners in British jails have been served pork? - Glenn Collins 
Eater: The vegan boom in Southern California is only getting bigger. Up next, a new restaurant from the chef Tal Ronnen. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: In the 1970s, the marvelously named British food writer Josceline Dimbleby wrote marvelous little cookbooks like "Marvellous Meals with Mince." Several have recently been reissued. -- Julia Moskin
Bon Appétit: The magazine includes Eleven Madison Park, Animal, Manresa, Avec, Roberta's and the Momofuku empire in a list of the most important restaurants in America. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: We all know that restaurant workers hate brunch, but Valentine's Day may be a close second: "The staff is grumpy because it's (next to Mother's Day) the least-tipped holiday, cooks are grumpy because we cram more people into the space than we can possibly feed, chefs are grumpy because we're relegated to smaller menus with idiotic little gimmick dishes that somehow are supposed to convey love, and diners are not only grumpy, they're outright crazy." - Patrick Farrell
The Washington Post: White fish fillets, "pulled hot and golden from a deep-fryer, piled high between two slices of sandwich bread and often served with a thin, vinegary hot sauce that goes down as smooth as moonshine,'' is one of the capital's most common dishes. -- Maria Newman
Poetry 180: A Charles Simic poem about waiting a mysteriously long time for a meal in a luncheonette -- and trying to overhear what the cooks are talking about. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Bloomberg News: When the weather forecast is favorable to the cocoa crop in West Africa, which makes up 58 percent of global production, the commodity price goes down. So now, the abundant rain during the dry season in Ivory Coast and Ghana is lifting hopes for bumper crops and more affordable joe. - Glenn Collins
LA Weekly: Glass fragments in Lean Cuisine? Well, that's one way to slim down. -- Jeff Gordinier 
New York: Christina Tosi of Momofuku Milk Bar is everywhere. See her here, with Jimmy Fallon, making fruity cereal milk daiquiris. -- Maria Newman
The New York Times: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has declared victory in the war against salt, after focusing on reducing trans fats and smoking. Some 30 food companies have signed up to reduce salt in foods by 25 percent within five years, as ways of countering high blood pressure, heart attacks and strokes. But substitute salt - potassium chloride - has risks of its own. - Glenn Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD MISLABELING (78%); BEER & ALE (77%); FISHES (76%); WRITERS (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (72%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (71%); POETRY (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); MEAT FREE DIETS (57%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (52%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) EARTH (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



472 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Microcars From Georgia Museum Going on the Auction Block

BYLINE: PHIL PATTON


HIGHLIGHT: This week, some 200 microcars are set to be sold by RM Auctions. They are the collection of the Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum. 

 BODY:
[Video: Watch on Youtube.]
Microcars are the Munchkins of the car world, the vehicles seized on by cartoon makers for comic relief. (The Isetta for "Cars" and the Zündapp Janus for "Cars 2.")
If the face of the current Camaro suggests a saber-toothed tiger, that of the 1950s Messerschmitt Kabinenroller evokes the visage of Jar Jar Binks. 
This week, some 200 of the lovable cars loosely called microcars are to be sold by RM Auctions. They are the collection of the Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum, which also includes vending machines, signs and toys. The sale will be held Friday and Saturday in Madison, Ga., about 50 miles east of Atlanta and the home of Mr. Weiner, former chief of the company that made Dubble Bubble gum.
Microcars are usually defined as models shorter than 10 feet and with engines smaller than 700 cubic centimeters displacement. They thrived in the 1940s and 1950s. Many of them had only three wheels, to take advantage of laws that classified them as scooters. Some had motorcycle engines and chain drives instead of transmissions.
For fans of the cars who can't make it to Madison, RM offers a catalog, much of it written by Peter Svilans, a microcar restorer and historian. He offers detailed information from such primary sources as The Ka-Ro Express, the internal newsletter of the Messerschmitt Kabinenroller factory. (Who knew?)
The catalog is available through RM in print, online and PDF form.
The golden age of the microcar was the postwar period in Europe. Wrecked economies and currency constrictions meant limits to car building and low incomes meant few buyers.
In Germany, companies like Messerschmitt, Heinkel and Dornier that were familiar on World War II battlefields built "bubble cars." But the microcars played a crucial economic role: the three-wheel front-door Isetta helped save BMW.
Only a few thousand microcars made it to the United States. I still recall climbing into an Isetta as a first grader and wondering if it was intended as a real car, like our family's 1957 Chevrolet.
The Weiner collection includes some of the rarest and best named, like the Scootacar and Kleinschnittger F-125. Among the cars are several variations of the Messerschmitt: the 1961 Messerschmitt KR 200, a 1957 Messerschmitt KR 201 Roadster and a Tiger mode. Other rare names include Brütsch, Rollera, Jurisch Motoplan and Reyonnah.
Mr. Weiner found his rarest examples on business trips to Europe. As the catalog notes, because of their size and toylike character, "microcars tended not to be scrapped so much as put away, forgotten." Mr. Weiner pried many of them out of garages and stables, often after repeated visits to owners.
The cars include the Spanish Biscuter, a sort of dwarf 2CV created by the French aviation pioneer Gabriel Voisin, and Japanese models including an early Mazda and a Fuji Cabin. Among the most lovable are the Goggomobils, small delivery vehicles used by the German postal service. Two in the sale are done up in Coca-Cola and Krispy Kreme liveries, adorable if not too authentic.
One persistent idea among microcar builders was the conviction that cars could be built more cheaply by designing front and rear panels to be identical and easier to stamp out. One example is the nearly symmetrical 1953 Champion 400H, built in Ludwigshafen, Germany. Another is the Zündapp Janus (for the god who looked both forward and backward.) Microcars, too, looked back to the crude beginnings of the automobile and forward to the future of stylish, personal transportation.

        
Pebble Beach Stars, Minus a Couple Zeroes
        
$223.8 Million Worth of Classic Cars Auctioned
        
2 Ferrari 250 GTs Auctioned for More Than $8 Million Each
        
By Court Order, $3.8 Million Mercedes-Benz Roadster Might Be Returned to Heirs
        
Midcentury Ferrari Racecars Headline Sale in Monaco

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); AUCTIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); HISTORY (75%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%) Bruce Weiner Microcar Museum; Isetta; microcars; RM Auctions; Zundapp Janus; Voisin, Gabriel; Auctions; Automobiles; Georgia; Germany; Collectible Cars

ORGANIZATION: RM Auctions

PERSON: Voisin, Gabriel

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (73%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Georgia; Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



473 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Rising From Ruins

BYLINE: RAJA SHEHADEH


HIGHLIGHT: Even as Israel neglects a major archaeological site in the West Bank, it is preventing the Palestinian Authority from tending to it. 

 BODY:
SEBASTIA, West Bank - I spent last Sunday, a gorgeous early spring day, visiting a colonnaded street leading to a Roman theater, the 30 B.C. temple of Augustus and a church built to commemorate the martyrdom of John the Baptist, which supposedly occurred on this hill. These and many more ruins can be seen in Sebastia, an ancient city first settled in the Early Bronze Age less than ten miles northwest of Nablus.
Throughout our tour of this impressive archeological site my two companions and I did not see a single label identifying what we were looking at. There were no entrance fees, ushers or brochures. Valuable ruins were scattered over a large area: a Roman bronze column here, a beautifully carved capitol there, all laying in thick green grass among pink cyclamen, red poppies and yellow dandelion. Shards of clay vessels stuck out of the path where we walked. 
No official, neither Israeli nor Palestinian, manned the entrance to the site, and no guard protected the relics from robbers. In the course of the entire day we spent in Sebastia we saw only two small clusters of tourists, one of South Koreans and the other a small American church group from Georgia.
The four restaurants around the site were empty. I asked Mahmoud Ghazal, the owner of Samaria Restaurant, why that was. "Because this falls in Area C," he told me, referring to the area of the West Bank that is under Israel's jurisdiction according to the 1993 Oslo Accords.
"It starts from this part of my building where the restaurant is. The rest of the building where you are in now, the souvenir shop, is area B, under the Palestinian Authority."
The Oslo Accords list Sebastia among the archeological sites of importance to Israel, yet Israel is not taking care of the place, arguably one of the most important set of ruins in the West Bank. Nor is it allowing the Palestinian Authority to do so. And even though USAID-supported renovation work is taking place in the village, supposedly to improve the ailing Palestinian economy by encouraging tourism in the West Bank, the international community has done nothing to oppose Israeli actions that impede tourism (and are contrary to international law).
A hilly village nearby, which is also called Sebastia, falls in Area B. It is under Palestinian control, protected by Palestinian guards and inhabited by some 3,000 Palestinians. Significant renovation work has been conducted there, with funding from the Italian government. 
There are the Roman tombs first excavated by Israel in the 1970s - and then abandoned when no Jewish tombs were found. There is also a so-called Great Hall, which was used as a stable during the Crusader period, and the beautiful mosque of Nabi Yahya (the Arabic name of John the Baptist), last rebuilt by the Ottomans in the 19th century. An attractive tourist guesthouse with modern facilities and porches overlooking cultivated fields and blooming almond trees stood empty.
A few years ago when I visited Sebastia, I was stopped at the Shave Shomeron checkpoint and was kept there for several hours. No one stopped us on Sunday. But the red signs in Arabic, English and Hebrew warning visitors they are entering a Palestinian-controlled area at their peril, a zone where Israeli citizens are prohibited to enter, hardly were welcoming.
The economic situation in the West Bank is so dire these days that the Palestinian Authority is struggling to pay the salaries of its civil servants. If European and American funders really want to help, they should pressure Israel to allow Palestinians in the West Bank to properly exploit the resources at hand. Sebastia surely is one of those.

        
The Countersettlement
        
More Than a Land Grab
        
No Road Leads to Jerusalem
        
Action-Overreaction
        
The Plight of the Palestinian Olive Tree

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%) Palestinian Authority; Palestinians; West Bank; Middle East

ORGANIZATION: Palestinian Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%) West Bank

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



474 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Is There Another Way Forward Over North Korea?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: As escalation grips Northeast Asia after North Korea set off a third nuclear explosion, some are asking: is there another way forward? Is providing North Korea with a sense of security the solution? 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Another nuclear test in North Korea. More United Nations-led sanctions. Increasing militarization in Northeast Asia, with South Korea planning to deploy cruise missiles capable of striking North Korea and Pyongyang threatening unspecified "second and third measures of greater intensity" against the United States as punishment for persistent American "hostility," with the nuclear test Tuesday just a first measure.
Is escalation the only way forward in Northeast Asia? Could there, should there, must there be another way? 
In editorials and "View Points" articles by China's state news agency, Xinhua, a different argument is being made to the West's pressure and sanctions (though as my colleague Jane Perlez wrote, the debate in China about what to do about North Korea is increasingly shaded with different opinions, and not everyone here, including among policy makers, agrees what to do.)
The "root cause" of the crisis is not being addressed, runs this argument. North Korea has no sense of security in the region. And until that is addressed, nothing will improve.
Surrounded by hostility from South Korea and Japan, faced with a militarily superior United States, North Korea is "desperate," Xinhua says. "Disastrous fallout" could be the result, said an article in the Global Times newspaper, attributed to Xinhua, titled: "Time to address root causes of nuclear crisis on Korean Peninsula."
"At a superficial level, it was Pyongyang that has repeatedly breached U.N. resolutions and used its nuclear program as a weapon to challenge the world community, which was considered to be unwise and regrettable," the article said. "In reality, the D.P.R.K.'s defiance was deeply rooted in its strong sense of insecurity after years of confrontation with South Korea, Japan and a militarily more superior United States."
In another article, Xinhua anticipated more strong condemnation from the West, and tougher sanctions. But it said: "The struggle of hardness hitting hardness will undoubtedly escalate the situation on the Korean peninsula. It will make the problem more complicated and harder to solve," it said.
The answer, then, would entail a change of direction from the West. But is such a position merely self-serving, to be expected from China, North Korea's main ally, which wants the country to be a buffer state between it and South Korea, where American troops are stationed?
Perhaps. Yet here's another voice, this one from a different direction, saying something quite similar.
"Are more sanctions really going to make North Korea cry uncle?" asked Spencer H. Kim in an opinion piece in The Korea Times in late December, before the nuclear test Tuesday but at a time when the test had been widely expected.
"Look at a map; it has a long border with China. If China and North Korea want to tango, then we are powerless to turn off the music," wrote Mr. Kim in "Sympathy for the devil - how best to deal with NK." The Korea Times identifies Mr. Kim as chairman of CBOL, a California aerospace company, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a nonresident fellow at Harvard's Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
"Let us ask some probing questions of ourselves and perhaps even look at history a bit from the other guy's eyes," Mr. Kim wrote.
After South Korea's engagement-based "Sunshine Policy" of the late 1990s, by the early 2000s things were improving for North Korea in terms of internationalization, Mr. Kim wrote. An October 2000 joint communiqué between North Korea and the White House even resolved to "fundamentally improve" relations and "formally end the Korean War by replacing the 1953 Armistice Agreement with permanent peace arrangements," he wrote.
"In Pyongyang's eyes, however, George Bush then slammed on the brakes, even naming North Korea part of an 'Axis of Evil,' " he wrote.
Security is a major issue, Mr. Kim continued, but don't leave that in China's hands. "The North Koreans want lasting security but don't want to have to learn how to speak fluent Chinese to get it," he wrote. "Upon reflection, it is time to talk, and keep talking until the deal is done."

        
North Korean Missile Could Be in Japanese Cross Hairs
        
Lively Online Reactions in China to Nuclear Test
        
Simmering Chinese Anger at Japan Is Now on the Boil
        
North Korea: Have We Seen This Movie Before?
        
Talking Trust With China's Army

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Perlez, Jane; Defense and Military Forces; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Nuclear Tests; Council on Foreign Relations; Global Times; Xinhua; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; North Korea; Pyongyang (North Korea); South Korea; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%) Council on Foreign Relations; Global Times; Xinhua

PERSON: Perlez, Jane

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) ASIA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; North Korea; Pyongyang (North Korea); South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



475 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Feb. 13

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama delivers his State of the Union address; Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus is rejected again; a new theater for opera and ballet in St. Petersburg; and wrestling is dropped from the Olympics. 

 BODY:
 NEWS In his State of the Union address, President Obama pledged to fight for a higher minimum wage, more government investment in schools and clean energy, and deficit reduction through spending cuts and tax increases. Mark Landler reports from Washington. 
Whether or not Xi Jinping gets tough on North Korea could tell the United States what kind of leader he will be, and what kind of relationship he envisions with Washington. Jane Perlez reports from Beijing.
"It wasn't one thing, but a whole combination of them" that caused Pope Benedict XVI to resign, a Vatican expert said. Scandals have battered the papacy relentlessly. Rachel Donadio reports from Vatican City.
Created five years ago to focus on training the armed forces of dozens of African nations and strengthening social, political and economic programs, the U.S. Pentagon's Africa Command now finds itself on a more urgent mission: confronting a new generation of Islamist militants who are testing the United States' resolve to fight terrorism without being drawn into a major conflict. Eric Schmitt reports from Niamey, Niger.
Seven top industrial nations, including the United States and Germany, pledged on Tuesday to let foreign exchange markets determine the value of their currencies. The statement eased fears in Japan, where officials had been under fire from some officials in Europe and the United States who said they were unfairly bringing down the yen's value. James Kanter reports from Brussels and Annie Lowrey from Washington.
The Spanish Supreme Court ruled unexpectedly Tuesday that the previous government had gone too far in its pardon of Alfredo Sáenz, the chief executive of Banco Santander, reinstating his criminal record and throwing into question his continued tenure at the bank. Raphael Minder reports from Madrid.
Giuseppe Orsi of the the Italian state-controlled defense group Finmeccanica was arrested in an investigation centered on the sale of helicopters to the Indian government. David Jolly reports.
Ryanair, based in Dublin and Europe's largest budget airline by number of passenger, said it had been informed at a meeting Tuesday with officials of the European Commission that Brussels "intends to prohibit" the airline's nearly (EURO)700 million, or $942 million, bid for Aer Lingus. The company said its proposed concessions and remedies did not go far enough to allay antitrust concerns. Nicola Clark reports from Paris.
 ARTS Valery Gergiev, the Russian conductor, is preparing to open the Mariinsky 2, his new theater for opera and ballet in St. Petersburg. Alison Smale reports.
 FASHION In New York, collections are either beautiful expressions of a designer's vision or forgettable shows suitable for those continuous loops in city cabs. Suzy Menkes reviews the shows.
 SPORTS Wrestling, one of the earliest and most elemental Olympic sports, was dropped from the Summer Games on Tuesday in a stunning and widely criticized decision by the International Olympic Committee. Jeré Longman reports.
Jürgen Klopp has built a soccer club in Dortmund that consistently wins on an affordable payroll, so it is no surprise that many think he may soon head to one of the bigger clubs in Europe. Rob Hughes writes from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); BALLET (88%); CURRENCIES (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RELIGION (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); TERRORISM (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); PARDONS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); ARRESTS (63%); HELICOPTERS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); SOCCER (60%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (54%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (53%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (52%)

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (54%); SANT (BIT) (54%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (54%); SAN (NYSE) (54%); SAN (MCE) (54%); SAN (BMV) (54%); BNC (LSE) (54%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (53%); RYA (LSE) (53%); AERL (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); XI JINPING (79%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BELGIUM (90%); HOLY SEE (90%); JAPAN (79%); NIGER (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



476 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: How to Help Veterans Succeed in College

BYLINE: RYAN GALLUCCI


HIGHLIGHT: Who should be responsible for informing veterans about the nuances of higher education? Once a veteran is on campus, it may be too late, argues Ryan Gallucci of the nonprofit organization Veterans of Foreign Wars. 

 BODY:
In 2004, I returned from a year in Iraq to finish my undergraduate degree at the University of Rhode Island. Since I took more than a year's leave of absence to deploy, I was forced to reapply to the university. While writing another entrance essay to explain how I spent my "year off," I wondered why my school didn't have a peer support system for its students who are veterans.
In just a few years, the narrative for veterans on my campus and many others has changed dramatically because of the hard work of student-led veterans' groups like the ones I met at the recent Student Veterans of America national conference in Orlando.
The conference showed me how student veterans continue to look out for the best interests of their comrades on campus, much like they did in the military. Plus, as college veterans' groups grow in size and influence, they manage to affect positive change in their communities. In January, veterans at Clemson University commissioned a volunteer-led veterans' resource center where veterans can receive transitional assistance, career guidance, and peer support. Meanwhile, veterans at Florida State University continue to push the state legislature to change archaic in-state tuition policies. 
Over a few beers, veterans opened up about some of the challenges they faced when coming back to college, like immature classmates or closed-minded professors, but they also readily shared ways they worked to build understanding on campus through their organized veterans' groups.
Unfortunately, the conference also reinforced a lingering concern that many of today's student veterans must still choose their schools and navigate the complexities of college life on the fly when they arrive on campus.
As an article in the Education Life section of The New York Times details, many colleges have stepped up to offer in-depth counseling to incoming student veterans, with some going so far as to offer orientation programs and learning communities specifically for veteran undergraduates. The one flaw to this system, however, is that at this point, the veteran has already chosen an institution. What if he or she just isn't academically or financially ready for college?
In 2010's National Survey of Veterans, more than 40 percent of post-9/11 veterans reported that they were not aware of and did not understand their education benefits. Veterans should be armed with quality information before they start the application process. Once a veteran is on campus, it may be too late. Is this lack of up-front information perhaps driving misconceptions that veterans won't succeed when they arrive on campus?
When I started college more than a decade ago, I missed orientation because of basic training. I then struggled to find good information on using my benefits from the G.I. Bill of Rights and had to write a personal check just to get my grades. As a 19-year-old student who lived in a dormitory with few financial obligations, I had the time and the leftover Army income to foot the bill and sort out the G.I. Bill later. Many veterans don't have this luxury.
So who should be responsible for informing veterans about the nuances of higher education? Federal law dictates that some of the responsibility falls on the military and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Separating service members have access to the military transition assistance program, or TAP, and those who have left active duty are entitled to free educational counseling from the veterans department. The department offers the 1-888-GIBILL-1 hotline and the eBenefits online portal, but neither is equipped to answer in-depth questions on higher education, nor can they be used to register for counseling.
I recently participated in both the Department of Veterans Affairs counseling and T.A.P. To apply for counseling, I had to find a form online, print it and mail it to my closest veterans affairs office. Two months later, I received a letter from a department contractor, asking me to take aptitude and interest tests to determine my career goals. The bubble sheet exams confirmed that I worked in the right industry, so I was finally referred to a counselor who could meet one on one.
The counseling process helped answer my questions, but I found some of the steps unnecessary and confusing, which likely discourages other veterans from using it too. Nevertheless, it worked. Wouldn't the department want to enroll more veterans?
The agency to deliver G.I. Bill counseling. Last year the Congressional Budget Office analyzed a proposal to make it easier for veterans to apply for educational aid, but the cost would have been high. During the recent conference, I asked the audience if anyone knew that the department even offered educational counseling. Only a couple of veterans raised their hands.
T.A.P. is not particularly helpful for veterans looking for information about education benefits. When I attended the benefits briefing last spring, the instructor focused on other veterans programs, such as health care, home loans and disability compensation, fielding dozens of questions along the way. When education benefits finally came up, the instructor was fighting the clock and glossed over the material, apparently assuming that service members understood the nuances of the highly promoted benefit. But clearly they do not.
Some T.A.P. facilities do better than others, offering resources like guidance counselors for separating service members. But these innovations seem to be have been developed at the discretion of individual program facilitators, and service members must carve out personal time to use them.
Still, my outlook for current student veterans remains overwhelmingly positive. Not only are veterans and colleges stepping up to take care of their own, but policy makers in Washington have recognized deficiencies in programs and are finally taking steps to fix some of them.
Thanks to the Vow to Hire Heroes Act of 2011, the Pentagon is piloting new T.A.P. curricula geared toward college-bound veterans. Because of an April executive order, the Pentagon, Department of Veterans Affairs and other federal agencies are compiling student outcome information and developing ways to track student feedback from colleges that are eligible for GI Bill students. Finally, because of last month's Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Act, Congress has required the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide more information on how veterans are faring at individual colleges, and department is looking to deliver more cost-effective counseling tools for student veterans.
With all of these changes afloat, the veterans community must keep the pressure on the Pentagon, Department of Veterans Affairs, Congress and schools to ensure that educational information is relevant and easy to access for student veterans.
The first four-year class of Post-9/11 G.I. Bill veterans will graduate this spring, and I look forward to following their successes after college. For those still serving who plan to use their benefits in the future, we have an opportunity to arm them with the best information to get the most out of their G.I. Bill.
We never send a new recruit to war without proper training and equipment. We should never send a veteran to college without reasonable guidance for what lies ahead.
 Ryan Gallucci is the deputy legislative director for the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Washington, where he focuses on economic opportunity policy for veterans and maintains the VFW's Capitol Hill blog. He deployed to Iraq as an Army Civil Affairs specialist in 2003 and 2004 before completing his undergraduate studies at the University of Rhode Island in 2006.

        
Veterans in College: Share Your Stories
        
The Role of the Military and Veterans in Politics
        
A Veteran's Plea to President Obama
        
Victims of Sexual Trauma Harness the Calming Power of Horses
        
A Case That Could Unhinge a Veterans Benefits 'Hamster Wheel'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); VETERANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (76%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (76%); TUITION FEES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) Clemson University; Colleges and Universities; Education (K-12); Student Veterans of America; Veterans; Veterans Affairs Department; Veterans of Foreign Wars; At War; Employment; GI Bill; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011; PTSD

ORGANIZATION: CLEMSON UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (84%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%) Clemson University; Student Veterans of America; Veterans Affairs Department; Veterans of Foreign Wars

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



477 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Using Federal Oil Revenues to Cut America's Oil Use

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Energy experts speculate about what how an "energy security trust" could be financed and forge new paths. 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union message on Tuesday night, President Obama proposed the creation of an "Energy Security Trust" to find alternatives to dependence on oil for the nation's transportation needs. The trust would be financed from revenue from oil and gas royalties that the federal government collects from companies that drill on federal land.
As is customary in State of the Union speeches, Mr. Obama did not give much detail, but plenty of other voices were happy to fill in the blanks on Wednesday morning. The idea has obvious political appeal - using oil revenues to wean the country from oil - but it has a way to go before reaching fruition. 
Securing America's Future Energy, or SAFE, a group comprising retired admirals and generals and chief executives of major American companies, pointed out that it had Finding a stable long-term source of revenue would help address the need for funds for research and development, the group said.
Among the details unmentioned in Mr. Obama's speech was money. SAFE said that $500 million would be a nice number but that it would settle for anywhere from $200 million to $500 million a year. Royalty revenues last year were around $5 billion, the group said. 
But nobody seems clear on how much is spent on research on transportation alternatives now. Last year the government spent about $2.9 billion on energy research and development, SAFE said, but that sum includes nontransportation uses. 
 4:13 p.m. | Updated 
 A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Wednesday that the administration would ask Congress to direct $200 million a year to the fund for 10 years. That would be added to a existing research and development program at the Energy Department; in recent years the administration has been asking for $300 million for that program. While the money would be raised from oil and gas revenues and be spent to reduce oil use, the official said, some of it would be spent to increase natural gas use in vehicles. 

To some extent, money alone is not the challenge. A variety of companies have spent tens of millions of dollars on factories to make car and truck fuel from alternative sources in recent years but have not made much headway in getting those fuels to take hold. 
Still, the Energy Department reported last year in a technology review that it was "underinvested" in the transportation sector by comparison with the "stationary sector," meaning energy efficiency, the grid and electric power. 
Oil dependence "is the greatest immediate threat to U.S. economic and national security, and also contributes to the long-term threat of climate change,'' the department said. 
In a conference call on Wednesday morning. Robbie Diamond, the president and chief executive of the group, suggested that no new taxes on oil would be required to finance the energy trust. But the trust would obviously dedicate money to research that could have been used for other purposes, and that will require action by Congress, always uncertain.
Certainly the impetus is there, though. SAFE said that spending per household on oil in the United States is now at a peak: more than $3,000 annually, representing a transfer of wealth overseas as well as a national security vulnerability. 

        
Lead by Example, Clinton Tells Sustainability Forum
        
A New Path on Emissions
        
Hands Off, Oil Industry Warns Government
        
A Pledge to Reform Greedy Set-Top Boxes
        
America's Greenest Presidents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); BIOFUELS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) national security; oil dependence; Securing America's Future Energy; State of the Union; Transportation; Obama, Barack; Energy Efficiency; Royalties; State of the Union Message (US); United States Economy; United States; Automobiles; Biofuels; Breaking News; climate change; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Oil; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



478 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Police Arrest Keystone XL Protesters

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Four dozen activists were handcuffed and led away while calling on President Obama to reject construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline. 

 BODY:
Four dozen environmental activists succeeded in getting themselves arrested outside the White House on Wednesday afternoon to draw attention to their demand that President Obama reject construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada.
Julian Bond, the civil rights leader; Daryl Hannah, the actress; Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club; Robert F. Kennedy Jr., president of the Waterkeeper Alliance; Bill McKibben, a longtime climate change campaigner; and James Hansen, a prominent climate scientist, were the celebrity faces of the arrestees, who zip-tied themselves to the White House fence and defied police orders to leave.
They and about 40 others were hauled away in police vans, charged with failure to disperse and obey lawful orders, and released on $100 bond each. 
The Sierra Club, whose board authorized participation in acts of civil disobedience for the first time in the group's 120-year history, organized the protest. Mr. Brune said that Mr. Obama had made forceful and eloquent statements about the need to address climate change, including remarks in Tuesday night's State of the Union address, and now needed to stop the pipeline to signal his seriousness.

"It's awfully difficult to reconcile a concerted attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with the massive development of the dirtiest oil on the planet," Mr. Brune said before his arrest.
As the protest was under way, Jack Gerard, president of the American Petroleum Institute and Sean McGarvey president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Building and Construction Trades Department, were on a conference call telling reporters that Mr. Obama should approve the pipeline. "It will create thousands of jobs, expand access to secure supplies of Canadian crude oil and represent an investment in America's economy and energy future consistent with president's vision in the State of the Union last night," Mr. Gerard said.
He said that the petroleum lobby, unions and other pipeline supporters planned a nationwide campaign in favor of the project. Pipeline opponents, too, are preparing a number of other public protests, including one in Washington on Sunday.
Environmental advocates have mounted a number of actions calling on Mr. Obama to veto the 1,700-mile pipeline, which would carry heavy crude from oil sands formations in Alberta to refineries on the Gulf Coast. The project requires State Department approval because it crosses an international border; Mr. Obama has said that he will make the ultimate decision on whether it gets built.
The State Department is preparing a new environmental impact statement and has said it will be prepared to make a recommendation on the pipeline this spring. The White House has given no indication what Mr. Obama intends to do.
Mr. Bond, the former executive director of the N.A.A.C.P., dressed in an elegant camel-hair topcoat, said he had never spoken out against the Keystone project before Wednesday's protest. "I'm joining this group of people because it's the cause of the hour, or of the moment, at least," he said.
He said that the N.A.A.C.P. had been involved in environmental causes for decades but would like to see the environmental movement become more diverse and more aggressive. "And I want it to win," he said.
 An earlier version of this post misstated Michael Brune's position at the Sierra Club. He is executive director, not president. 

        
Activist Artist vs. Pipeline
        
Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands
        
Oil Sands Foes Are Foes of Canada, Minister Says
        
A Rancher Stands Up for His Scrub Trees
        
Who Will Step Up to Meet Oil Demand?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); ARRESTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); VETO (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) Canada; environmental protests; Keystone XL pipeline; Oil Sands; white house; climate change; Emissions Reduction; Living; Oil

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%); AFL-CIO (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



479 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Indian Music Service, Taking Page From Spotify, Goes Pro

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO


HIGHLIGHT: Saavn, a Spotify-like streaming service that specializes in Indian music, and has garnered 10.5 million monthly users with advertising-supported free listening. This week it will announce that it has taken another page from Spotify's book, by offering a premium version at $4 a month. 

 BODY:
Western music fans have no shortage of digital music services to choose from, and that abundance is spreading around the world. Apple's iTunes is now in 119 countries, and others are racing to plant their digital flags everywhere. This week, for example, Spotify opened in Italy, Poland and Portugal, bringing its reach to 23 countries.
But just as interesting, and in the long run perhaps as significant to competition, is the rise of services that serve regional markets intensely. One is Saavn, a Spotify-like streaming service that specializes in Indian music, and has garnered 10.5 million monthly users with advertising-supported free listening. This week it will announce that it has taken another page from Spotify's book, by offering a premium version at $4 a month that eliminates the ads, lets users listen to songs offline and will eventually add other features like higher quality audio. 
Saavn, which has offices in New York, India and Mountain View, Calif., has a catalog of 1.1 million songs in nine languages and is available in more than 200 countries, with about 70 percent of its consumption within India, said Rishi Malhotra, one of its founders. Like Spotify, iHeartRadio and other Western services, it is an official partner of Facebook. About 80 percent of its use is on mobile devices, Mr. Malhotra said, and when the premium service, Saavn Pro, is opened in March, it will at first be available only for Apple devices.

The pricing is significantly lower than Western services. "We wanted to make it globally acceptable," said Mr. Malhotra, who is based in New York. "The $10 price point that you see from a lot of music services we use here is way out of reach from what would fly in India or a lot of other emerging markets."
Saavn believes it can succeed in India not only through its catalog of Bollywood hits, but through technological touches that may be meaningful only to Indian listeners. One example is the ability to search for a Bollywood song based on the actor who lip-synchs it -- often more memorable to fans than the "playback" singer who actually provided the voice.
If successful, Saavn Pro could give the company an advantage in India's quickly developing digital music market, which already has a handful of streaming services, like Dhingana, as well as a strong presence in downloads from Nokia. Yet that market is still tiny for a country of India's size and overall media spending. According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, recorded music had only $141 million in trade (or wholesale) value in 2011. A recent report by Ernst & Young said that music and radio combined count for only 2.4 percent of India's media and entertainment spending, which for 2011 it estimated at $18 billion.
Part of the reason for music's small proportion of India's media economy is that popular music in India is dominated by the film industry. But a greater reason is piracy; the federation estimates that 55 percent of Internet users in India go to unlicensed music services on a monthly basis. That is slowly starting to change, music executives say, as courts there crack down on infringement and legitimate digital services proliferate. Apple's iTunes opened there in December, and Nokia says it sells 1.4 million songs a day at its download store in India.
And Indian record companies are approaching digital business without the baggage that has been complicating deals with Western labels and services for more than a decade, Mr. Malhotra added.
"The labels in India are not reluctant about digital," he said. "It's not like they are protecting against some established, older revenue stream. It's all found revenue for them."

        
Digital Notes: the Scorecard on Social Media's Grammy Predictions
        
Warner Music Group Buys EMI Assets for $765 Million
        
Shazam Expands Catalog Through Deal With Online Dance Store Beatport
        
In Dispute Over Ray Charles Songs, Family Gains Victory in Court
        
Backstage to Acquire Sonicbids

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%) India; Malhotra, Rishi; Music; Saavn LLC; Digital Notes

COMPANY: SPOTIFY LTD (92%); APPLE INC (74%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Saavn LLC

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (74%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (74%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: Malhotra, Rishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



480 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Why Are Small Businesses Less Optimistic Than Big Ones?

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: For one thing, big businesses have a larger global footprint, which gives them greater exposure to growth in places like China and Brazil. 

 BODY:
In an article just published by The Times, Catherine Rampell notes that when it comes to optimism about the economy, there is a big gulf between small and large companies. Ms. Rampell reports that while measures of optimism for big companies now exceed prerecession levels, a recent survey from the National Federation of Independent Business found that expectations for business conditions six months from now were at their fourth-lowest level in nearly 40 years. 
So why are small businesses so much more pessimistic?
The article offers a number of possibilities:
o Big companies have a larger global footprint and are benefiting from growth in places like China and India.
o Small businesses are more likely to be traumatized by the political confusion and uncertainty in Washington. "Politicians are uniformly quick to offer paeans to small businesses, but their actions have directly held back the sector, to the huge detriment of the economy," said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors.
o Owners who sell directly to consumers are concerned about the effects of recent tax increases, like the end of the payroll tax holiday, on their bottom lines.
o While commercial and industrial lending numbers from the Federal Reserve suggest that the credit market for small businesses is healing, many small business are still struggling to have their credit needs met.
The stakes would seem to be high for all businesses. "Until the small-business sector starts to feel better," Mr. Shepherdson told Ms. Rampell, "the rest of the economy isn't going to feel much better, either."
How would you explain the gulf between small and large businesses?

        
Small Businesses Plan to Increase Hiring
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
Taking a Third Pass at Selling Movie Subscriptions
        
Why a Victim of Sandy Doesn't Want an S.B.A. Loan
        
When a Super Bowl Promotion Goes Right

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX LAW (67%) National Federation of Independent Business; Small Business; Today's Question

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (91%) National Federation of Independent Business

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



481 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2312 words

HEADLINE: On Second Thoughts

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama and Karl Rove have both paid a political price for strategic errors that they are now striving to overcome. 

 BODY:
President Obama is pushing hard to persuade Congress to back off from the brutal spending cuts - $1.2 trillion - mandated by the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act, which he signed into law on Aug. 2, 2011.

In a simultaneous, but unrelated development, Karl Rove is pressing top Republican donors to back his Conservative Victory Project, an organization designed to snuff out the candidacies of right-wing extremists in Republican primaries who, in 2010 and 2012, prevented the party from winning a Senate majority.
These otherwise different situations have at least one thing in common: Obama and Rove are trying to claw their way out of holes they dug for themselves. Obama's fingerprints are all over the sequestration he is now determined to avoid, and Rove played a central role in the creation of the ideologically rigid Republican Party he would like to guide back toward the center.
The most serious issue is the sequester, about which we have heard a lot lately. As part of the 2011 debt ceiling-budget agreement, the administration and Congress included a provision calling for $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts over nine years, amounting to $85 billion this year. The cuts would be split, half in domestic programs, half in military programs, if no agreement on deficit reduction is reached. 
The Sword of Damocles is about to drop.
In his weekly radio address on Feb. 9, Obama warned:
If the sequester is allowed to go forward, thousands of Americans who work in fields like national security, education or clean energy are likely to be laid off. Firefighters and food inspectors could also find themselves out of work - leaving our communities vulnerable. Programs like Head Start would be cut, and lifesaving research into diseases like cancer and Alzheimer's could be scaled back.
In terms of national defense, Obama said:
Already, the threat of deep cuts has forced the Navy to delay an aircraft carrier that was supposed to deploy to the Persian Gulf. As our military leaders have made clear, changes like this affect our ability to respond to threats in an unstable part of the world.
Seeking to buttress its case against sequestration, the White House has issued a "Fact Sheet: Examples of How the Sequester Would Impact Middle Class Families, Jobs and Economic Security." Obama has declared that if sequestration takes place, all of "our economic progress could be put at risk."
The president took his case against sequestration to the nation in Tuesday's State of the Union address:
These sudden, harsh, arbitrary cuts would jeopardize our military readiness. They'd devastate priorities like education, and energy, and medical research. They would certainly slow our recovery, and cost us hundreds of thousands of jobs.
The Jan. 30 Department of Commerce report which showed that Gross Domestic Product had unexpectedly fallen by 0.1 percent in the last quarter of 2012 strengthened Obama's argument that cutting government spending weakens the economic recovery. Almost every analysis of the decline in G.D.P. attributes it to a sharp fourth quarter reduction in defense spending, cuts that are scheduled to increase drastically under sequestration.
If the country experiences a major economic setback as a result of the inability of Congress and the administration to resolve the deficit dilemma, Obama will not emerge with clean hands.
The Washington Post's fact checker, Glenn Kessler - and Bob Woodward, in his book "The Price of Politics" - clearly identify administration staffers as the originators of the sequestration proposal as part of the 2011 negotiations with Congress.
Obama's role in the lead-up to the sequestration crisis has deep roots. The president, even before taking office, led the charge in emphasizing the deficit, arguably undermining the fledgling economic recovery.
On Jan. 15, 2009, five days before his inauguration - and before the first hiccup of the Tea Party - Obama announced plans to hold a "Fiscal Responsibility Summit" to address the issue of rising red ink.
When the summit was held a month later, Obama's commitment to cutting the deficit was unequivocal. The president declared:
We cannot, and will not, sustain deficits like these without end. Contrary to the prevailing wisdom in Washington these past few years, we cannot simply spend as we please and defer the consequences to the next budget, the next administration, or the next generation.
Speaking from the depths of the fiscal collapse, Obama warned:
We are paying the price for these deficits right now. In 2008 alone, we paid $250 billion in interest on our debt - one in every 10 taxpayer dollars. That is more than three times what we spent on education that year; more than seven times what we spent on V.A. health care.
He then made an impossible-to-keep promise:
Today I'm pledging to cut the deficit we inherited in half by the end of my first term in office. This will not be easy. It will require us to make difficult decisions and face challenges we've long neglected. But I refuse to leave our children with a debt that they cannot repay - and that means taking responsibility right now, in this administration, for getting our spending under control.
Obama survived these early tactical missteps and won re-election by a strong margin, but he opened the door to the initiation of austerity policies well before the country had reached anything approaching a secure recovery, policies that a substantial number of economists believe hinderedthe creation of new jobs. The post-2008 economic expansion has been the weakest of any recovery since the end of World War II.
The Congressional Budget Office predicted on Feb. 5 of this year that G.D.P. would grow at a very modest 1.4 percent if the sequestration takes place as currently scheduled. By reducing the amount of disposable income taxpayers have to spend, the elimination of the temporary payroll tax cut and tax hikes for the well-to-do will also contribute to slow growth, according to the C.B.O.
In political terms, when Obama placed the deficit at center stage he gave the Republican Party the leverage to push through $917 billion in spending cuts enacted in the 2011 Budget Control Act - over and apart from the looming $1.2 trillion sequestration.
Sequestration is scheduled to begin on March 1.
Now, what about Karl Rove's second thoughts?
Here is the way in which Rove's bid to purge his party of general election losers like Todd Akin of Missouri and Richard Mourdock of Indiana unfolded.
Back in 2001, Rove was the key player laying the groundwork for the eventual emergence of seriously right-wing candidates.
In the aftermath of George W. Bush's fraught 2000 victory, Rove - along with key advisers including Matt Dowd, Bush's pollster - analyzed election survey data and realized that there had been a dramatic change in the political landscape: the percentage of undecided or swing voters had dropped to 7 percent or less of the electorate from levels ranging from 34 percent in 1976 to 18 percent in 1996.
Rove and his fellow Republican strategists saw that the "compassionate conservative" approach of the 2000 campaign had, in fact, led to Bush's losing the popular vote and to an electoral college victory based on a 5-4 Supreme Court decision.
"Most voters looked at Bush in very black-and-white terms. They either loved and respected him, or they didn't like him," Dowd concluded. With the dwindling of the swing vote, Bush operatives under Rove's guidance abandoned traditional conciliatory approaches and shifted to a hard-core turnout strategy for 2004. "The media, the voter targeting, the mail - all were based off that strategic decision," Dowd told me after Bush was re-elected in 2004.
The way to heighten turnout among Republican sympathizers - for example, white Christian evangelicals or Glenn Beck acolytes - was to get their blood boiling by focusing on hot-button issues. Alex Gage, an operative hired by Rove soon after the 2000 election, developed and honed techniques to identify voters' "anger points." What made conservative voters angry in 2004 turned out to be, among other things, gay marriage, which abruptly rose to the top of the right-wing agenda - in part because of the 2003 Massachusetts court decision that made such unions legal.
Rove's commitment to this strategy remained steadfast, even in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, which briefly appeared to erase partisan divisions. Sticking to his guns, Rove decided to use the "war on terror" to split the electorate into pro and anti-Bush wings.
Reasoning that with the security of the country at stake voters would be receptive to war as a campaign theme, Rove argued at a Jan. 18, 2002 Republican National Committee meeting that the upcoming campaign should focus on the message that Republicans can "do a better job of keeping our communities and our families safe,'' and that Republicans are better at "protecting and strengthening America's military might." This seemingly innocuous appeal to patriotism was, in fact, the opening volley of an onslaught of campaign ads and speeches using the war on terror as a weapon against Democrats.
It's worth remembering that in 2002, Saxby Chambliss -handpicked by Rove to challenge Senator Max Cleland of Georgia, a decorated Vietnam veteran and a triple amputee - adopted the strategy of using war as his central campaign theme. A now-famous television ad for Chambliss opened with images of Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein, then switched to shots of the severely handicapped Cleland against a backdrop of roll call votes, while the announcer declared:
As America faces terrorists and extremist dictators, Max Cleland runs television ads claiming he has the courage to lead. He says he supports President Bush at every opportunity. But that is not the truth. Since July Max Cleland has voted against President Bush's Homeland Security efforts 11 times. Max Cleland says he has the courage to lead. But the record proves Max Cleland is just misleading.
In fact, Cleland had co-sponsored the legislation creating the Department of Homeland Security and the 11 votes "against President Bush's Homeland Security efforts" were for amendments to allow employees of the new department to join federal unions. Cleland also voted for the invasion of Iraq. It didn't matter. Chambliss won.
Bush won with 51 percent of the vote in 2004. Rove remained the single most influential figure in the Republican Party.
In 2010, after the Supreme Court decision Citizen United v. Federal Election Commission, Rove created two conservative tax-exempt independent expenditure committees, American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, to collect unlimited contributions from Republican donors. The two committees quickly became "the heavy hitters of the multicandidate outside spending groups," according to Open Secrets, which tracks campaign spending. American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS spent $176 million, most of it on the presidential campaign ($99.9 million against Obama and $17.1 in support of Romney) and the rest on behalf of Republican candidates in 13 Senate and 18 House races.
Rove first began to show signs of anxiety that candidates might be going over the edge in 2010 when he faulted Tea Party insurgent Christine O'Donnell, the Republican Senate nominee in Delaware, as "nutty," although he shifted gears when conservative talk show hosts took him to task. He and American Crossroads did, however, support such ideologically fringe candidates as Sharron Angle of Nevada and Ken Buck of Colorado, both of whom lost.
In the 2012 election, Rove's American Crossroads continued to finance divisive commercials attacking Obama, including a spot that showed Obama bowing as he met the Chinese premier while a disembodied voice intones, "The more America borrows from China, the more America will have to bow to China." A second American Crossroads ad tapped anxieties about security:
Your mission is simple, Mr Obama: "Win one last election to gain unchecked flexibility, weaken our defenses, and fundamentally transform the world."
In the aftermath of the 2012 Republican drubbing, Rove doubled back and now appears to be convinced that his party can no longer afford to run knuckle-dragging candidates.
Rove is executing a backflip, turning against the kind of far-out candidates for whom he himself laidthe groundwork.
The Conservative Victory Project has already identified its first target: Steve King, an Iowa congressman gearing up to run for the Senate.
"We're concerned about Steve King's Todd Akin problem," Steven J. Law, president of Rove's American Crossroads, told Jeff Zeleny of The Times earlier this month. "All of the things he's said are going to be hung around his neck."
King, who is now in his 11th year in Congress, has repeatedly stunned friends and foes with his unrestrained rhetoric. He has compared immigrants to dogs and has described illegal immigration as both a "slow-motion terrorist attack" and a "slow-motion holocaust." In 2008, King predicted that terrorists would be "dancing in the streets" if Obama won. He once presented the House with a model of an electrified border fence, telling colleagues "We do that with livestock all the time."
Obama and Rove each created the circumstances they are now fighting - the sequester and the wingnuts - and both are having second thoughts.
One measure of political skill is your flexibility: the ability to successfully reverse direction. Obama and Rove are in the midst of repudiating past errors. The stakes are high: for Obama, the future of the American economy; for Rove, the future of the Republican Party. The coming months will determine whether these two talented political strategists can beat back the tide they unleashed.

        
The Persistence of Racial Resentment
        
Demographics and the 2012 Election
        
Giving Congress Information
        
The Tomorrow Majority
        
Can Republicans Change Their Spots?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LAYOFFS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); CANCER (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); FAMILY (60%) Akin, Todd; American Crossroads; Chambliss, Saxby; Cleland, Max; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; King, Steven A; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Rove, Karl; The Price of Politics (Book); United States Economy; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: American Crossroads; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); KARL ROVE (91%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (74%); W TODD AKIN (73%); STEVE KING (73%) Akin, Todd; Chambliss, Saxby; Cleland, Max; King, Steven A; Obama, Barack; Rove, Karl

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



482 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Silicon Valley and Immigrant Groups Find Common Cause

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Silicon Valley executives, who have long pushed for more visas for foreign-born experts in math and science, are joining forces with immigration advocates, Somini Sengupta reports. 

 BODY:
 Silicon Valley executives, who have long pressed the government to provide more visas for foreign-born math and science brains, are joining forces with an array of immigration groups seeking comprehensive changes in the law,reports Somini Sengupta of The New York Times. 
And as momentum builds in Washington for a broad revamping - President Obama called for reform in his State of the Union address Tuesday - the tech industry has more hope than ever that it will finally achieve its goal: the expanded access to visas that it says is critical to its own continued growth and that of the economy as a whole.
"Real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods, reduce bureaucracy, and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy," Mr. Obama said in Tuesday's State of the Union speech. 
Signs of the industry's stepped-up engagement on the issue are visible everywhere. Prominent executives met with President Obama last week. Start-up founders who rarely abandon their computers have flown across the country to meet with lawmakers. 
 This Tuesday, the Technology CEO Council, an advocacy organization representing companies like Dell, Intel and Motorola, had meetings on Capitol Hill. On Wednesday, Steve Case, a founder of AOL, is scheduled to testify at the first Senate hearing this year on immigration legislation, alongside the head of the deportation agents' union and the leader of a Latino civil rights group.
"The odds of high-skilled passing without comprehensive is close to zero, and the odds of comprehensive passing without high-skilled passing is close to zero," said Robert D. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan research group based in Washington. 

        
Mobile Money for the Next 2 Billion People

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); DEPORTATION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TESTIMONY (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Immigration and Emigration; Visas; Information Technology and Innovation Foundation; Policy

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (84%) Information Technology and Innovation Foundation

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%); STEVE CASE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



483 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Comcast's NBCUniversal Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Comcast is to pay $16.7 billion to buy G.E.'s stake in NBCUniversal. | Large shareholders stiffen opposition to Michael S. Dell's buyout plan. | Apple is engaged in an unusual struggle with a big investor over Apple's huge cash pile. | Regulators are seeking help from banks in an effort to distribute money to homeowners in foreclosure. 

 BODY:
Comcast agreed on Tuesday to pay $16.7 billion to buy General Electric's 49 percent stake in NBCUniversal, speeding up a sales process that was expected to take several more years, Amy Chozick and Brian Stelter report in The New York Times.
The acquisition, which should be completed by the end of March, highlights Comcast's commitment to NBCUniversal's highly profitable cable channels, theme parks and the NBC broadcast network, according to Brian Roberts, chief executive of Comcast. In addition, the growing necessity of owning television content as well as the delivery systems accelerated the decision, Mr. Roberts said. "It's been a very smooth couple of years, and the content continues to get more valuable with new revenue streams," he said. Comcast also said NBCUniversal would buy the NBC studios and offices at 30 Rockefeller Center and the CNBC headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., for a combined price of about $1.4 billion. 
"Comcast, with a conservative, low-profile culture, had clashed with the G.E. approach, according to employees and executives in television," Ms. Chozick and Mr. Stelter write. "Comcast took control of NBCUniversal in early 2011 by acquiring 51 percent of the media company from General Electric. The structure of the deal gave Comcast the option of buying out G.E. in a three-and-a-half to seven-year time frame. In part because of the clash in corporate cultures, television executives said, both sides were eager to accelerate the sale."
RESISTANCE GROWS TO DELL DEAL | Michael S. Dell's plan to take his company private for $24.4 billion is "quickly becoming one of the biggest deals in years to face a shareholder uprising," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. "The opposition to Mr. Dell's buyout effort now includes the mutual fund giant T. Rowe Price, which on Tuesday said that it opposed the offer at its current price of $13.65 a share."
"And Southeastern Asset Management, an investment firm, stepped up its campaign against the Dell takeover bid. The asset manager disclosed on Tuesday that it had hired D. F. King & Company, a proxy solicitation firm, in what may be the first step toward a fight against Dell's board. Southeastern has also hired a longtime mergers lawyer, Dennis Block of Greenberg Traurig, as an outside legal adviser, according to a person briefed on the matter. It has suggested that potential tactics could include a lawsuit or an intervention by a Delaware judge."
APPLE AND THE WAYS OF WALL STREET | Money "makes you do things you don't want to do," goes the adage from the movie "Wall Street." In the case of Apple, money is making the company and a large investor, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, engage in an unusual struggle, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Mr. Einhorn has proposed that Apple issue a special security to return some of its $140 billion cash pile to shareholders. On Tuesday, Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said a lawsuit filed by the hedge fund manager in that effort was a "silly sideshow."
"Yet Apple is not doing itself any favors by trying to do an end run around Mr. Einhorn," Mr. Davidoff writes. "Despite Apple's growing cash pile, the company's value is shrinking. But instead of focusing on making Apple an even better business, shareholders are trying to rescue their bubblelike bets with financial gimmickry, and Apple is engaging in its own gimmicks to defeat them. Even Apple can be consumed by the strange world of Wall Street."
BANKS REVIEWING THEIR OWN FORECLOSURES | "Washington is seeking help from an unlikely group in its effort to distribute billions of dollars to struggling homeowners in foreclosure: the same banks accused of abusing homeowners with shoddy foreclosure practices," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook.
"In doing so, the regulators are trying to speed the process after a flawed, independent foreclosure review delayed relief for millions of borrowers, according to people briefed on the matter. But housing advocates worry that the banks, eager to end the costly process, could take shortcuts as they comb through loan files for errors, potentially diverting aid from the neediest homeowners. Regulators say they will check the work. And banks have already agreed to pay a fixed amount to troubled homeowners, creating another backstop."
"According to officials involved in the process, who spoke anonymously because the matter is not public, the regulators had few alternatives."
ON THE AGENDA | The Credit Suisse financial services forum continues in Miami, with Jonathan Gray, global head of real estate at the Blackstone Group, presenting at 12:15 p.m. Comcast reports earnings before the market opens, and MetLife announces results on Wednesday evening. The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing at 10 a.m. on the Federal Housing Administration's report to Congress. Steve Case, the AOL co-founder, is on CNBC at 9 a.m.
THE BILLIONAIRE TRAVEL DIARIES | Want to travel like a billionaire? A niche travel industry that caters to the world's ultrawealthy is standing ready, provided money is no object, Condé Nast Traveler writes. For the adventurous, there's Calivigny Island in the Caribbean, a personal paradise belonging to a French businessman and his wife that rents for $165,000 a night. More modest accommodations can be found at the Beverly Hills Hotel, which recently added two "presidential bungalows" that go for $18,150 a night each. "The word no is not part of my vocabulary because the impossible today may be probable tomorrow," said the travel agent Jody Bear, of Bear & Bear in New York.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ryanair Indicates Regulators Will Reject Aer Lingus Deal | The discount European airline Ryanair said it plans to appeal should regulators block its bid for Aer Lingus. DealBook »
Nexen Secures U.S. Approval of Its Sale to Cnooc | Nexen has received the last regulatory approval needed for its $15 billion sale to the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, after the Obama administration declared the deal free from national security concerns. DealBook »
Deal Speculation Surrounds Vodafone's German Unit | A German magazine reported that the German unit of Vodafone was planning to buy Kabel Deutschland, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Rosneft Approves Financing for Purchase of TNK-BP Stake | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Societe Generale to Restructure After 4th-Quarter Loss | The French bank posted a net loss of $640 million in the last three months of 2012, and announced a restructuring plan to cut costs and simplify its operations. DealBook »
ING Plans to Cut 2,400 Jobs | The Dutch financial services firm ING "reported profit that missed analysts' estimates on restructuring expenses as it announced 1,400 more job cuts in the Netherlands and 1,000 in Belgium," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Top UBS Executive Is to Depart | Carsten Kengeter, former head of the investment bank of UBS, is resigning from the Swiss banking giant. DealBook »
Goldman's C.E.O. Dismisses Talk of Retirement | "The combination of this being who I am and what I do and having absolutely no other interests makes me think this is what I'll be doing for a while," Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs told Bloomberg TV. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Searching for Deeper Meaning in a Prominent Beard | "Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein has been sporting a beard lately, which has some people asking: is he on his way out?" writes Lauren Tara LaCapra in a blog post for Reuters. But a Goldman spokesman, Jake Siewert, said, "Sometimes a beard is just a beard." REUTERS
Goldman Executive Predicts Higher Returns for the Industry | Harvey M. Schwartz, Goldman Sachs's chief financial officer, said he expected the average return on equity in the banking industry would rise above 12 percent as firms scale back certain businesses, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Lehmanites at Barclays, Unpleasant Memories | With Barclays planning to cut 3,700 more jobs, "some of the former Lehman employees at Barclays say they feel like they are back on a roller-coaster ride of uncertainty," Quartz writes. QUARTZ
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billionaire Turns to Investing in Distressed Homes | The billionaire B. Wayne Hughes "is buying thousands of houses to rent," making his firm "the second-biggest owner of single-family rentals after Stephen Schwarzman's Blackstone Group," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
When the Landlord Is From Wall Street | The New Republic looks at the trend of investment firms buying foreclosed homes to rent them out, writing, "It's the next Wall Street gold rush." NEW REPUBLIC
Carlyle Names Head of Government Affairs | Carlyle has hired Barrett Karr, majority staff director of a House committee, to lead its United States government affairs. DealBook »
HEDGE FUNDS »
Few Winners in the Herbalife Fight | With William A. Ackman and Daniel S. Loeb taking opposite bets regarding Herbalife, "investors in the funds, as a group, became the losers because of the way hedge fund compensation works," Steven N. Kaplan writes in Bloomberg View. BLOOMBERG VIEW
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
SeaWorld Picks N.Y.S.E. for Its Listing | SeaWorld Entertainment, which is backed by the Blackstone Group, plans to hold its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange, it said on Tuesday. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Silicon Valley Executives Push for Overhaul of Immigration Laws | The New York Times reports: "Silicon Valley executives, who have long pressed the government to provide more visas for foreign-born math and science brains, are joining forces with an array of immigration groups seeking comprehensive changes in the law. And as momentum builds in Washington for a broad revamping, the tech industry has more hope than ever that it will finally achieve its goal: the expanded access to visas that it says is critical to its own continued growth and that of the economy as a whole." NEW YORK TIMES
Music Service Takes Aim at Bigger Rival, Pandora | A small player in the digital music business, Slacker, is releasing an advertisement that is critical of Pandora. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Prospect of British Exit From European Union Is Met With Skepticism | The idea that Britain might be better off outside the European Union has been embraced by Prime Minister David Cameron and some in his party, but according to opinion polls, it is "by no means widely accepted by the majority of voters," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Automatically Deleted E-Mails in the SAC Case | Bloomberg News reports: "The federal investigation of insider trading by SAC Capital Advisors LP and its founder, Steven A. Cohen, has been hampered by a lack of extensive e-mail evidence. One reason: During the period of time at the heart of the probe, July 2008, SAC automatically deleted its e-mails." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Swiss Banks Must Hold Additional Capital Against Real Estate | Bloomberg News reports: "The Swiss government ordered banks to hold additional capital as a buffer against risks posed by the country's biggest property boom in two decades." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FORECLOSURE (85%); MUTUAL FUNDS (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (72%); LITIGATION (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (81%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); DF KING & CO INC (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (77%); MICHAEL DELL (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



484 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Comcast's NBCUniversal Deal

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Comcast is to pay $16.7 billion to buy G.E.'s stake in NBCUniversal. | Large shareholders stiffen opposition to Michael S. Dell's buyout plan. | Apple is engaged in an unusual struggle with a big investor over Apple's huge cash pile. | Regulators are seeking help from banks in an effort to distribute money to homeowners in foreclosure. 

 BODY:
Comcast agreed on Tuesday to pay $16.7 billion to buy General Electric's 49 percent stake in NBCUniversal, speeding up a sales process that was expected to take several more years, Amy Chozick and Brian Stelter report in The New York Times.
The acquisition, which should be completed by the end of March, highlights Comcast's commitment to NBCUniversal's highly profitable cable channels, theme parks and the NBC broadcast network, according to Brian Roberts, chief executive of Comcast. In addition, the growing necessity of owning television content as well as the delivery systems accelerated the decision, Mr. Roberts said. "It's been a very smooth couple of years, and the content continues to get more valuable with new revenue streams," he said. Comcast also said NBCUniversal would buy the NBC studios and offices at 30 Rockefeller Plaza and the CNBC headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., for a combined price of about $1.4 billion. 
"Comcast, with a conservative, low-profile culture, had clashed with the G.E. approach, according to employees and executives in television," Ms. Chozick and Mr. Stelter write. "Comcast took control of NBCUniversal in early 2011 by acquiring 51 percent of the media company from General Electric. The structure of the deal gave Comcast the option of buying out G.E. in a three-and-a-half to seven-year time frame. In part because of the clash in corporate cultures, television executives said, both sides were eager to accelerate the sale."
RESISTANCE GROWS TO DELL DEAL | Michael S. Dell's plan to take his company private for $24.4 billion is "quickly becoming one of the biggest deals in years to face a shareholder uprising," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. "The opposition to Mr. Dell's buyout effort now includes the mutual fund giant T. Rowe Price, which on Tuesday said that it opposed the offer at its current price of $13.65 a share."
"And Southeastern Asset Management, an investment firm, stepped up its campaign against the Dell takeover bid. The asset manager disclosed on Tuesday that it had hired D. F. King & Company, a proxy solicitation firm, in what may be the first step toward a fight against Dell's board. Southeastern has also hired a longtime mergers lawyer, Dennis Block of Greenberg Traurig, as an outside legal adviser, according to a person briefed on the matter. It has suggested that potential tactics could include a lawsuit or an intervention by a Delaware judge."
APPLE AND THE WAYS OF WALL STREET | Money "makes you do things you don't want to do," goes the adage from the movie "Wall Street." In the case of Apple, money is making the company and a large investor, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, engage in an unusual struggle, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Mr. Einhorn has proposed that Apple issue a special security to return some of its $140 billion cash pile to shareholders. On Tuesday, Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said a lawsuit filed by the hedge fund manager in that effort was a "silly sideshow."
"Yet Apple is not doing itself any favors by trying to do an end run around Mr. Einhorn," Mr. Davidoff writes. "Despite Apple's growing cash pile, the company's value is shrinking. But instead of focusing on making Apple an even better business, shareholders are trying to rescue their bubblelike bets with financial gimmickry, and Apple is engaging in its own gimmicks to defeat them. Even Apple can be consumed by the strange world of Wall Street."
BANKS REVIEWING THEIR OWN FORECLOSURES | "Washington is seeking help from an unlikely group in its effort to distribute billions of dollars to struggling homeowners in foreclosure: the same banks accused of abusing homeowners with shoddy foreclosure practices," Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook.
"In doing so, the regulators are trying to speed the process after a flawed, independent foreclosure review delayed relief for millions of borrowers, according to people briefed on the matter. But housing advocates worry that the banks, eager to end the costly process, could take shortcuts as they comb through loan files for errors, potentially diverting aid from the neediest homeowners. Regulators say they will check the work. And banks have already agreed to pay a fixed amount to troubled homeowners, creating another backstop."
"According to officials involved in the process, who spoke anonymously because the matter is not public, the regulators had few alternatives."
ON THE AGENDA | The Credit Suisse financial services forum continues in Miami, with Jonathan Gray, global head of real estate at the Blackstone Group, presenting at 12:15 p.m. Comcast reports earnings before the market opens, and MetLife announces results on Wednesday evening. The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing at 10 a.m. on the Federal Housing Administration's report to Congress. Steve Case, the AOL co-founder, is on CNBC at 9 a.m.
THE BILLIONAIRE TRAVEL DIARIES | Want to travel like a billionaire? A niche travel industry that caters to the world's ultrawealthy is standing ready, provided money is no object, Condé Nast Traveler writes. For the adventurous, there's Calivigny Island in the Caribbean, a personal paradise belonging to a French businessman and his wife that rents for $165,000 a night. More modest accommodations can be found at the Beverly Hills Hotel, which recently added two "presidential bungalows" that go for $18,150 a night each. "The word no is not part of my vocabulary because the impossible today may be probable tomorrow," said the travel agent Jody Bear, of Bear & Bear in New York.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Ryanair Indicates Regulators Will Reject Aer Lingus Deal | The discount European airline Ryanair said it plans to appeal should regulators block its bid for Aer Lingus. DealBook »
Nexen Secures U.S. Approval of Its Sale to Cnooc | Nexen has received the last regulatory approval needed for its $15 billion sale to the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, after the Obama administration declared the deal free from national security concerns. DealBook »
Deal Speculation Surrounds Vodafone's German Unit | A German magazine reported that the German unit of Vodafone was planning to buy Kabel Deutschland, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Rosneft Approves Financing for Purchase of TNK-BP Stake | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Societe Generale to Restructure After 4th-Quarter Loss | The French bank posted a net loss of $640 million in the last three months of 2012, and announced a restructuring plan to cut costs and simplify its operations. DealBook »
ING Plans to Cut 2,400 Jobs | The Dutch financial services firm ING "reported profit that missed analysts' estimates on restructuring expenses as it announced 1,400 more job cuts in the Netherlands and 1,000 in Belgium," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Top UBS Executive Is to Depart | Carsten Kengeter, former head of the investment bank of UBS, is resigning from the Swiss banking giant. DealBook »
Goldman's C.E.O. Dismisses Talk of Retirement | "The combination of this being who I am and what I do and having absolutely no other interests makes me think this is what I'll be doing for a while," Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs told Bloomberg TV. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Searching for Deeper Meaning in a Prominent Beard | "Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein has been sporting a beard lately, which has some people asking: is he on his way out?" writes Lauren Tara LaCapra in a blog post for Reuters. But a Goldman spokesman, Jake Siewert, said, "Sometimes a beard is just a beard." REUTERS
Goldman Executive Predicts Higher Returns for the Industry | Harvey M. Schwartz, Goldman Sachs's chief financial officer, said he expected the average return on equity in the banking industry would rise above 12 percent as firms scale back certain businesses, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Lehmanites at Barclays, Unpleasant Memories | With Barclays planning to cut 3,700 more jobs, "some of the former Lehman employees at Barclays say they feel like they are back on a roller-coaster ride of uncertainty," Quartz writes. QUARTZ
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billionaire Turns to Investing in Distressed Homes | The billionaire B. Wayne Hughes "is buying thousands of houses to rent," making his firm "the second-biggest owner of single-family rentals after Stephen Schwarzman's Blackstone Group," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
When the Landlord Is From Wall Street | The New Republic looks at the trend of investment firms buying foreclosed homes to rent them out, writing, "It's the next Wall Street gold rush." NEW REPUBLIC
Carlyle Names Head of Government Affairs | Carlyle has hired Barrett Karr, majority staff director of a House committee, to lead its United States government affairs. DealBook »
HEDGE FUNDS »
Few Winners in the Herbalife Fight | With William A. Ackman and Daniel S. Loeb taking opposite bets regarding Herbalife, "investors in the funds, as a group, became the losers because of the way hedge fund compensation works," Steven N. Kaplan writes in Bloomberg View. BLOOMBERG VIEW
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
SeaWorld Picks N.Y.S.E. for Its Listing | SeaWorld Entertainment, which is backed by the Blackstone Group, plans to hold its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange, it said on Tuesday. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Silicon Valley Executives Push for Overhaul of Immigration Laws | The New York Times reports: "Silicon Valley executives, who have long pressed the government to provide more visas for foreign-born math and science brains, are joining forces with an array of immigration groups seeking comprehensive changes in the law. And as momentum builds in Washington for a broad revamping, the tech industry has more hope than ever that it will finally achieve its goal: the expanded access to visas that it says is critical to its own continued growth and that of the economy as a whole." NEW YORK TIMES
Music Service Takes Aim at Bigger Rival, Pandora | A small player in the digital music business, Slacker, is releasing an advertisement that is critical of Pandora. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Prospect of British Exit From European Union Is Met With Skepticism | The idea that Britain might be better off outside the European Union has been embraced by Prime Minister David Cameron and some in his party, but according to opinion polls, it is "by no means widely accepted by the majority of voters," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Automatically Deleted E-Mails in the SAC Case | Bloomberg News reports: "The federal investigation of insider trading by SAC Capital Advisors LP and its founder, Steven A. Cohen, has been hampered by a lack of extensive e-mail evidence. One reason: During the period of time at the heart of the probe, July 2008, SAC automatically deleted its e-mails." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Swiss Banks Must Hold Additional Capital Against Real Estate | Bloomberg News reports: "The Swiss government ordered banks to hold additional capital as a buffer against risks posed by the country's biggest property boom in two decades." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); FORECLOSURE (85%); MUTUAL FUNDS (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (72%); LITIGATION (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (81%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); DF KING & CO INC (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (77%); MICHAEL DELL (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013



485 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Criticizes Budget Plan Of Governor

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
New York State's comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, questioned parts of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's budget proposal on Wednesday, asserting that the spending plan relied on optimistic economic projections and would burden the state with even greater debt.
Over all, Mr. DiNapoli said, the $142.6 billion budget proposal, which Mr. Cuomo unveiled last month, deserved praise for restraining state spending for the third conservative year and putting the state on steadier financial footing in the long term. 
But the comptroller's office raised concerns that the budget depended on federal aid that might not come to fruition, including $1.1 billion in Medicaid reimbursements, and counted on wage and job growth producing significant increases in tax collections.
The budget, Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement, ''increases our debt burden and relies on temporary actions that will get us through short-term problems but pushes off some hard choices for another day.''
''Clearly the state is facing difficult issues,'' he added, ''but provisions of this budget need to be openly discussed by the Legislature so taxpayers know how resources are being used.''
Some of the issues cited by the comptroller -- who, like Mr. Cuomo, is a Democrat -- were familiar. The comptroller's office said that elements of the budget proposal raised ''significant concerns regarding transparency and accountability'' by allowing Mr. Cuomo to spend money without the Legislature's approval. A number of lawmakers criticized the governor during last year's budget process for taking similar steps, accusing him of trying to sidestep legislators.
In an 81-page report, the comptroller's office questioned what it described as a reliance on one-time revenue in Mr. Cuomo's proposal, which is for the fiscal year that begins April 1. For example, it cited $1.75 billion that the governor wants to transfer from the State Insurance Fund over the next four years for other uses.
The report also questioned Mr. Cuomo's approach to borrowing. For example, it faulted the governor for what it described as a greater reliance by the state on backdoor borrowing via the state's public authorities, whose bonding authorization would be increased by $3.3 billion in the next fiscal year, a substantially larger increase than the year before. And it raised concerns about a proposal to change the way the State University of New York financed dormitories so that its debt service would not be counted against the state's debt cap.
The state budget director, Robert L. Megna, disputed the comptroller's contentions and said that the Division of the Budget had confidence in its revenue projections. ''We believe the comptroller's staff did him a disservice on some of the comments that were made in this report, which we think misrepresent or just totally get wrong some of the things that are in the budget,'' Mr. Megna said in a call with reporters.
Asked about the comptroller's concerns about debt, Mr. Megna said that the state planned to keep its borrowing roughly flat over the next five years, and that the money from the State Insurance Fund would allow the state to retire existing high-interest debt and pay for new capital projects with cash instead of debt. He added that what the comptroller derided as backdoor borrowing was a routine practice.
''For the comptroller to say that somehow this was a newly invented procedure for us to go out and borrow money is, I think, again a little bit of a misrepresentation,'' Mr. Megna said.
Mr. DiNapoli's office later said it stood by its critique of the budget proposal. A deputy comptroller, Robert B. Ward, described Mr. Megna's reaction as ''puzzling,'' and added, ''His comments regarding our staff were off base and miss the point.''
Mr. DiNapoli's office is still reviewing one of the most contentious parts of Mr. Cuomo's budget proposal, a measure that would allow local governments to defer a portion of their pension costs. The proposal would need Mr. DiNapoli's approval; the report released Wednesday noted only that the comptroller ''has expressed concern'' about the governor's plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MEDICAID (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



486 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: The Real Obama

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Is this the real Barack Obama? I hope so. I like this one.
The president used Tuesday's State of the Union address to detail a vision of America's future, and his second term, in which the country is not in perpetual war, government plays an expansive role, Congressional obstruction is named and shamed and he is bold and unapologetically progressive.
This is how politicians who needn't worry about re-election look: more like themselves. 
The speech was a full-throated rebuke and disavowal of the conservative argument that government must shrink and cower. It was a rebuke of the economic theory that a government's role in revival is to retreat and lift regulations. It was an embrace of the country's growth and diversity and an elevation of those down on their luck. And it was a bring-it-on gesture to the gun lobby and the politicians who fear it.
He aimed much of the speech at a still-struggling middle class, but it was also an open appeal to the poor -- those with jobs and without.
He proposed an increase in the federal minimum wage -- from $7.25 an hour to $9 -- and to ''tie the minimum wage to the cost of living, so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on.''
And in what I thought was commendable for a president who has taken some knocks -- including from me -- for not focusing enough on the poor, he said:
''Tonight, let's also recognize that there are communities in this country where no matter how hard you work, it is virtually impossible to get ahead. Factory towns decimated from years of plants packing up. Inescapable pockets of poverty, urban and rural, where young adults are still fighting for their first job. America is not a place where chance of birth or circumstance should decide our destiny. And that is why we need to build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class for all who are willing to climb them.''
He proposed a revamping of our educational system, from universal ''high quality preschool'' to a redesign of high schools ''so they better equip graduates for the demands of a high-tech economy'' and changing the Higher Education Act ''so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid.''
Many of the president's plans will need to be fleshed out. Some will require Congressional action. But some of what the president proposed can be accomplished through executive action. And this president made clear once again that he would act where he could if Congress refused to act.
For instance, he said: ''I urge this Congress to get together, pursue a bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will. I will direct my Cabinet to come up with executive actions we can take, now and in the future, to reduce pollution, prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change, and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy.''
And the president defied political cowards, some in his own party, and called for a vote on gun control legislation, including an assault weapons ban.
The president said: ''It has been two months since Newtown. I know this is not the first time this country has debated how to reduce gun violence. But this time is different. Overwhelming majorities of Americans -- Americans who believe in the Second Amendment -- have come together around common-sense reform -- like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun. Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals. Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets, because these police chiefs, they are tired of seeing their guys and gals being outgunned. Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress. If you want to vote no, that's your choice. But these proposals deserve a vote. Because in the two months since Newtown, more than a thousand birthdays, graduations, and anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun.''
The president dedicated an extraordinary amount of time to the issue of gun control, and it was the most moving and effective part of the speech. He recognized the hard politics of the issue, but still issued the challenge. He knows well that there are vulnerable Democratic senators in red states who are wary of such a vote, but the president still stood up for what he and most Americans know.
The president said: ''This time is different.''
I say: this president seems different. He seems more confident and sure. He seems aware of the animus that greets him, but not cowed by it.
He seems to have decided to move beyond his political opponents and the pundits and talk directly to the American people. It seems a smart tactical turn: running away from the circus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); COST OF LIVING (74%); EDUCATION LAW (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); FIREARMS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



487 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Adapting to a New Tech Landscape Challenges Cisco

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Cisco Systems is trying to pull off one of the toughest tricks in high technology, adapting a big legacy business to a vastly different future.
Cisco emerged from a pack of computer networking companies in the 1990s during the rise of the Internet and briefly became the most valuable company in the world. It still dominates the market for computer networking hardware, controlling 85 percent or more of some businesses.
Increasingly, however, customers want their technology suppliers to offer them sophisticated services, not just equipment, as they seek to better manage an Internet that connects not just computers, but also things like sensors and mobile devices. 
Like other tech giants, including Microsoft and Dell, Cisco is struggling to adapt to this new world.
On Wednesday, the company reported fiscal second-quarter earnings that grew 44 percent. Although that was more than Wall Street expected, John Chambers, the chief executive, warned of ''a challenging economic environment.''
Erik Suppiger, an analyst with JMP Securities in San Francisco, said Cisco ''did a good job managing costs, and keeping their margins up, but there's a lot of concern about what they can do to build revenue.''
''Building a cloud and wireless business eats into your traditional product lines,'' he said. ''If you have a wireless laptop, you don't need a desktop computer connected to your office network.''
Mr. Chambers, who has led Cisco for 18 years, is well aware of that problem, and he has spent much of the last decade devising ways to adapt Cisco. In his latest reinvention, he has cut much of its consumer business, and has refocused on selling large, complex products and services for telecommunications firms, big business and governments.
Cisco's latest ad campaign extols ''the Internet of Everything,'' in which even trees are connected to scientists, to solve global warming, and cars talk to traffic lights.
''We've broken away from the traditional players,'' Mr. Chambers said in an interview after the results were announced. ''The pipeline is starting to fill.''
There are indeed signs of progress, though it is unclear whether Cisco will prevail before Mr. Chambers retires in what he says will be two to four years. What may be his greatest task -- building a software and services business distinct from its existing hardware business -- is still in its early phase.
Cisco does appear to be garnering the sales and cash for such a move, however. As of Jan. 26, Cisco had a cash pile of over $46 billion, and some of the highest gross profit margins in high tech.
In the second quarter, Cisco, which is based in San Jose, Calif., had net income of $3.14 billion, or 59 cents a share compared with $2.18 billion, or 40 cents. Revenue rose 5 percent, to $12.18 billion. Excluding certain items, Cisco earned 51 cents. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected Cisco to make 48 cents a share, on revenue of $12.06 billion.
Despite the better-than-expected performance, Cisco shares retreated slightly in after-hours trading.
While sales in Europe were down 6 percent, Cisco's sales grew in both Asia and the Americas. Newer businesses like video and cloud computing systems did well. Revenue from services, Mr. Chambers said, was now almost evenly divided between money from planning and installing traditional networks, and higher-value consulting contracts.
Mr. Chambers called video ''the most intriguing area, not just because it will be 90 to 98 percent of the load'' of data packets on the Internet. ''It changes business, health care, government, everything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (72%); HARDWARE STORES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); JMP GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); JMP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



488 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Tenacious Playwright Is Creating His Moment

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Fresh out of New York University in 2007 and anxious about his prospects as an actor, Paul Downs Colaizzo was too poor to afford therapy, so he opted for ''the $12.95 version'' -- self-help books. He read dozens of them, absorbing mantras like ''don't take anything personally'' and ''be impeccable with your word,'' and developing the youthful moxie that has led to his unexpected emergence as an Off Broadway playwright.
''A lot of us are secretly scared, for whatever reason, and so we get in our own way,'' Mr. Colaizzo said. ''But if you really want something, you have to ask for it.''
Simple, sure, but Mr. Colaizzo's ability to combine nerve with networking -- for instance cultivating a relationship with the Obie-winning director David Cromer on a sidewalk, over Facebook and at a stage door -- has paid off far more than his B.F.A. has. 
This month he is making his New York debut at MCC Theater as the author of the collegiate drama ''Really Really,'' starring Zosia Mamet (Shoshanna on the HBO's ''Girls'') and directed by Mr. Cromer, best known for an acclaimed revival of ''Our Town.'' Mr. Colaizzo has several more plays in his MacBook Pro and is developing scripts for television.
It is a considerable change from four years ago, when he was renting an illegal apartment and collecting unemployment. Such relentless determination is what Mr. Colaizzo examines with ferocity in ''Really Really.''
While the plot focuses on a brutal sexual allegation and its consequences for several friends, the play more broadly considers the morality of college students in the aftermath of the Great Recession. As one of the female students, Grace, tells a conference of fellow future leaders, their ''secret weapon'' is tenacity. ''In any situation,'' she says, ''what can I do to get what I want?''
''Really Really'' may well divide and even disturb some audience members. But Mr. Colaizzo's inspirations for the play were relatively benign, like a friend's refusal to help him carry bags of clothes because doing the favor wasn't in the friend's self-interest. He was also gripped by the ambiguities surrounding an overly friendly priest in John Patrick Shanley's play ''Doubt,'' as well as by books about ''Generation Me'' Americans.
Mr. Colaizzo hardly comes across as ruthless as his characters, not with his toothy grin and open face, his years as a drum major and an admirer of ''Grease 2.'' (''He's a total geek,'' Mr. Cromer said.) But he undoubtedly shares some of their drive in his pursuit of playwriting, a field where few 27-year-olds make the splash Off Broadway that he is.
''Going on unemployment was a total low point for me, but it was also the point when I promised myself I'd write every day from 9 to 5,'' he said, sitting on the only couch in the boxy apartment he shares with two roommates on the Upper West Side. ''I tried to make the most out of every situation that came along.''
He learned to do so in childhood, as his parents moved through four states by the time he was 11 because of his father's job with U.P.S. He adjusted to new schools by strictly following rules, preferring to sit next to the other quiet kids, and he dove into acting lessons wherever he found them. He also had an entrepreneurial spirit: One Easter he asked for a water cooler as a gift because he wanted to be a businessman, and by high school he was designing Web sites for companies around Alpharetta, Ga., where his family finally settled.
After college he wrote the first draft of ''Really Really'' in the back of a passenger van while traveling the East Coast in a touring production of ''Great Expectations.'' And as an assistant company manager on the Broadway musical ''Xanadu'' he met its book writer, Douglas Carter Beane -- an acquaintanceship that led to their collaboration on the ''Cubby Bernstein'' Web series (a spoof of the Tony Awards campaign season) and again on the musical ''Sister Act.'' Mr. Beane hired Mr. Colaizzo as his typist but eventually gave him a writing credit for churning out countless one-liners like ''puttin' the sis back in Genesis.''
''He's a quick, instinctual writer who knows the way people talk, which you can't teach,'' said Mr. Beane, who has become a popular mentor for aspiring writers. ''I wouldn't have thought that someone who can write a real old-school joke like Paul could also write something like Neil LaBute on a bad day.''
Mr. Colaizzo's networking also included sending an e-mail, cold, to the theater marketing firm Spotco and landing a four-month job, and later -- crucially -- asking friends at the Olney Theater Center in Maryland (where he had performed as Perchik in ''Fiddler on the Roof'') to sponsor ''Really Really'' in a Washington play-reading festival.
The Signature Theater in Arlington, Va., ended up producing the premiere of ''Really Really'' last winter, and the reviews in The Washington Post and elsewhere were so strong that two New York producers reached out to Mr. Colaizzo about mounting the play on Broadway. He declined to go into the details but said he opted to have the play produced Off Broadway with an eye toward his long-term career interests.
''I've spent time learning different parts of the industry, and I want to be working in this industry for a while,'' Mr. Colaizzo said. ''To me MCC Theater is the right place right now for this play.''
MCC chose to produce it because of its provocative nature and potential to ignite conversation and debate, according to one of its artistic directors, Bernard Telsey. (The play is in previews at the Lucille Lortel Theater and is scheduled to open on Tuesday.) Mr. Cromer too said he wanted to direct the play because of ''its unwillingness to settle on easy answers to the situation.''
''As I started reading it I assumed that I was supposed to side with a certain character, or decide who was right and who was wrong,'' Mr. Cromer said. ''I found myself agreeing and then disagreeing with the same character, and that was exciting.''
The two men became friends four years ago, early in the run of ''Our Town,'' after Mr. Colaizzo spotted Mr. Cromer on the Upper West Side and shouted his name, and then went into detail praising the production. Later, via Facebook, he asked Mr. Cromer to read another of his plays, ''Little Gives,'' then brought it downtown to the stage door of the ''Our Town'' theater.
Now they have an easy rapport. Batting around ideas in the rehearsal room for ''Really Really'' this winter Mr. Colaizzo wrote a couple of new lines of dialogue on the fly when Mr. Cromer found an exchange too vague.
''I was afraid going into this that I would turn meek around David in the rehearsal room,'' Mr. Colaizzo said, ''so I set a ground rule at the start: that I would never get him lunch, even when I was going out to get my own lunch, because I didn't want to feel like an assistant. David is a hero of mine, like Doug is, but I've also now become an artist in my own right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Downs Colaizzo (C1)
 Zosia Mamet, left, and Lauren Culpepper in Paul Downs Colaizzo's play ''Really, Really'' at the Lucille Lortel Theater in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



489 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: The State Of the 4-Year-Olds

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is on book leave.

 BODY:
One of the big moments of the State of the Union address was President Obama's call for ''high-quality preschool'' for 4-year-olds.
Nobody was happier at the idea than Walter Mondale, the former vice president. ''This is going to be wonderful,'' he said in a phone conversation. His delight was sort of inspiring. If I had been down the road Mondale has traveled, my mood would have been a little darker.
In 1971, when he was a senator, Mondale led the Congressional drive to make quality preschool education available to every family in the United States that wanted it. Everybody. The federal government would set standards and provide backup services like meals and medical and dental checkups. Tuition would depend on the family's ability to pay. 
And it passed! Then Richard Nixon vetoed it, claiming Congress was proposing ''communal approaches to child rearing.'' Now, 42 years later, working parents of every economic level scramble madly to find quality programs for their preschoolers, while the waiting lines for poor families looking for subsidized programs stretch on into infinity.
And President Obama is trying, against great odds, to do something for 4-year-olds.
People, think about this for a minute. We have no bigger crisis as a nation than the class barrier. We're near the bottom of the industrialized world when it comes to upward mobility. A child born to poor parents has a pathetic chance of growing up to be anything but poor. This isn't the way things were supposed to be in the United States. But here we are.
Would it be different if all the children born over the last 40 years had been given access to top-quality early education -- programs that not only kept them safe while their parents worked, but gave them the language and reasoning skills that wealthy families pass on as a matter of course?
We'll never know.
Mondale's Comprehensive Child Development Act was a bipartisan bill, which passed 63 to 17 in the Senate. It was an entitlement, and, if it had become law, it would have been one entitlement for little children in a world where most of the money goes to the elderly.
''We came up with a lot of proposals, but the one we were most excited about was early childhood education. Everything we learned firmed up the view this really works,'' said Mondale.
The destruction of his bill was one of the earliest victories of the new right. ''The federal government should not be in the business of raising America's children. It was a political and ideological ideal of great importance,'' Pat Buchanan once told me. He was working at the White House when the bill reached Nixon's desk, and he helped write the veto message. He spoke about this achievement with great pride.
The saga of the demise of the Comprehensive Child Development Act is an excellent explanation of why President Obama was prepared to go through so much political trauma to pass health care reform, even when many of his own party members were begging him to drop back, do something less earth-shaking and wait for a better moment.
The better moment might never come.
After Gerald Ford became president, the early childhood education bill's supporters tried to resurrect the plan. They had hardly done anything besides agree that they probably ought to wait until after the 1976 election, when they were hit with a political tsunami. Members of Congress started getting hundreds and hundreds -- sometimes thousands and thousands -- of hysterical letters accusing them of plotting to destroy the American family.
This was before constituent e-mail, when that kind of outpouring was shocking, particularly since a number of the writers seemed to believe that Congress was plotting to allow children to organize labor unions and sue their parents for making them do chores.
''That was really the beginning of the Tea Party. The right wing started to turn on this thing viciously,'' said Mondale. ''They said it was a socialist scheme. They were really pounding the members of Congress and a lot of people got cold feet.''
Nobody really knew where it was all coming from. A reporter for The Houston Chronicle traced the hysteria back to a man in Kansas who had written the leaflet, based on information he'd received from a revival in Missouri, which he told the reporter he had since learned was almost all completely wrong.
But that was it. Later, people would begin proposing modest preschool programs, particularly for the offspring of poor women who were required to work after the repeal of welfare entitlements in the Clinton years. But there would never again be a serious attempt to guarantee all American families access to quality early education and after-school programs.
The president proposes doing something for 4-year-olds. This is a great idea. Mondale is certainly enthusiastic. But still.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); VETO (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POOR POPULATION (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



490 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Higher Taxes Hold Retail Sales to a Slight Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Retail sales barely rose in January as tax increases and higher gasoline prices restrained spending, setting up the economy for only modest growth in the first quarter. 
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that retail sales edged up 0.1 percent after a 0.5 percent rise in December.
The small increase suggested that the expiration of a two-percentage-point payroll tax cut on Jan. 1 and higher tax rates for wealthier Americans were weighing on the economy.
Still, economists said consumer spending was unlikely to buckle given rising home values, moderate job growth and rallying stock market prices.
''We are starting to see the impact of higher taxes, but we have a positive wealth effect from increasing house prices and a boost from equities,'' said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Bank. ''My expectation is that consumers are able to continue to increase spending, but only moderately.''
Core sales, which exclude automobiles, gasoline and building materials and correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product, ticked up 0.1 percent.
Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the American economy, grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter. That helped to soften the blow to the economy from slower inventory accumulation and sharp cuts in military spending.
The government said last month that economic output slipped at a 0.1 percent rate in the final three months of 2012.
However, the retail sales report showed core sales were a bit stronger in November and December than previously reported. In addition, businesses, excluding auto dealerships, accumulated slightly more inventory in December than earlier thought.
Taken together with a smaller trade deficit in December, the data suggested the government would raise its estimate for fourth-quarter gross domestic product when it publishes a revision later this month. Even so, the economy most likely grew at a rate under 1 percent in the fourth quarter, economists said.
Growth in consumer spending is expected to retreat from the pace of the fourth quarter as households adjust to smaller paychecks and higher gasoline prices. Prices at the pump have increased 30 cents so far this year.
Estimates of consumer spending growth in the first quarter currently range from 0.7 percent to 1.8 percent.
Some economists were encouraged that consumers had maintained purchases, though at a slow pace, despite a reduction in their disposable incomes.
''By no means are we completely out of the woods when it comes to the impact of higher taxes,'' said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''Evidence from past episodes suggests it could take up to two quarters for spending to fully adjust to new tax realities.''
A softer pace of consumer spending is expected to limit G.D.P. growth to a 1.8 percent rate this quarter, according to a Reuters poll of economists. For the year as a whole, economists expect growth of just 2.3 percent.
A separate report from the Labor Department showed that higher oil prices helped push up the cost of imported goods by 0.6 percent last month. Import prices had fallen by 0.5 percent in December.
Still, nonpetroleum import prices edged up just 0.1 percent in January and have risen just 0.2 percent over the last year, showing a lack of broad inflation pressure.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted.
 Business Inventories and Sales (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STATISTICS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); NEW CAR DEALERS (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (60%); JPM (LSE) (60%); 8634 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



491 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: 'Bolero' on Instruments Ravel Never Dreamed Of

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
During the course of Ravel's haunting ''Bolero,'' the slinky, repeated theme is played in turn by a flute, a clarinet, a saxophone and more. But Ravel, a master of orchestration, would surely have been fascinated to hear the tune played on Tuesday night at Carnegie Hall by a rubab, the national instrument of Afghanistan, plucked like a lute to produce a sound both tender and tart.
Or by a long-necked sitar, an ancient instrument central to Indo-Afghan musical traditions, which proved perfect for bringing out a jazzy twang in the ''Bolero'' melody. Or, best of all, the sarod, another plucked Afghan instrument, like a rubab but fretless so that the performer on this night could bend the blue-notes of the melody with the yearning of a Billie Holiday. 
The occasion was an inspiring concert by Ensembles of Afghanistan National Institute of Music, presented by that country's Education Ministry. Founded and directed by Ahmad Sarmast, a scholar of Afghan and Central Asian music, the institute is a free-tuition school in Kabul where young Afghan musicians from all backgrounds, regardless of ethnicity or gender, are taught both traditional Afghan and Western classical music. The program, which has nurtured disadvantaged children, including orphans and street hawkers, is run by the Education Ministry, which today instructs some 10 million students, 40 percent of them girls.
With support from the United States Department of State, the World Bank and other sponsors, this tour is presenting nearly 50 Afghan musicians, ages 10 to 21, along with some of their teachers. The Carnegie Hall program featured the Afghan Youth Orchestra, which has been in operation for only two years, led by the American violinist, conductor and composer William Harvey, who lives and teaches in Kabul. Mr. Harvey, 30, was among the first roster of postgraduate musicians admitted to the successful program run by Carnegie Hall and the Juilliard School, the Academy. One of the goals of that program is to get gifted Juilliard musicians to give back to their communities. Mr. Harvey has taken that mission to Afghanistan.
It was his arrangement of Ravel's ''Bolero,'' somewhat shortened and rescored for an orchestra that included Afghan instruments, that ended the first half of Tuesday's program. The idea of this arrangement may seem gimmicky. But it was both charming and revealing to hear the work in this fresh way.
The Afghan orchestra musicians were joined by 17 players from the Scarsdale High School Orchestra. Some of the Afghan students are still new to their instruments. But as ''Bolero'' built steadily to its brassy, clattering climax, everyone -- older violinists who exuded command of their instruments, girls wearing traditional Afghan head scarves playing cello -- brought impressive focus and energy to the performance.
The other novelty was Mr. Harvey's arrangement of Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons,'' titled ''The Four Seasons of Afghanistan.'' The piece basically hews to the layout of the Vivaldi work, with four concertos of three movements each. But Vivaldi's music is altered and tweaked, with some steady duple and triple meters transformed into irregular Afghan rhythmic patterns. And the Vivaldi solo violin part is imaginatively reconceived for guitar, sitar, rubab and other diverse instrumental combos. In the slow movement of ''Winter,'' here renamed ''Khana,'' Farhad Safari, a 12-year-old red-haired boy, playing ghichak, a bowed instrument, won your heart (and earned bravos at the end) with his tender rendering of the ruminative solo theme.
The highlights of the program, though, were the selections of Afghan music, played by smaller ensembles of traditional instruments, sometimes in arrangements by Mr. Harvey that brought in the orchestra.
Before the concert Mohammad Asif Nang, deputy education minister, explained to the audience what playing Carnegie Hall meant to the young musicians and his country. His people, he said, are ''fed up with war'' and ''pray for peace.'' He ended by saying, ''Long live peace, long live our friendship.''
Sometimes a concert is much more than a musical experience. This one ended with ''Shakoko jan,'' an Afghan folk song, a rousing rendition that had concertgoers throughout the packed hall clapping along. The ovation was so boisterous that the piece was repeated as an encore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ensembles of Afghanistan National Institute of Music with William Harvey conducting at Carnegie Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (92%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); CHILDREN (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); ETHNICITY (66%); ORPHANS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%) AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



492 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS | EVENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Tapping the Vein of Design

BYLINE: By JULIE LASKY

 BODY:
After months of vigorous planning, New York will have a 12-day celebration of design this spring extending over all five boroughs. NYC x Design will run from May 10 to 21, to coincide with the International Contemporary Furniture Fair at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and Frieze New York art fair on Randalls Island. Pronounced ''NYC by Design'' and interdisciplinary in scope, it will present the work of local designers and architects in museum exhibitions, conferences, studio tours, showroom displays, pop-up stores, art installations and a design film festival. 
The goal is greater visibility for an industry with untapped economic potential, said City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn (left), whose office is leading the project with a steering committee of more than 30 design leaders from business, civic and cultural groups. ''We have more designers in New York City than any other U.S. city, but we do a terrible job promoting them in their totality,'' she said.
Ideally, the festival would seed itself over time and multiply the number of New York design jobs, she said. In the future, ''if we're doing it right, there's more set designers in Brooklyn and Queens, more furniture designers in Brooklyn and more jewelry designers in the South Bronx and Lower East Side.''
Festival events can be found at NYCxDesign.com, a Web site that was introduced this week. The program will continue to be updated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CITIES (73%); JEWELRY (73%); FILM (72%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



493 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: In High-Tech Japan, the Fax Machines Roll On

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Hisako Ueno contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan is renowned for its robots and bullet trains, and has some of the world's fastest broadband networks. But it also remains firmly wedded to a pre-Internet technology -- the fax machine -- that in most other developed nations has joined answering machines, eight-tracks and cassette tapes in the dustbin of outmoded technologies.
Last year alone, Japanese households bought 1.7 million of the old-style fax machines, which print documents on slick, glossy paper spooled in the back. In the United States, the device has become such an artifact that the Smithsonian is adding two machines to its collection, technology historians said.
''The fax was such a success here that it has proven hard to replace,'' said Kenichi Shibata, a manager at NTT Communications, which led development of the technology in the 1970s. ''It has grown unusually deep roots into Japanese society.'' 
The Japanese government's Cabinet Office said that almost 100 percent of business offices and 45 percent of private homes had a fax machine as of 2011.
Yuichiro Sugahara learned the hard way about his country's deep attachment to the fax machine, which the nation popularized in the 1980s. A decade ago, he tried to modernize his family-run company, which delivers traditional bento lunchboxes, by taking orders online. Sales quickly plummeted.
Today, his company, Tamagoya, is thriving with the hiss and beep of thousands of orders pouring in every morning, most by fax, many with minutely detailed handwritten requests like ''go light on the batter in the fried chicken'' or ''add an extra hard-boiled egg.''
''There is still something in Japanese culture that demands the warm, personal feelings that you get with a handwritten fax,'' said Mr. Sugahara, 43.
Japan's reluctance to give up its fax machines offers a revealing glimpse into an aging nation that can often seem quietly determined to stick to its tried-and-true ways, even if the rest of the world seems to be passing it rapidly by. The fax addiction helps explain why Japan, which once revolutionized consumer electronics with its hand-held calculators, Walkmans and, yes, fax machines, has become a latecomer in the digital age, and has allowed itself to fall behind nimbler competitors like South Korea and China.
''Japan has this Galápagos effect of holding on to some things they're comfortable with,'' said Jonathan Coopersmith, a technology historian who is writing a book on the machine's rise and fall. ''Elsewhere, the fax has gone the way of the dodo.''
In Japan, with the exception of the savviest Internet start-ups or internationally minded manufacturers, the fax remains an essential tool for doing business. Experts say government offices prefer faxes because they generate paperwork onto which bureaucrats can affix their stamps of approval, called hanko. Many companies say they still rely on faxes to create a paper trail of orders and shipments not left by ephemeral e-mail. Banks rely on faxes because, they say, customers are worried about the safety of their personal information on the Internet.
Even Japan's largest yakuza crime syndicate, the Kobe-based Yamaguchi-gumi, has used faxes to send notifications of expulsion to members, the police say.
After the deadly earthquake and tsunami in northeastern Japan in 2011, there was a small boom in fax sales to replace machines that had been washed away. One of the hottest sellers is a model that is powered by batteries so it will keep working during power failures caused by natural disasters.
At Tamagoya, Mr. Sugahara has turned his company's reliance on the fax and standard telephones into an art form. Every morning, orders for about 62,000 lunches pour in, about half by fax. Most of those lunches are cooked and put onto trucks even before the last order is taken. A small army of 100 fax and telephone operators carefully coordinate deliveries, and fewer than 60 lunches -- or 0.1 percent -- are wasted.
Every day, Mr. Sugahara hangs up some of the handwritten messages that arrive by fax to remind his staff to keep pleasing customers. These faxed exhortations are on a wall near the sole employee who operates the computer that monitors the company's Web site, which accounts for a mere 5 percent of orders. ''Seeing the handwriting is a reminder that the bento's 1,000-year history was built on personal ties to the customers,'' Mr. Sugahara said.
Handwritten messages have long been a necessity in Japan, where the written language is so complex, with two sets of symbols and 2,000 characters borrowed from Chinese, that keyboards remained impractical until the advent of word processors in the 1980s. Faxes continue to appeal to older Japanese, who often feel uncomfortable with keyboards, experts say.
At the same time, clinging to old ways also forces Japan to accept higher levels of inefficiency. At 114 Bank, a midsize company with an office in the center of Nihonbashi, Tokyo's answer to Wall Street, most small-business customers still prefer to do their banking by fax.
To ease their concerns about theft of personal information, the bank introduced a high-security system that occupies an entire table in the center of its busy office. The setup includes a two-foot pole with a red light on top to warn of a transmission error. Every time a fax is sent to a new number, two employees must be on hand, one to type the number, the other to ensure that the number was correctly dialed.
''The long history of the fax just makes it seem safer in a world of hackers and viruses,'' said Kiichiro Yoshii, the bank's deputy branch manager.
Japan's love affair with the fax began during the nation's economic heyday in the 1980s, when the machines became a household appliance more common than automatic dishwashers. Japan quickly dominated global fax production, making 90 percent of the tens of millions of machines built, according to the Communications and Information Network Association of Japan, an industry group that includes fax makers.
But its very success has made the fax a hard habit to kick. The demographics of aging have also played a role, because the generations that lived through the nation's glory years have clung to their faxes. In fact, until 2009, the number of fax machines in private dwellings was still rising, a reflection of the dwindling numbers of young people embracing new technologies, experts say.
''Demographics have left Japan dominated by older generations who are still more likely to have a fax number than an e-mail address,'' said Shigeyuki Miya, a vice president at the communications group.
Mr. Miya said that 2009 was a turning point because of the introduction of two devices, the smartphone and the tablet computer. The devices proved popular among younger Japanese in a way that PCs and keyboards never did, experts say.
But Japan now faces new fears of a growing divide between the fax and postfax generations. NTT, the giant domestic telephone company that originally helped develop affordable fax machines, has tried to bridge that gap. It is offering services that allow older Japanese to use their fax machines to send messages to their children's and grandchildren's smartphones, where they appear as attachments to e-mails.
''We have been with the fax from the beginning,'' said Mr. Shibata, the NTT official. ''We want to keep the fax evolving so it won't disappear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yuichiro Sugahara, whose company delivers bento lunchboxes, mostly through fax orders. (A1)
 A decade ago, Tamagoya tried to shift to online sales of its bento lunches, but business suffered. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KOSUKE OKAHARA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); HISTORY (89%); BROADBAND (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (65%); STARTUPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (98%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



494 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2507 words

HEADLINE: Their Trip to Bountiful

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
HOLYOKE, Mass. -- It was the build-it-and-they-will-come principle that inspired two self-described plant geeks to buy a soulless duplex on a barren lot in this industrial city 10 years ago and turn it into their own version of the Garden of Eden. Their Eves, they figured, would show up sooner or later.
''Paradise Lot: Two Plant Geeks, One-Tenth of an Acre, and the Making of an Edible Garden Oasis in the City,'' by Eric Toensmeier, with contributions from Jonathan Bates, tells the story of how it happened. Published by Chelsea Green this month, it's just in time for armchair gardening -- and Valentine's Day.
It's a love story intertwined with the tale of how a small, barren backyard shaded by Norway maples, with an asphalt driveway in front, became a place that could sustain about 160 kinds of edible plants, including pawpaws, persimmons, Asian pears, gooseberries, strawberries, blueberries and rarities like goumi (tiny berries with a sour cherry zing). 
Dwarf kiwi vines now climb up mimosa trees, with a lush carpet of shade-loving crops like currants, jostaberries (a cross between black currants and gooseberries), edible hostas, Solomon's seal and May apples.
Ramps, that wild leek so coveted by foodies that it's being stripped from eastern forests, thrive beneath the pawpaw trees, and so does giant fuki (Petasites japonicus Giganteus), with its four-foot-wide leaves. And fuki is not just a beautiful leaf that lends a tropical look to the landscape; like rhubarb's, its stalks are edible.
''You can already see the flower buds, here and here,'' Mr. Toensmeier, 41, told me one freezing day about two weeks ago.
He fingered the little bumps emerging from the frozen-looking ground, picturing a spring still invisible to the eye.
''It's our first flower as soon as the snow is gone in March,'' he said. ''We eat the leaf stalk'' -- boiled and peeled, he explains in the book, then marinated in raspberry vinegar, shredded ginger and tamari -- ''it's like weird-flavored celery.''
At the moment, however, this paradise is an icy landscape of bare trees, stumps and limp leaves, with sprigs of water celery peeking out of the frozen pool. In the summer, water lotus blooms here, but after last week's storm, it's under two feet of snow.
Marikler Giron Toensmeier reached down to pick a bit of water celery emerging from the frozen pond. It was about the size of a snowflake, but it was green and tasted like celery. ''And look, praying mantises,'' she said, touching one of the wrinkled egg cases stuck here and there among the dried grasses and twigs of the sleeping garden.
Ms. Toensmeier, 38, a native of Guatemala, is one of the Eves.
Seven years ago, Marikler Giron Ramirez, as she was known then, appeared in Mr. Toensmeier's life when he was managing a farm program for Nuestras Raíces, a nonprofit grass-roots organization that runs 10 community gardens in the city. She was working as an educator and fund-raiser for Heifer International, an international nonprofit group that donates farm animals to poor families to help them become self-sufficient and has a demonstration farm in Rutland, Mass.
As Mr. Toensmeier describes the moment in his book: ''A woman with brown eyes and the most beautiful dark hair I had ever seen walked into the room. I spent the next half-hour trying to see if she was wearing a wedding ring.''
She wasn't immune, either. ''I saw this spark in his eyes, and I say to myself, 'Uh-oh, Marikler, you are here to work. No way, no way,' '' she said.
The next weekend, the two were thrown together at a seed-saving workshop, and Mr. Toensmeier got a cram course on the Spanish words for stamen, pollen, pistil and the like.
The two began dating, even though Ms. Ramirez, who was planning to go back to Guatemala, was reluctant. ''My experiences with men hadn't been particularly great,'' she said.
So she made a long list of ''what I would look for in a guy,'' she said. ''One of the big things was respect, because in my country, a lot of macho men, they don't hear you as a woman, they don't help, they don't say, 'Do you have any needs?' ''
Mr. Toensmeier apparently got a lot of check marks. The garden came with the package.
''To tell the truth, I didn't know what they were doing,'' she said. ''I just remember coming into the house and smelling mint.''
And tasting some fruits she didn't recognize. ''He handed me this little kiwi,'' she said. ''And it was so sweet and good.''
But it wasn't so much the plants as the peace and quiet of the place.
''You go out there and you see a praying mantis and it's just walking around like this,'' she said, moving her arms in slow motion, the way the insect moves on a leaf. ''Just turning her head like this, and looks at you, and stays so still.''
After spending childhood summers on her great-grandfather's farm in the Guatemalan highlands, Ms. Toensmeier is tuned into animals and insects. With praying mantises, she can even tell male from female. ''The males are smaller,'' she said. ''The females get big, strong, especially after they eat the male.''
She giggled. Mr. Toensmeier gave her a loopy look. The two were married in the garden in 2007 and now have a 14-month-old named Daniel.
''Eric is so nice,'' Ms. Toensmeier said. ''I'm in grad school now and he makes me sleep, he takes care of Daniel at night, he gets up in the morning, lets me sleep some more. You know that's not something I would get from a man back home.''
As for Mr. Bates, he was pursued on the dance floor of a club in Northampton, Mass., by a woman who had spurned him years before.
''I always liked Jonathan, there was something about him'' said Megan Barber, 38, who grew up on a farm in upstate New York. ''We'd go out for ice cream, do things here and there. One day we sat down on a bench in Northampton and he asked if I would like to date. And I said, 'Uh, I just want to be friends.' ''
Mr. Bates, who is now 39, had heard that before. ''I never called back,'' he said.
Ms. Barber, a musician, went off to Mexico to teach violin and find a macho man. It didn't work out. ''I e-mailed you a couple of times,'' she said, ''but you never wrote back.''
He replied, his dark eyes twinkling: ''I was busy with the ladies.''
Ms. Barber came back to Boston to earn an M.B.A. in nonprofit management at Brandeis University. A girlfriend dragged her to a club, where she spotted Mr. Bates, she said. ''I tapped him on the shoulder and said, 'Are you Jonathan?' ''
Mr. Bates said he couldn't remember her name. ''I was probably embarrassed and shocked a little bit,'' he explained. ''I had to go home and look up her name in an old calendar.''
She called him and they met for lunch. She had a list, too, she said. ''The funny thing is, at the bottom of my list, I said, 'Whoever it is, it's definitely not anyone I know.' ''
Both women were attracted to the communal life.
''I grew up with a lot of extended family on the same road, walking between my grandparents' house and aunts and uncles, people were always in and out,'' Ms. Barber said. ''The garden was definitely an added bonus.''
But as Ms. Toensmeier pointed out: ''A garden can come and go. If you don't have what you're looking for in the person. ...''
Then it's all over, like the praying mantis.
But Ms. Barber had found what she was looking for, and she moved into the house in 2007, a month after the Toensmeiers were married. ''I told Jonathan, 'If I move in, I'm not planning to move out,' '' she said. (These two were married in the garden in 2009; their son, Jesse, was born five months ago.)
It was the women, who had both grown up with chickens, who suggested adding poultry to the mix, and they soon began cooking from the riches in the garden. Left to their own devices, Mr. Toensmeier said, the men ''would eat stuff raw, or heat up a can of Progresso soup and throw in some veggies.''
They were busy thinking about carbon sequestration and which vines would grow up which tree. And weighing the edibles in their forest garden: by 2010, Mr. Bates recorded a total of 400 pounds of fruits and vegetables in the space of six months. And that's not counting cultivated crops like tomatoes and eggplants.
Permaculture, which is short for permanent agriculture, mimics forest ecosystems in which plants form mutually beneficial relationships. Think of the ground covers, vines, shrubs and trees that make up the forest, then imagine the mushrooms, beetles, grubs and fungi in rotting logs and leaves, the insects and pollinators drawn to flowering plants and fruits.
The term was coined in the mid-1970s by Bill Mollison and David Holmgren, Australians who were experimenting with these concepts on the degraded soils of Tasmania. Reading their book, ''Permaculture One,'' Mr. Toensmeier writes, ''set the course for the rest of my life.'' He and Mr. Bates had struck up a friendship in 2000 at the Institute for Social Ecology, where their mutual interests converged much like plants in the forest. Mr. Toensmeier was working on a bachelor's degree, restoring old apple orchards using permaculture principles and compiling a list of little-known, cold-hardy edible perennials and their attributes. Mr. Bates, an engineer who had left a career designing aquaculture systems, was studying the potential of municipal-scale compost toilets, and cleaning gray water with plants, for his master's thesis.
The two eventually rented an old farmhouse in Southampton, Mass., and started a mail-order seed company for unusual edible plants -- ones that were not only tasty, but also improved soil fertility or attracted beneficial insects.
There was only one problem, Mr. Toensmeier said. ''It was only 20 minutes from here, but man, it was really, uh. ...''
Mr. Bates jumped in: ''Out in the middle of nowhere.'' (Like a lot of longtime couples, they tend to finish each other's sentences.)
A big night out was hiking to White Loaf Ridge to collect wild mushrooms in the woods, Mr. Toensmeier said. ''Where we were more likely to meet a bear, than -- ''
Mr. Bates said: ''Babes.''
But they moved to Holyoke for other reasons as well, mainly to work in an urban environment where their ideas might spread to other yards. And this impoverished old paper mill town in the Massachusetts Rust Belt, which had high rates of unemployment, drug use, diabetes and obesity, seemed a good place to start. Its population was also half Latino (mostly Puerto Rican), and Nuestras Raíces had developed quite an urban gardening tradition here.
The men spent the first year here analyzing their site: the way the sun moved across the lot in all seasons, where buildings and trees shaded ground, which corners were sheltered from the wind or basked in the collected heat of a south-facing wall -- factors that are crucial in intensive production. Friends helped them sheet-mulch, a quick no-till method of planting that involves covering the ground with layers of cardboard and compost, and putting plants right into the soil. And they reassembled the old greenhouse kit they had used at their farmhouse.
The 12-by-16-foot unheated plastic house helped extend the growing season, but after the October snowstorm of 2011 sent a tree crashing into it, Mr. Bates began to design a better one.
The new structure is 20 feet on each side and 11 ½ feet tall, to maximize exposure to the winter sun on the south side; the north side is a heavily insulated wall. Around the perimeter, a wall of insulation four inches thick extends one foot underground to keep the soil beneath the house from freezing. ''These beds haven't dropped below 45 degrees all winter,'' Mr. Bates said.
Three large black water tanks collect heat on a sunny day, and radiate it back into the house at night. ''It was 40 degrees in here last night, when it was 20 outside,'' he said.
That morning, it was a toasty 80 degrees inside, but just 31 outside.
But the tanks are more than heat collectors. They form an aquaponics system Mr. Bates is working on. The first tank will contain tilapia fish, whose waste will be pumped into another tank full of freshwater lobsters and clams, which are filter feeders. That water will then flow into a tank where watercress and willows feed on the nitrates in the waste water, cleansing and aerating it with their roots. The clean water then flows back to the fish tank.
It's one more piece of the permaculture puzzle, whose possibilities on this tenth of an acre seem limitless -- for the plants and their people.
Mr. Bates and Ms. Barber now run a mail-order nursery, Food Forest Farm, which offers dozens of edible plants tested on Paradise Lot. And one of these days, they may start farming upstate, on Ms. Barber's family land.
Mr. Toensmeier travels all over the world, helping communities plant forest gardens that are appropriate for their climate and site.
And Ms. Toensmeier, who thinks of Heifer International as part of her family, imagines moving to their headquarters, in Little Rock, Ark., where it's warmer.
So Paradise Lot won't last forever.
''It's more interesting to be in love than to have plants,'' Mr. Toensmeier said. ''And you can move plants to a new place. But it'll be sad.''
No one seems to be in a hurry, though. As Ms. Barber said: ''Things are going so well here. We really love our life.''
Unknown, Cold Hardy and Good Tasting
Eric Toensmeier has spent about 20 years coming up with a list of perennial vegetables that can stand the conditions and climate of the Northeast, and actually taste good, too. Yet few people grow them, or even know about them.
His 2007 book, ''Perennial Vegetables: From Artichoke to 'Zuiki' Taro, a Gardener's Guide to Over 100 Delicious, Easy-to-Grow Edibles,'' explores the art of combining them in mutually beneficial polycultures. More plants and deeper explanations are in ''Edible Forest Gardens: Ecological Vision and Theory for Temperate Climate Permaculture,'' by Dave Jacke, with Mr. Toensmeier. The two-volume bible includes an extensive list of cold-hardy perennial plants for various climates and conditions.
Many stars have emerged in Holyoke, Mass., where Mr. Toensmeier and Jonathan Bates have conducted their own permaculture experiment. Among them is Caucasian spinach, which produces edible shoots in early spring, ''like a skinny asparagus with tender leaves,'' Mr. Toensmeier writes in his latest book, ''Paradise Lot.'' Its leaves may be eaten raw well into June.
Groundnuts, which make nitrogen readily available to plants, produce tubers high in protein. Relatives of the bean family, they taste good not only boiled, but mashed up with chile spices and cheese, like refried beans.
Sweet cicely is a perennial that scatters its seeds all over the garden, so be forewarned. But its lacy white flowers attract beneficial insects, and its large seeds taste like licorice when they're green.
Skirret is a perennial that tastes like a cross between a potato and a parsnip; it's sweet and filling.
And walking onions are perennial scallions that spread, and thrive with Hidcote Blue comfrey, which has blue nodding flowers. Chickens love the calcium-rich, dark green leaves, and its roots improve the soil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The families of Paradise Lot in the greenhouse: front row, Eric and Marikler Giron Toensmeier, with Daniel
in back, Megan Barber and Jonathan Bates with Jesse. (D1)
Friends Jonathan Bates and Eric Toensmeier bought a duplex on a barren lot in Holyoke, Mass. Families followed. From left, Mr. Bates and his wife, Megan Barber, with their son, Jesse, and Marikler Giron Toensmeier with Eric, her husband, and their son, Daniel. (D6)
Clockwise from top left, the new greenhouse, which produces food throughout the winter
Marikler Giron Toensmeier stirring the worm bin
beets thriving in the planting beds
feeding protein-rich soldier fly larvae to a hen
goldfish, which will soon be replaced by tilapia
tree collards and other greens, left, and carrots and beets, right
watercress in the black water tank
 and a praying mantis egg case. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RANDY HARRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); WEATHER (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



495 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Ex-State Senator Offers 2nd Guilty Plea in Fraud

BYLINE: By MOSI SECRET

 BODY:
A former New York State senator pleaded guilty on Wednesday to falsifying evidence in an attempt to cover up the theft of taxpayer money from a nonprofit agency that she founded, ending a prominent corruption case that included charges in federal and state courts. 
The former senator, Shirley L. Huntley, a Democrat who represented Queens, told a judge in State Supreme Court in Nassau County that she drafted and backdated a letter in March 2011 to create a false record that the nonprofit agency, Parent Workshop Inc., held an event that never actually happened.
The agency was ostensibly dedicated to helping parents navigate the school system, but prosecutors said employees there and at another nonprofit organization she ran stole more than $100,000 in state grants instead of spending the money on programming.
In the Nassau County case, Ms. Huntley, 74, was not accused of stealing the money herself but rather of covering up $30,000 in thefts by others. Her actions came to light after a joint investigation by the state attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, and the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli. Mr. Schneiderman filed the charges.
In the related case in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, prosecutors accused Ms. Huntley of herself pocketing taxpayer money from her other nonprofit agency, Parents Information Network Inc. Two weeks ago, Ms. Huntley pleaded guilty in that case and admitted to stealing more than $87,000 in state grants to pay for shopping for herself and her relatives.
As part of the federal plea agreement, Ms. Huntley will pay the state the full amount she stole. She faces up to two years in prison under the federal sentencing guidelines for the charge, conspiracy to commit mail fraud. Sentencing is scheduled for April 4.
Prosecutors in the state case recommended a sentence of five years' probation because Ms. Huntley already faces federal prison time. She is to be sentenced on the state charge on March 29.
''It is unconscionable that an elected official would deliberately tamper with a law enforcement investigation into the theft of taxpayer dollars,'' Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement. ''My office's partnership with the comptroller is designed to combat such corruption, and we will work tirelessly to protect every penny of taxpayer money during these challenging economic times.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); PROBATION (77%); PARENTING (76%); PARENTING SUPPORT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); JUDGES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PRISONS (69%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



496 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Brooklynite Hits France, With Plans To Seduce

BYLINE: By LINDA HERVIEUX. 
David Pogue, whose State of the Art column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Garrett Oliver popped the cork of one of his specialty brews, swirled the amber liquid into a wine glass and took a hearty sniff.
''It smells a little like cheese -- in a good way,'' Mr. Oliver said the other night at a tasting of his artisanal beers.
Mr. Oliver, the brewmaster at Brooklyn Brewery, has a quirky way of describing his creations. He refers to the more complex ones as ''a little bit barnyard,'' ''having a funky nose'' or ''like a good sourdough bread.'' 
But Brooklyn, the New York borough, has become a global brand, and Brooklyn Brewery is counting on that -- and its beers' earthy complexities -- to entice drinkers to try something new in a country where even construction workers are more likely to belly up to the bar for ''un petit verre'' of the house red than they are to ask for ''un demi,'' or a small glass of beer.
This is no sure bet for Brooklyn Brewery. Beer consumption in France is Europe's second-lowest, after Italy; only 16 percent of French drinkers choose beer. With nearly two-thirds preferring wine, French consumers have proved so unfriendly in the past that few American craft brewers have bothered to cross the ocean. The only American beer that has caught on to any extent is Bud, largely by dint of the distributive heft of its multinational parent, Anheuser-Busch InBev.
''France is a difficult nut to crack,'' said Simon Spillane, senior adviser of the Brussels-based Brewers of Europe, which tracks beer consumption by country. Added to the brewer's challenge is the 160 percent increase in the French beer tax that took effect Jan. 1, which is projected to raise the price of a typical half-pint of beer by 20 to 30 centimes, the equivalent of 27 to 40 cents.
And yet, among younger French men and women there are signs of changing tastes. While consumption of all alcoholic beverages in France has been dropping for 30 years, beer is nonetheless an industry with annual sales of 2 billion euros, or $2.7 billion. And even as overall beer sales in France fell 1.7 percent in 2010, the most recent year for which data are available, specialty beer sales jumped 8.8 percent, according to the French Brewers' Association.
Craft brewers, an American category for independent breweries producing fewer than six million barrels a year, and smaller microbreweries have been popping up across France. Numerically, they are the vast majority of the approximately 500 brewers now operating in the country, although their sales make up only 2 percent in a market dominated by Carlsberg, Heineken and Anheuser-Busch InBev.
''People are drinking less, but they want something that's good,'' said Simon Thillou, a former journalist who in 2006, tired of the usual ''tasteless beer,'' opened La Cave à Bulles, a specialty shop in the Marais section of Paris. The shop sells 250 craft and microbrews, now including Brooklyn Brewery's.
Mr. Thillou and others in the French industry attribute the drop in drinking less to a health kick than to an evolution in taste. The French, they say, are now willing to spend more for a better product, be it wine or beer, even if they consume less of it. It is a trend that may bode well even for niche beers that pack a bitter punch and test a French palate predisposed to lighter, aromatic flavors.
Expanding into France is a natural evolution for Brooklyn Brewery, the largest exporter of American craft beer, with sales in 17 countries around the world. Foreign sales account for 20 percent of the privately held company's annual sales of $50 million. Outside of New York City, Brooklyn's largest market is Sweden, where the company plans to open a brewery by the end of the year.
''It's a matter of focus and an investment of time,'' said Eric Ottaway, Brooklyn Brewery's general manager and, along with his father and brother, majority owner. ''Selling beer in France isn't very different than in, say, Oklahoma.''
Brooklyn's marketing strategy is to start small, selling in carefully chosen outlets where experts behind the bar, or the counter, will match the right beer to the right drinker. That is the necessary strategy for France, industry experts say, where people are open to new tastes if the quality is high.
''You're not going to put Brooklyn in any corner cafe,'' said Joshua Fontaine, an American who is co-owner of three Paris bars. ''The customers wouldn't understand it, and they wouldn't pay 2 euros more for it.'' Mr. Fontaine's bars include the Marais hot spot Candelaria, which specializes in upscale cocktails and sells Brooklyn lager.
With a bar price of 5 to 7 euros a bottle, Brooklyn lager is the same price as Bud. Both beers go for twice the price of a half-pint of Kronenbourg, the homegrown perennial cafe favorite.
A price premium is not necessarily a drawback. ''You have successful beers today at the high end of the market, even in a difficult economic climate,'' said Nikolaas Faes, an analyst who follows alcoholic beverage companies at the Paris brokerage Bryan Garnier & Company.
Inevitably, it is the comparison with a fine wine that is perhaps Brooklyn's best selling point, said Elisabeth Pierre, a Paris-based beer consultant. She said she planned to include Brooklyn beers in her tastings, pairing, say, a nutty brown ale with a smoky Gouda cheese.
Over the last few months, Brooklyn Lager, the brewery's flagship beer and top seller, and Brooklyn India Pale Ale began appearing at 36 bars, restaurants and specialty shops in Paris. Other varieties and seasonal brews are available on a more limited basis.
The 25-year-old brewery is hoping also to cash in on the hipster cachet that Brooklyn conveys. Its distinctive label carries a cursive B designed by Milton Glaser, father of the ''I (heart) New York'' logo.
''Parisians adore Brooklyn -- they can't get enough of it,'' said Camille Rivière, who exports natural French wines to New York.
''It's a brand on its own. It's America. It's New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Garrett Oliver, Brooklyn Brewery's brewmaster, pours in Paris. (B1)
 Eric Ottoway, left, the brewery's general manager, at one of a series of tastings being held to acquaint Parisians with its beers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA HERVIEUX) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (93%); BREWERIES (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (62%)

COMPANY: ACTRIS AG (90%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (67%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (67%); ABI (BRU) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



497 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Giants, but Not Hegemons

BYLINE: By ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Today, many fear that the emerging American-Chinese duopoly must inevitably lead to conflict. But I do not believe that wars for global domination are a serious prospect in what is now the Post-Hegemonic Age.
Admittedly, the historical record is dismal. Since the onset of global politics 200 years ago, four long wars (including the Cold War) were fought over the domination of Europe, each of which could have resulted in global hegemony by a sole superpower. 
Yet several developments over recent years have changed the equation. Nuclear weapons make hegemonic wars too destructive, and thus victory meaningless. One-sided national economic triumphs cannot be achieved in the increasingly interwoven global economy without precipitating calamitous consequences for everyone. Further, the populations of the world have awakened politically and are not so easily subdued, even by the most powerful. Last but not least, neither the United States nor China is driven by hostile ideologies.
Moreover, despite our very different political systems, both our societies are, in different ways, open. That, too, offsets pressure from within each respective society toward animus and hostility. More than 100,000 Chinese are students at American universities, and thousands of young Americans study and work in China or participate in special study or travel programs. Unlike in the former Soviet Union, millions of Chinese regularly travel abroad. And millions of young Chinese are in daily touch with the world through the Internet.
All this contrasts greatly with the societal self-isolation of the 19th- and 20th-century contestants for global power, which intensified grievances, escalated hostility and made it easier to demonize the one another.
Nonetheless, we cannot entirely ignore the fact that the hopeful expectation in recent years of an amicable American-Chinese relationship has lately been tested by ever more antagonistic polemics, especially in the mass media of both sides. This has been fueled in part by speculation about America's allegedly inevitable decline and about China's relentless, rapid rise.
Pessimism about America' future tends to underestimate its capacity for self-renewal. Exuberant optimists about China's inevitable pre-eminence underestimate the gap that still separates China from America -- whether in G.D.P. per capita terms or in respective technological capabilities.
Paradoxically, China's truly admirable economic success is now intensifying the systemic need for complex social and political adjustments in how and to what extent a ruling bureaucracy that defines itself as communist can continue to direct a system of state capitalism with a rising middle class seeking more rights.
Simplistic agitation regarding the potential Chinese military threat to America ignores the benefits that the U.S. also derives from its very favorable geostrategic location on the open shores of two great oceans as well as from its trans-oceanic allies on all sides.
In contrast, China is geographically encircled by not always friendly states and has very few, if any, allies. On occasion, some of China's neighbors are tempted by this circumstance to draw the U.S. into support of their specific claims or conflicts of interest against China. Fortunately, there are signs that a consensus is emerging that such threats should not be resolved unilaterally or militarily, but through negotiation.
Matters have been not helped by the American media's characterization of the Obama administration's relative rebalancing of focus toward Asia as a ''pivot'' (a word never used by the president) with military connotations. In fact, the new effort was only meant to be a constructive reaffirmation of the unchanged reality that the U.S. is both a Pacific and Atlantic power.
Taking all this into account, the real threat to a stable U.S.-China relationship does not arise from any hostile intentions on the part of either country, but from the disturbing possibility that a revitalized Asia may slide into the kind of nationalistic fervor that precipitated conflicts in 20th-century Europe over resources, territory or power.
There are plenty of potential flash points: North Korea vs. South Korea, China vs. Japan, China vs. India, or India vs. Pakistan. The danger is that if governments incite or allow nationalistic fervor as a kind of safety valve it can spin out of control.
In such a potentially explosive context, U.S. political and economic involvement in Asia can be a crucially needed stabilizing factor. Indeed, America's current role in Asia should be analogous to Britain's role in 19th-century Europe as an ''off-shore'' balancing influence with no entanglements in the region's rivalries and no attempt to attain domination over the region.
To be effective, constructive and strategically sensitive U.S. engagement in Asia must not be based solely on existing alliances with Japan and South Korea. Engagement must also mean institutionalizing U.S.- Chinese cooperation.
Accordingly, America and China should deliberatively not let their economic competition turn into political hostility. Mutual engagement bilaterally and multilaterally -- and not reciprocal exclusion -- is what is needed. For example, the U.S. ought not seek a ''trans-Pacific partnership'' without China, and China should not seek a Regional Comprehensive Economic Pact without the U.S.
History can avoid repeating the calamitous conflicts of the 20th century if America is present in Asia as stabilizer -- not a would-be policeman -- and if China becomes the preeminent, but not domineering, power in the region.
In January 2011, President Obama and now-departing Chinese President Hu Jintao met and issued a communiqué boldly detailing joint undertakings and proposing to build a historically unprecedented partnership between America and China. With Obama reelected and Xi Jinping preparing to take over China's presidency in March, the two leaders should meet to revalidate and re-energize the U.S.-China relationship. Whether this relationship is vital and robust, or weak and full of suspicion, will affect the whole world.
Zbigniew Brzezinski was national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter. His most recent book is ''Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power.''
GLOBAL VIEWPOINT/ TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



498 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: A Running Start for a U.S.-Europe Trade Pact

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and JACK EWING

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Embarking on what could be the biggest trade agreement ever in its economic sweep, officials from the United States and the European Union indicated Wednesday that they had already resolved some of the stickiest issues behind closed doors.
But the sheer ambition of the trade negotiations, which aim not only to eliminate import duties but also synchronize regulations governing products like cars, drugs and medical devices, leaves plenty of room for the talks to bog down in the type of parochial concerns that have derailed past efforts at a trans-Atlantic trade pact.
Ron Kirk, the U.S. Trade Representative, said by telephone Wednesday that this time things would be different. Already, he said, preliminary discussions between him and top E.U. officials have made ''very good progress'' on issues that have stymied trade relations for years, like health and safety standards applied to food. A final agreement is possible before the end of 2014, he said.
But, Mr. Kirk acknowledged, ''we've still got a lot of work ahead of us.'' 
President Barack Obama endorsed a trade pact during his State of the Union address Tuesday, answering pleas from European leaders desperate for a way to speed up economic growth. Though Mr. Obama devoted only a single sentence to the topic, it was the green light that proponents of a trade deal had been hoping for.
''And tonight, I'm announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union,'' Mr. Obama said, giving the potential pact a name. He added, ''Because trade that is fair and free across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs.''
European officials on Wednesday agreed with Mr. Kirk that the timing is favorable for an agreement. And officials in both Brussels and Washington noted that the rising economic might of China gave them further incentive. A broad trade agreement could help ensure that Americans and Europeans, and not the Chinese government, would set standards on product safety or protection of intellectual property in years to come.
''You will now be setting what the rules of the road are for trade that are going to shape the global trading system,'' said Karan Bhatia, a former deputy U.S. trade representative who is now vice president for global government affairs at General Electric in Washington.
Unless the United States and Europe are in agreement, in too many future trade cases, ''we would be forced to accept Chinese standards,'' Karel De Gucht, the trade commissioner who is expected to lead the talks on behalf of Europe, said during an interview. ''That's what it is about.''
José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission -- the Union's administrative arm -- said at a news conference here that a trade pact would bolster the economies of the United States and Europe.
''Both of us need growth, and both us also have budgetary difficulties,'' Mr. Barroso said. ''Trade is the most economic way of promoting growth.''
But Mr. De Gucht, interviewed later, added a note of caution. ''The low-hanging fruit doesn't exist here any more,'' he said. ''All the easy topics are off the table.''
European leaders, including Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, have been pushing for a trade deal as a low-cost way of stimulating their struggling economies. Mr. Obama's statement Tuesday will help put to rest complaints by some Europeans that the U.S. president has not paid enough attention to his country's largest trading partner.
''A deal will create jobs on both sides of the Atlantic and make our countries more prosperous,'' Mr. Cameron said in statement. ''Breaking down the remaining trade barriers and securing a comprehensive deal will require hard work and bold decisions on both sides.''
Between them, the United States and Europe account for about half of global economic output and one-third of world trade. Trade in goods between the Union and America totaled $646 billion last year, according to U.S. government figures.
According to Mr. Kirk, the trade representative, the Union is the best customer for U.S. exports, buying $459 billion in goods and services and supporting 2.4 million American jobs.
''I don't know if I would call it the biggest trade agreement in the history of the planet,'' Mr. Kirk said, ''but it is really a very big deal.''
Tariffs on goods traveling between the United States and Europe are already low, averaging about 3 percent. But the saving from eliminating duties would still be significant because the volume is so enormous.
''One of the big winners is the aircraft sector, where the tariff rate is very low but value is so high,'' Peter Chase, vice president for Europe of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said during a conference call with reporters Wednesday. Duties on aircraft come to about $450 million a year, he said. ''That's a lot of money by anyone's count.''
With his use of the word ''comprehensive'' in his speech Tuesday, Mr. Obama indicated that negotiators planned to go beyond tariffs and attempt to eliminate regulatory inconsistencies that, for example, force the German carmaker Audi to build different versions of its vehicles for the U.S. and European markets, or require drug makers to seek approvals for new medicines on both continents.
Mr. Obama, presumably, would not have put his imprimatur on such an ambitious trade agenda unless he were confident of success. A so-called high-level working group including Mr. Kirk and Mr. De Gucht spent most of a year discussing the framework for talks; it issued its report Wednesday after a delay of several months. One reason for the delay was that officials wanted to make sure ahead of time that they could overcome historic points of contention.
''We don't want to spend 10 years negotiating what are well-known issues and not reach a result,'' Michael Froman, the U.S. deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, said on a conference call with reporters Wednesday.
The increasing economic importance of emerging-market countries in Asia and Latin America, which threatens the economic supremacy of the United States and Europe, adds another measure of urgency.
A deal ''will have a worldwide impact,'' said Mr. De Gucht, the Union's trade commissioner. He said the talks were ''about our place -- and by our place I mean the United States and Europe -- within a decade on the world economic scene.''
The similarities between Europe and America in culture and legal systems mean that harmonizing regulations should be possible. Both, for example, impose strict safety and emissions requirements on automobiles, even if their regulations differ in important ways. While there is no talk of creating joint U.S. and European regulatory agencies, Mr. De Gucht said that ''perhaps it makes sense to look together at putting in place a system of mutual recognition.''
But with many sensitive and complex issues to overcome, two powerful U.S. senators warned Tuesday, anticipating Mr. Obama's speech, that any deal must open Europe to American farm products.
Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the highest-ranking Republican on the committee, said that a trade deal presented an ''enticing opportunity.''
But in a letter to Mr. Kirk, they also wrote: ''Broad bipartisan Congressional support for expanding trade with the E.U. depends, in large part, on lowering trade barriers for American agricultural products.''
Food issues have long been an obstacle to more open trade between America and Europe. Many Europeans object to genetically modified crops and products derived from cloned animals that are commonplace in the United States.
A senior official in the Obama administration, who declined to be identified, said the Europeans, being eager ''for anything that looks like a growth strategy,'' seemed ''to be ready to take on some of the more difficult issues'' like agriculture.
Mr. Barroso told reporters Wednesday that restrictions in Europe on genetically modified crops would not be up for discussion, a statement that seemed to conflict with U.S. demands that restrictions be based solely on scientific evidence.
''These negotiations are not about compromising the health of our consumers for commercial gains,'' Mr. Barroso said.
But Mr. De Gucht said some European laws on growing biotech products were already under revision and the outcome could help to diffuse trans-Atlantic tensions.
Another complicating factor will be the nature of the European Union, with its 27 members who do not agree among themselves on all trade issues. There is some concern in France over the prospect of looser restrictions on agricultural products, or the dismantling of regulations designed to promote French films and other cultural products.
Mr. De Gucht said he did not intend to negotiate with his hands tied by the demands of any single European country. Even so, he conceded, ''I'm also living in the real world, and I know this is difficult for, by the way not only for France, but for a number of member states.''
Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt. Brian Knowlton and Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



499 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage in Europe Offers Ammunition in U.S. Debate

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Now that President Barack Obama has proposed an increase in the U.S. minimum wage, people on both sides of the debate in Washington might want to look to Europe for ammunition.
Minimum wage policies vary widely across the Continent, and as Europe grapples with the austerity measures that governments have imposed to help overcome its long-running debt crisis, the issue -- especially the way minimum wages affect growth and competitiveness -- is as important as ever.
In countries like Germany, where there is no minimum wage, concerns are mounting that swaths of low-skilled workers are sliding into poverty. In more protective nations like France, where the minimum wage is used to address income disparity and stoke spending, some say that higher labor costs may make investors turn elsewhere.
''The impact on growth from changes in the minimum wage comes down to the level at which it is set,'' said Simon Tilford, chief economist at the Center for European Reform in London. ''Those set at moderate levels don't have a negative impact on employment or growth. But clearly there is a risk that if it is raised too high, it can lead to problems.'' 
In the United States, he said, the minimum wage ''is clearly very much on the low side.'' He added: ''It's about striking a balance between the need to ensure people are on a living wage, and making sure that wage isn't set so high that it prices them out of employment.''
One argument frequently advanced in places like France -- and which Mr. Obama raised when he made his proposal during the State of the Union address to Congress on Tuesday -- is that minimum wage levels must at least keep up with the rise in inflation. But even with an incremental increase, minimum wages still tend to be below what most people consider a living wage.
In France, which pioneered minimum wage legislation in Europe starting in the 1950s, President François Hollande recently raised the minimum wage twice to fulfill a campaign pledge to help low earners, even as Germany and other North European countries called for wage restraint as part of broad austerity measures intended to help Europe exit its long-running debt crisis.
Both moves resulted in political backlash. When Mr. Hollande lifted the hourly wage in June by 2 percent, to &#x20ac;9.40, or $12.64 an hour, trade unions and political opponents said the increase was not nearly enough to help the working poor. ''You can't even buy a baguette every day'' on the increase, a popular leftist leader, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, charged.
Yet when Mr. Hollande lifted it again last month by another 0.3 percent, to &#x20ac;9.43 an hour, the main lobby group for small and midsize French businesses warned that the decision would add to France's already high labor costs, threaten investment and bring on ''the destruction of tens of thousands of jobs among the least qualified.''
Still, while employers contend that lifting the minimum wage raises their overall cost of doing business, people earning low wages must rely on some form of welfare to supplement their income and survive, Mr. Tilford said. That means private employers are being subsidized in some form by the government, he said.
Since Britain introduced its minimum wage in 1999, Mr. Tilford added, ''the impact on employment was minimal, and there was no indication it had any negative impact.''
In Germany, the picture is starkly different. Germany has no nationwide legal minimum wage, a point of contention for the main center-left political party, the Social Democrats, who plan to use the issue against Chancellor Angela Merkel in their campaign to unseat her in the elections next autumn.
Hourly wages are as low as &#x20ac;7 for laundry workers in eastern Germany but can also be higher. The minimum wage for construction workers in western Germany is &#x20ac;13.70 an hour.
But cuts in minimum benefits for jobless people since 2005 have put pressure on those seeking employment to work for low wages. That has contributed to a steep drop in unemployment -- the jobless rate in Germany is a relatively low 7.4 percent. But it is also stoking complaints that employers are exploiting some workers. German media have reported on people earning less than &#x20ac;4, and &#x20ac;6 an hour is not uncommon in industries like food service or retailing.
Critics say such policies have also deepened income inequality, even as the German economy outperforms most others in Europe.
''Much of the growth there has been from low-wage jobs, well below the minimum wage set in surrounding economies,'' Mr. Tilford said. ''This has priced people back into labor, but on wages that have to be subsidized by the government in various forms because people can't live on those wages.''
The Social Democrats, in league with the German Confederation of Trade Unions, have begun a campaign to institute a nationwide minimum wage of &#x20ac;8.50 an hour. According to union figures, 7.5 million Germans, or 18 percent of the work force, currently earn less than that amount. Not surprisingly, industry groups oppose a minimum wage, arguing that it would kill jobs.
In the meantime, keeping wages low has hardly helped stoke consumer spending, an engine of domestic growth, Bert Colijn, a labor market economist at the Conference Board in Brussels, said.
''The fact that there is no minimum wage, and that Germany has been so hard-line on wage growth, has definitely had an impact,'' he said. While Germans tend not to be big spenders to begin with, he said, ''you don't see that Germany has had a big pickup in consumption.''
In Spain, the debate has been more about whether to loosen collective bargaining agreements and allow companies to negotiate directly with employees, as is already the case in the auto sector -- which has pushed wages down. The minimum wage in Spain was frozen in December 2011 by the government, a move that drew criticism from unions that has since died down. Spain's minimum wage is in the lower part on a European scale, at around &#x20ac;748 a month.
Switzerland has also taken up the debate: although the nation seems to exude wealth, there is no minimum wage, which some say leads to big disparities in living standards.
Economists say that as Europe struggles to exit the crisis and ensure that more people do not fall through the cracks, the most important way to tackle those initiatives is by lifting productivity -- something that minimum wage policies tend not to address.
''In the advanced economies of Europe and the United States, gains won't come from being very cost competitive,'' he said. Enhancing productivity, he added, ''is the easiest way to improve things.''
Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt, and Raphael Minder from Madrid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); LIVING WAGE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



500 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: New Leader in South Criticizes North Korea

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- In her harshest criticism yet of North Korea, the incoming president of South Korea, Park Geun-hye, warned on Wednesday that the North's pursuit of nuclear weapons would bring its government ''self-destruction.''
Ms. Park's comment came a day after North Korea defied worldwide warnings Tuesday by detonating what it called a miniaturized atomic bomb in its third nuclear test. 
It remained unclear how close North Korea has come to building a nuclear warhead small enough to fit onto intercontinental ballistic missiles -- seen as the ultimate goal of the North's nuclear and missile programs. But the latest detonation was more than a nuclear test; it also tested the abilities of the new governments in the region to tame the North's nuclear and missile ambitions.
The test led to a new chorus of international outrage and threats of more sanctions, even though such responses have had little to no effect on North Korea's behavior after its previous tests.
But as the North steps closer to the weaponization of its nuclear devices and missile tests, some hard-line members of Ms. Park's governing Saenuri Party called for South Korea to secure its own ''nuclear deterrent,'' while the main opposition party urged Ms. Park to help defuse the tension by sending a special envoy to the North.
''No matter how many nuclear tests North Korea conducts to bolster its nuclear capabilities, it will eventually bring itself self-destruction by wasting its resources,'' Ms. Park was quoted as saying by her office during a meeting with her national security and foreign affairs advisers on Wednesday. ''Nuclear weapons did not prevent the old Soviet Union from collapsing.''
Her comment followed -- and echoed the tone -- of President Obama's warning to North Korea during his State of the Union address on Tuesday. North Korea's provocations ''will only isolate them further,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We stand by our allies, strengthen our own missile defense and lead the world in taking firm action in response to these threats.''
Mr. Obama spoke by phone with the departing South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, on Tuesday, and afterward, the White House made a rare public gesture of reaffirming American's ''nuclear umbrella'' over South Korea.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta also joined the chorus of criticism. Describing North Korea as ''a threat to the United States, to regional stability, and to global security,'' Mr. Panetta, at a Pentagon news conference, issued a warning to the leadership in Pyongyang.
''Make no mistake,'' he said. ''The U.S. military will take all necessary steps to meet our security commitments to the Republic of Korea and to our regional allies.''
Ms. Park, who replaces Mr. Lee on Feb. 25, had been careful not to criticize North Korea. During her campaign for her December election, she opposed unconditional aid and economic investments of the sort championed by her liberal rivals, insisting that North Korea must first win the South's ''trust'' by easing its hostilities. But she also criticized the Mr. Lee's hard-line policy as failing to change North Korea's provocative behavior.
Ms. Park shifted to a firmer stance after the nuclear test.
She said that a central principle of her North Korea policy has been to ''make sure that North Korea pays for its provocations while assuring opportunities and assistance if it chooses to become a responsible member of the international community.''
''But if the North pours cold water, it will affect our approach,'' she added. ''Even if it conducts fourth and fifth nuclear tests, they will do nothing to boost its bargaining position.''
Also on Wednesday, South Korea's Defense Ministry said that North Korea's growing missile and nuclear threats compelled it to accelerate the building of new ballistic missiles capable of reaching all of North Korea.
Last fall, the United States agreed to allow South Korea to extend the range of its ballistic missiles up to 500 miles, enough to reach any target in North Korea.
The North's detonation also added urgency to the ''Korea Air and Missile Defense'' system, which South Korea plans to build to guard itself from North Korea's short-range ballistic missiles, said Kim Min-seok, a ministry spokesman, during a media briefing on Wednesday.
Mr. Kim said South Korea had ''doubts'' about the North's claim to have successfully tested a ''miniaturized and lighter'' atomic bomb that could theoretically be used atop missiles. North Korea still needed more time to reach that goal, he said.
Ships, airborne sensors and ground-based monitors from North Korea's neighbors tried on Wednesday to collect air samples that may give them answers to questions surrounding the North Korean blast. A key question is whether the device detonated used some of the North's limited stockpile of plutonium or was a uranium bomb, which would be proof that the country has acquired a second, and more accessible, source of nuclear bomb-making materials.
Mr. Kim, the ministry spokesman, said no telltale air samples had been collected as of Wednesday. Experts say it takes two to four days for radioactive gases to leak out from an underground nuclear test. By then, they are harder to detect. In its 2009 test, North Korea plugged its underground testing tunnel so tightly that no radioactive gas escaped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); LEON E PANETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



501 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Calmly, Pick For Treasury Offers Replies To Senators

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Jacob J. Lew, President Obama's nominee for Treasury secretary, faced some fierce questioning on Wednesday from the Senate Finance Committee on his tenure at the bailed-out Citigroup and on an investment based in the Cayman Islands. But the even-tempered, bookish Mr. Lew parried the blows and appeared likely to win the committee's approval and Senate confirmation.
''Frankly, I think you've done really well today,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the committee. ''My gosh, I have nothing but respect for people like you who give yourself to our government.'' 
Many questions from Senate Republicans seemed intended to rankle or ruffle Mr. Lew and score some political points. Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina asked about the Benghazi attack in Libya. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, referring to Mr. Lew's lucrative but short time at Citigroup, commanded him to ''explain why it might be morally acceptable to take close to a million dollars out of a company that was functionally insolvent and about to receive a billion dollars of taxpayer support.''
Mr. Lew calmly responded, ''I was compensated for my work. I'll leave for others to judge.''
He emphasized that he had worked in operations at Citigroup, albeit for a time at an investment unit that made proprietary trades on behalf of the bank.
''I was not in the business of making investment decisions,'' he said. ''I was certainly aware of things that were going on. I was working in a financial institution. I learned a great deal about the financial products. But I wasn't designing them and I wasn't opining on them.''
Aside from his time on Wall Street from 2006 to 2008, Mr. Lew has spent most of his career as a Democratic budget official -- and the White House chose him in no small part for that experience. Much of his testimony focused on the trillion-dollar budget battle he would face immediately after becoming secretary. On March 1, automatic cuts to military and nonmilitary programs, known as the sequester, will start to take effect. Republicans and Democrats are both struggling to unwind or delay them, with hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake.
Mr. Lew said Congress needed to undo the sequester. He also said political dysfunction in Washington was threatening the real economy.
''The short-term-crisis, deadline-driven practices that we've seen over the last couple of years are undermining the economy,'' Mr. Lew said. ''It's the first time in my nearly 30 years in public life that I felt that the actions of government were actually working against the goal of getting the economy moving.''
Mr. Lew also described tax reform as a top priority, with an eye to raising more money, lowering rates, reducing loopholes and generally rationalizing the code. He said cutting the tax rate on corporate income to 25 percent from its current 35 percent would be difficult. He also called for a minimum tax on foreign profits. And he said there was ''room to work together'' on creating a tax system in which income is taxed only in the country where it is earned, a change long sought by large American companies that operate around the world.
Over and over, Mr. Lew asserted his longtime budget bona fides and willingness to work with Republicans. ''Working across the aisle while serving under President Clinton, I helped negotiate the groundbreaking agreement with Congress to balance the federal budget,'' he said in his opening statement. He added that he had been involved in ''almost every major bipartisan budget agreement over the last 30 years,'' and that ''the things that divide Washington right now are not as insurmountable as they might look.''
But as one of Mr. Obama's main budget negotiators in the last few years, Mr. Lew has at times clashed with Republicans, particularly in the House. Former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, not Mr. Lew, acted as a main negotiator during the talks over the automatic tax increases and spending cuts, the so-called fiscal cliff, that Congress cut a deal to avoid last month.
During the hearing, Republicans also targeted a money-losing investment Mr. Lew had made in a fund based in the Cayman Islands. Mr. Grassley noted that Mr. Obama had derided Ugland House, which provides an address for thousands of investment entities -- including the fund Mr. Lew bought into -- and said he saw some hypocrisy in Mr. Lew's nomination, given the investment.
But the attacks seemed mostly tactical. ''Jack Lew paid all of his taxes and reported all of the income, gains and losses from the investment,'' said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. ''There are no new facts that provide a basis for senators to reach a different conclusion about Mr. Lew's nomination than they reached twice before in this administration.''
Some senators -- including Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, and Bernard Sanders, the left-leaning independent from Vermont -- have said they do not support Mr. Lew. But it seemed unlikely that he would face a filibuster that might delay his confirmation or end his candidacy.
''Mr. Lew has been confirmed by the Senate three times already,'' Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said in a statement released before the hearing, referring to Mr. Lew's service in both the Obama and Clinton administrations. ''I don't expect there to be any reason why he should not be confirmed this time around as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Lew, named to lead the Treasury Department, fielded some fierce questions on Wednesday from the Senate finance panel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); APPROVALS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICHARD BURR (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



502 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Decline in McDonald's Sends Dow Lower; S.&P. and Nasdaq Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market lacked direction on Wednesday, as a slump in McDonald's stock helped pull the Dow Jones industrial average below 14,000. Other major market indexes were marginally higher. 
McDonald's was among the biggest decliners in the Dow, losing $1.10, to $94, as investors worried that Americans were spending less on eating out after a rise in Social Security taxes at the beginning of the year. The government reported early Wednesday that spending by Americans barely grew last month.
Other fast-food companies also fell. Buffalo Wild Wings stock plunged $4.52, to $76.55, after its earnings fell short of analysts' expectations. Burger King and Wendy's also fell.
''Consumer spending is coming under pressure,'' said Bryan Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James. ''It's the easiest way to save money; stay at home and cook.''
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 35.79 points, or 0.26 percent, to 13,982.91. The Dow is still up 6.71 percent so far this year and is just 182 points below the record close of 14,164 set on Oct. 9, 2007.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 0.90 point, or 0.06 percent, to 1,520.33. The index climbed as high as 1,524.69 during the day, the highest since November 2007. It is up 6.6 percent so far this year.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.38 points, or 0.33 percent, to 3,196.88.
Investors sent General Electric and Comcast higher after G.E. agreed Tuesday to sell its stake in NBCUniversal to Comcast for $16.7 billion. G.E. said it would use up to $10 billion of the money to buy back its own stock. Shares of G.E. rose 81 cents, to $23.39. Comcast advanced $1.16, to $40.13.
Trading has been relatively quiet in recent days after a strong opening to the year.
''We're cautiously optimistic on stocks,'' said Colleen Supran, principal at Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough. ''There is some indication that we could be continuing on this slow growth trajectory.''
Ms. Supran said investors should still be prepared for volatility in the stock market and not assume that the gains from January and so far in February will set the pattern for the rest of the year.
Strengthening the economy and creating jobs were major topics in President Obama's State of the Union address Tuesday. Although the economy is healthier than it was four years ago, growth remains slow and unemployment high.
Among the stocks on the move, Groupon rose 28 cents, to $5.57, after the brokerage firm Sterne, Agee & Leach, raised its rating on the company to buy from neutral, citing the long-term potential for Groupon's changing business model. The online deals company has lost almost three-quarters of its value since going public in November 2011 at $20 as revenue growth slowed.
On Wednesday, the price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 13/32, to 96 15/32. The yield rose to 2.03 percent, from 1.98 percent Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); DIVESTITURES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); DINING OUT TRENDS (71%); JOB CREATION (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); BUFFALO WILD WINGS INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); STERNE AGEE GROUP INC (50%); GROUPON INC (50%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%); BWLD (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



503 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo To Cities: Just Borrow

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE A. MINER. 
Stephanie A. Miner is the mayor of Syracuse and a co-chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee.

 BODY:
SYRACUSE
THE specter of financial collapse looms over New York State's cities. For some the collapse is imminent, for others a few years off. Instead of confronting these realities, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's proposed state budget avoids them.
The plan, put forward last month, would not increase state aid to cities or do much to reform tax, pension or labor laws. Instead, it would let municipalities push payment of today's ballooning pension costs into the future, in what amounts to an accounting gimmick. 
The stress on cities like Syracuse, where I am mayor, results from profound economic changes but also past decisions by an array of leaders. Mr. Cuomo -- whom I consider an ally, despite some differences of opinion -- ought to use his substantial, hard-earned political capital to convene the Legislature, the state comptroller, and union and business leaders for an honest conversation about the multiple fiscal pressures confronting our cities.
First, our labor costs are too high -- less because of salaries, more because of the rising costs of pensions and health care. City leaders and labor unions jointly negotiated these past arrangements but haven't cooperated to keep them in check. Most public-sector unions in the state cannot legally strike -- instead, unresolved labor disputes go to binding arbitration, which often leads to decisions that cities cannot afford.
Second, revenue in cities like mine has plummeted, and not just because of the Great Recession. Municipal aid and school aid have been cut or have stagnated in recent years. Billions of dollars' worth of corporate tax breaks have been given away in the name of ''economic development.'' The state has offered, and the cities have accepted, fiscal gimmicks like borrowing money or using one-time revenue to pay for operating expenses.
Third, the model of using property taxes to finance schools, police, fire, sanitation and other services is no longer sustainable. (New York City, which has relatively low property taxes but levies a city income tax, is an exception.) For decades, once-large industrial employers like Eastman Kodak in Rochester, the Otis Elevator Company in Yonkers and the Carrier Corporation (a maker of heating and air-conditioning equipment) in Syracuse have shed jobs and closed plants. Even when unemployment -- 8.2 percent in New York State in December, compared with 7.8 percent nationally -- falls, property tax revenue won't come back.
Finally, demographics have changed. Cities are magnets for immigrants and the poor who need and demand costly social services. The vibrant middle class that once defined urban life moved to the suburbs or exurbs long ago and, with the notable exception of New York City, an influx of well-educated young professionals has not made up for that exodus.
When Mr. Cuomo took office, the state faced a budget crisis. He made some difficult but wise choices, but he has left cities strapped. We are largely restricted from how much we can raise property taxes, even while state aid levels are stagnant. The state is benefiting from a resilient income-tax base, while cities are stuck with an eroded property-tax base.
Mr. Cuomo's budget proposal would let municipalities and school districts address rising pension costs by borrowing more now -- which will mean paying more later on, as interest rates, now at historic lows, are sure to rise. Pension payments have skyrocketed since the stock market plunged in 2007-8; though the market has rebounded, the financial projections underlying pension calculations have changed and the wave of boomer retirees is continuing to drive up costs. Borrowing makes sense when you're building schools or roads; using it to pay for recurring costs like retiree benefits is a path to insolvency.
In fact, it was such fiscal recklessness that plunged New York City into a fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s.
The Legislature and the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, should reject the proposed budget and begin a search for lasting solutions. The worst-case alternatives could be control boards or bankruptcy. Control boards, like the one appointed to oversee New York City's finances in the mid-1970s, take power from elected officials, are at odds with democratic accountability and often let banks and creditors off the hook with unfairly favorable terms. A chaotic municipal bankruptcy would be even worse, as the recent bankruptcies of Jefferson County, Ala., San Bernardino and Stockton, Calif., and Central Falls, R.I., have shown.
We mayors have proposals on labor arbitration, pension rules, budget gimmicks and taxes. What we don't have, yet, is the leadership to arrive at a consensus on what will work. For that we need the governor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); MAYORS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (76%); STRIKES (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); TAX REFORM (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); CLOSINGS (69%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); CORPORATE TAX (64%)

COMPANY: CARRIER CORP (81%); OTIS ELEVATOR CO (63%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3534 ELEVATORS & MOVING STAIRWAYS (63%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



504 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: North Carolina Approves Steep Benefit Cuts for Jobless in Bid to Reduce Debt

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
North Carolina lawmakers approved deep cuts to benefits for the jobless on Wednesday, in a state that has one of the nation's highest unemployment rates.
In a debt-reducing effort, the Republican-controlled legislature voted to cut maximum weekly benefits to $350 from $535, a 35 percent drop; reduce the maximum number of weeks for collecting benefits to between 12 and 20 weeks from 26 weeks; and tighten requirements to qualify. The cuts would begin with new jobless claims on July 1. 
If the bill is signed by Gov. Pat McCrory, as expected, North Carolina would be the eighth state to roll back jobless benefits under the growing financial burden of the recession.
The measure's sponsors said it would spur job growth by paying down $2.5 billion in debt to the federal government. The bill passed the State Senate by a vote of 36 to 12.
''North Carolina owes the federal government $2.5 billion because of a broken unemployment insurance system,'' said Mr. McCrory, a Republican. ''We're going to pay down that debt, make the system solvent and provide an economic climate that allows businesses, large and small, to put people back to work.
But critics warned of dangerous consequences. The state has the nation's fifth-highest unemployment rate, at 9.2 percent, compared with the national average of 7.9 percent.
''We have a jobs crisis -- there are about three unemployed workers for every job,'' said Bill Rowe, the director of advocacy for the North Carolina Justice Center, which aids low income workers. ''We're turning down money to make cuts for what are not really legitimate reasons.''
The bill also disqualifies 170,000 unemployed people -- 39 percent of the 438,000 jobless -- from federal emergency extended benefits because it reduces the number of weeks people can receive benefits to below 26. The federal government has set 26 weeks as the national requirement for receiving federal funds.
''Families struggling to secure their place in the middle class will suffer a grievous blow, and the state's economy will lose $780 million in federal funds that are vital to reducing North Carolina's high unemployment rate,'' said Seth D. Harris, the acting labor secretary.
Since the recession began, seven other states have reduced unemployment benefits: Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Michigan, Missouri and South Carolina. But North Carolina's cuts would be the ''harshest yet,'' according to the National Employment Law Project, an employment-rights advocacy group, since the reduction in benefits is bigger than in other states.
North Carolina was forced to borrow $2.5 billion from the federal government starting in 2008, after its unemployment fund went bankrupt. The bill would allow the fund to be out of debt by 2015 instead of 2018.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%)

PERSON: PAT MCCRORY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



505 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Extending a Theme, Obama Promotes Resurgence in U.S. Manufacturing

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Mark Landler reported from Asheville, and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
ASHEVILLE, N.C. -- The day after President Obama charted an expansive new view of the government's role in society, it seemed less and less likely that many of his proposals would survive the political riptide on Capitol Hill.
On Wednesday, as Mr. Obama took to the road and visited a Canadian engine-parts factory near here to sell his vision, Republicans and even some Democrats expressed doubt about whether plans to raise the minimum wage or provide universal access to prekindergarten would ever be enacted -- especially on top of ambitious White House efforts on gun violence and immigration.
Mr. Obama chose a politically friendly corner of Republican-leaning North Carolina to promote the resurgence of American manufacturing, one of the central messages of a State of the Union speech that also included initiatives on education and energy.
''What's happening here is happening all around the country,'' Mr. Obama said against a backdrop of three hulking engine blocks. ''Just as it's becoming more and more expensive to do business in places like China, America is getting more competitive.'' 
The far-reaching nature of the president's agenda took lawmakers from both parties by surprise, even though it built on his assertive Inaugural Address. Republicans, whose policies are focused on deficit reduction, reacted incredulously.
''It's not like we've solved all of the problems we're working on now so we have to be looking for other things,'' said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. ''The federal government taking over prekindergarten programs in America? The federal government deciding Washington, D.C., is the best place to administer elections? I don't see it.''
Some Democrats counseled that the presidential wish list laid out Tuesday night should not be taken literally in a suspicious Capitol.
''You can disagree with the president, but you cannot say he has no vision, no dreams or aspirations for this country, and that's what he was laying out,'' said Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York.
Asheville was the first of three stops in a campaign-style swing that has become a tradition after the State of the Union speech. Speaking to a sympathetic audience of factory workers, Mr. Obama played up his proposed increase in the federal minimum wage, to $9 an hour from $7.25. ''If you work full time,'' he said, ''you shouldn't be in poverty.''
Yet even in stronger economic times, minimum wage increases have been heavy political lifts. The last increase passed in 2007, after Democrats swept to control of Congress, and even then it had to be tacked onto an Iraq war financing and Hurricane Katrina relief law.
Republicans swiftly rejected Mr. Obama's latest attempt, saying it would only exacerbate the jobless rate.
''I've been dealing with the minimum wage issue for the last 28 years that I've been in elected office,'' House Speaker John A. Boehner said to reporters on Wednesday. ''And when you raise the price of employment, guess what happens? You get less of it.''
Democrats, however, said that after a first term marked by failed outreach to Republicans, Mr. Obama appears intent on marshaling support outside of Washington to bring pressure to bear inside. That could yield different results from those of the last two frustrating years, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
If nothing else, the president's push gives Democratic senators something to do after they tackle gun violence and immigration. Democrats in the Senate and House said they would work together on a bill to raise the minimum wage to $10.10.
''I think the Senate is hungry to do things that will help the middle class,'' Mr. Schumer said.
During his 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama proposed an even larger increase in the minimum wage, to $9.50 an hour. Jason Furman, the deputy director of the National Economic Council, said the net benefit to workers would be the same, or slightly greater, because of refundable tax credits that the administration granted to working families.
As he toured the factory, owned by Linamar of Canada, Mr. Obama showcased his goal of making the United States a magnet for manufacturing. Linamar, which makes parts for heavy-duty engines, recently opened its fourth American manufacturing plant here, taking over a closed Volvo construction equipment factory. The plant has hired 160 workers and plans to take on 40 more by the end of 2013.
''A few years ago, a manufacturing comeback in North Carolina, a manufacturing comeback in Asheville, may not have seemed real likely,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This plant had gone dark.''
Mr. Obama has a fondness for Asheville, a picturesque town of bookshops and bed-and-breakfasts in the shadow of the Blue Ridge. He vacationed here with his family, and mentioned that he and his wife, Michelle, mused about retiring here.
Voters in Asheville broke heavily for Mr. Obama over his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, making Buncombe County an island of blue in deeply red western North Carolina.
At the factory, south of Asheville, Mr. Obama reiterated his proposals for bolstering manufacturing, which include eliminating tax breaks for companies that move jobs overseas and offering incentives for them to build factories in the United States.
Among his new proposals is a $1 billion plan, modeled on one in Germany, to create a network of 15 institutes that would develop new industries. He extolled a pilot project in Youngstown, Ohio, that he said had turned a shuttered factory into a lab where workers are honing skills in three-dimensional printing.
Linamar's decision to put its plant here in 2011 predated most of the president's proposals, but officials said these ideas would encourage other companies to do likewise.
Mr. Obama boasted of his record in luring well-paying manufacturing jobs back home. ''After shedding jobs for more than 10 years, our manufacturers have added about 500,000 jobs over the last three,'' he said.
He pointed to Ford, Caterpillar, Intel and Apple as examples of companies that had recently built plants or decided to make products in the United States after investing abroad.
The flicker of life in manufacturing is one of the more persuasive parts of Mr. Obama's case that the country has made progress on his watch.
Even the return of manufacturing jobs shows some evidence of tailing off. The Labor Department said employment in the sector was flat in January and essentially unchanged since July.
Mr. Furman said the leveling-out reflected depressed growth rates in Europe because of the euro crisis, which hurt American exports, as well as uncertainties over the fiscal negotiations at the end of 2012. Both of these, he said, were only temporary brakes.
Still, after inspecting the factory floor, with its highly automated milling and lathe machines, Mr. Obama struck a realistic note.
''I want to be honest with you,'' he said. ''We're not going to bring back every job that's been lost to outsourcing and automation over the last decade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama boarding Air Force One on Wednesday after his visit to an engine-parts factory near Asheville, N.C., where he spoke about making the United States a magnet for manufacturing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOSEPH CROWLEY (57%); ROY BLUNT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (94%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



506 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Scorecard For Colleges Needs Work, Experts Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

 BODY:
The steps that President Obama promised in his State of the Union address to control college costs and give consumers more information on the prices and values of individual colleges drew tepid responses on Wednesday from educational groups, who said the measures seemed generally positive but had many blanks to be filled in.
As Mr. Obama promised on Tuesday night, the White House unveiled an interactive College Scorecard Web site on Wednesday morning that allows anyone to retrieve the net cost -- not the full ''sticker price'' -- of attending a particular college, along with data on student loan repayment and the loan default and graduation rates. 
The new site follows other steps the administration has taken -- including the introduction of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's online college cost-comparison tool, and the creation of a uniform ''shopping sheet'' of financial information, since adopted by many colleges, to enable families to make apples-to-apples comparisons that had been elusive.
But some of the data in the new scorecard is a few years old, and most of it has been available from other sources, notably the federal government's own College Navigator site. Further, the information is presented as averages and medians that might have little relevance to individual families. The scorecard does connect to each institution's net price calculator, which allows individualized cost estimates, but it does not provide side-by-side comparisons of multiple schools, as other government sites do.
''This puts the key data together in a consumer-friendly way, which I think is important, because even motivated and informed consumers have a hard time finding and interpreting the data,'' said Lauren Asher, president of the Institute for College Access and Success, a nonprofit group that works to make it easier to get information about colleges.
But her group complained that the borrowing and default figures in the scorecard were misleading, and said it was ''two steps forward, one step back.''
The scorecard is ''not a game-changer as much as the administration would like to believe,'' said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education, a major association of colleges and universities.
A spokeswoman for the federal Department of Education said the scorecard would ''help families easily compare schools on value and affordability,'' but said the department could not yet elaborate on the plans.
One highly anticipated element of the scorecard would show how the recent graduates of each school fare in the job market and how much money they are making, fulfilling Mr. Obama's promise to show ''where you can get the most bang for your educational buck.''
But that tool does not exist yet -- the scorecard simply says that the Department of Education is working on it -- and experts say it would probably require a change in federal law to put it into effect. The 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act prohibits the government from keeping the kind of information that would be needed: tracking millions of people's educational backgrounds.
Similar information is already available, though it is not as complete as what the federal government could produce by tapping into tax return data. PayScale, a company that analyzes payroll data for millions of workers, publishes annual rankings of colleges based on graduates' long-term earnings. And another group, College Measures, is working with several states to develop a system for rating the economic success of recent graduates by matching information from the colleges in those states to income data collected by the unemployment insurance programs.
''This is one of the most fundamental pieces of information that everybody's been looking for,'' said Mark Schneider, president of College Measures, and a former commissioner of the federal government's National Center for Education Statistics.
In his speech, the president also reiterated his call to tie some forms of federal student aid to the same kind of college performance criteria.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



507 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Small Businesses Still Struggle, and That's Impeding a Recovery

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
In the recovery so far, small businesses have largely been left behind. Initially, loans were hard to come by and consumers weren't shopping. Now, small-business owners say, Washington is throwing up additional roadblocks.
In survey after survey, owners of small businesses report unbridled pessimism about the economy. The small-business optimism index from the National Federation of Independent Business -- a major industry group for small businesses that surveys a sample of its members each month -- is stuck at recessionary levels. In January's report, released this week, expectations for business conditions six months from now were at their fourth-lowest reading in nearly 40 years.
Comparable measures for large companies have exceeded their prerecession levels. That is partly because big companies have a larger global footprint, so they are benefiting from strong growth in places like China and India. Small businesses are more closely tied to the leaden domestic economy, said Paul Ballew, chief analytic and data officer at Dun & Bradstreet, so weak growth at home is weighing more heavily on them. 
That gulf in optimism between small and large companies seems to widen, though, during occasions of greater policy uncertainty and Washington gridlock -- including the present. And while small businesses always grumble about taxes and regulation, they are especially likely to do so now. Asked by the National Federation of Independent Business about their ''single most important problem,'' small-business owners are now as likely to name taxes or government requirements as they are to name sales, which had reigned supreme from September 2008 until mid-2012.
''Politicians are uniformly quick to offer paeans to small businesses, but their actions have directly held back the sector, to the huge detriment of the economy,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors. ''The timing of this latest slump is particularly frustrating because the key precondition for a real small-business recovery -- the normalization of bank lending to commercial and industrial companies -- is within reach.''
It is unclear why policy and economic uncertainty would be taking a greater toll on small versus large businesses.
Smaller companies might have be more alarmed by headlines about the debt ceiling and fiscal tightening because they don't have armies of in-house analysts to advise them about relative risks, said Nicholas Bloom, an economics professor at Stanford who maintains an index on policy uncertainty.
Smaller businesses are also more fixated on domestic uncertainty because they are less diversified than big firms -- both geographically and in terms of product lines -- and so have smaller margins for error. The last several years have offered multiple false starts in the domestic economy (remember ''Recovery Summer'' in 2010?), and small businesses that acted on any sense of optimism often found themselves badly burned.
Ralph Jensen, president of Pro Data IV, a nine-person accounting and bookkeeping firm in Green Bay, Wis., has watched and learned. He would like to open another office in Appleton, about 30 miles south, and hire a new employee. But he is concerned about how another blowup in Washington, or at the very least lingering uncertainty about tax increases and spending cuts, might affect his clients' expansion plans.
Unlike a big company that can take a tax write-off for investing in space or equipment it ends up not needing, ''I just don't have much wiggle room if I fail,'' he said.
Before he would feel comfortable expanding, he said, ''I'd have to see my business is growing consistently for a long time, and I would have to have really, really strong faith in the fact that people were going to be opening more businesses around here that would be looking for services like mine.''
No matter what fiscal showdown Washington might have in the coming weeks, recent Congressional decisions have already had concrete effects on the economic security of small businesses.
Many business owners report continued confusion about what their health care liabilities will be in 2014, for example, when some employers will be required to offer health insurance and other changes to health benefits kick in.
Owners who sell directly to consumers say they are also concerned about the effects that Congress's recent tax increases, like the end of the payroll tax holiday, will have on their bottom line.
''You know I'm in kind of a unique situation in that I don't sell anything that anybody needs, the way you need groceries or some other things,'' said Jason Starkey, the owner of Starkey Products, in Orange City, Fla., which sells lighting products and other accessories that are installed in new cars. ''I know I've noticed the tax hike that just occurred, so people making $50,000 to $60,000, the people who buy our products, must be noticing it, too.''
The latest commercial and industrial lending numbers from the Federal Reserve suggest that the credit market for small businesses is healing. Rising housing values, too, are good for small-business borrowers, who often take out personal loans to finance their businesses.
But many small businesses are still struggling to have their credit needs met.
''The banks are not lending. They claim they are, but they're not,'' said Summit Kumar, president of Summit Telecom, a telecommunications company in Hicksville, N.Y. ''I got a line of credit from a bank five years ago and I paid it back. Now the same bank says I'm 'high-risk business' and turns me away.'' He acknowledges that his business has taken a hit in recent years and that he has had to lay off employees, but he says that his inability to get credit is part of the problem. He says he has had to resort to cash advance companies that expect him to pay back loans at exorbitant interest rates. One alternative lender said it would give him $50,000 if he paid it back with $75,000 six months later.
The struggles of small businesses ripple through the rest of the economy. They are reluctant to invest in expensive capital equipment, for one.
Mr. Starkey said that eight or nine years ago he could have justified investing in a $25,000 piece of equipment that would help him make a particular piece for a Ford Mustang, since he knew he would be able to earn back his investment in six months. But today, he doesn't know if he will be able to get a return in six months or two years, and ''having that kind of money tied up in one item is just too great a risk.''
Metrics of small-business hiring and hiring intentions are also very low, according to the National Federation of Independent Business and the Labor Department. That might partly explain why so many middle-age women have dropped out of the labor force in recent years, said Mr. Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisers, since women are more likely to be employed at smaller service sector companies than, say, manufacturers.
''Until the small-business sector starts to feel better,'' he said, ''the rest of the economy isn't going to feel much better either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Starkey owns an auto product business in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGG MATTHEWS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Ralph Jensen, president of Pro Data IV, is worried about tax increases and spending cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE ROEMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHART: Diverging Opinions on Business Conditions: Opinions on business conditions expressed by small and large businessmen have diverged in the last several years, according to surveys of the two groups -- with small-business owners becoming more pessimistic.
Percentage change in indexes since December 2006 (Sources: Institute for Supply Management
 National Federation of Independent Business) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); DEBT CEILING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



508 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Preventing a Currency War

 BODY:
The Group of 7 industrialized countries appeared to tamp down talk of a currency war in a statement this week that said markets should determine exchange rates and that countries should use fiscal and monetary policies to achieve faster growth. It may help curb fears that stagnant economies will devalue their currencies to make their exports more affordable relative to competitors. 
The statement came in response to sharp moves in currencies like the euro and the yen and calls by some Group of 7 countries like France for policies that could lead to competitive devaluations.
The yen, for instance, has fallen by about 11 percent against the dollar since the recent election in Japan of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has pushed for economic stimulus and more aggressive asset purchases by the Bank of Japan to fight deflation. Critics say those policies are aimed at lowering the value of the yen, which Mr. Abe's government has denied.
And last week President François Hollande of France proposed that euro-zone nations should adopt a policy to manage the value of the common currency to maintain the competitiveness of European goods. (The euro has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar and nearly 10 percent against the yen this year.)
Such misguided thinking can lead only to chaos and retaliation. If all countries were to competitively devalue their currencies, the result would be a downward spiral that would benefit no one, but could lead to high inflation. Certainly in Europe, altering exchange rates is not the answer; reviving economies will require giving up on austerity, which is choking demand and investment.
Developing countries like Brazil and Mexico also complain that looser monetary policy in industrialized nations can produce effects similar to currency manipulation. When central banks in countries like Japan and the United States pump more money into their financial systems, investors are driven to put their money into emerging markets where interest rates are higher. That pushes up currencies like the real and peso, making exports from those countries more expensive on the world market. Instead of responding to this effect by manipulating their exchange rates, those countries could protect themselves from volatile capital flows by regulating them.
With much of Europe in a recession, Japan struggling with deflation, and the weak American economy potentially falling back into a recession if the automatic spending cuts go through, the global economy is fragile. The last thing the world needs is a currency war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); DEVALUATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); DEFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); EURO (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



509 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Obama Bid for Trade Pact With Europe Stirs Hope

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and JACKIE CALMES; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and Jackie Calmes from Washington. James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels, Jack Ewing from Frankfurt, and Brian Knowlton from Washington.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- President Obama's call for a free-trade agreement between the United States and the European Union has unleashed a wave of optimism on both sides that a breakthrough can be achieved that would lift trans-Atlantic fortunes, not just economically but politically.
Experts cited tough economic times on both sides of the Atlantic and a perceived need among European leaders for a cause to unify their frayed union as major reasons that an agreement might be reached now, where past efforts have failed. But an even greater consideration, they said, was the growing economic might of China.
''There will be an agreement in the end,'' said Claudia Schmucker, head of the globalization and world economy program at the German Council on Foreign Relations. ''This will be the first time in 20 years where something can happen.''
Proponents hope that a comprehensive trade agreement will not only raise economic growth, but also lower prices for European and American consumers and give new impetus to a relationship that has lacked forward momentum almost since the end of the cold war. Talks could begin in late May or early June. 
Negotiations are not expected to be easy, with entrenched interests, especially in protected sectors of the agriculture industry, fighting to maintain their subsidies and preferences. European consumers have rejected the kinds of genetically modified crops that are commonplace in the United States but are known across the Atlantic as Frankenfoods.
Nevertheless, Mr. Obama's announcement was applauded by leading politicians and business groups in Europe, especially here in Germany, and so far the news has not provoked the instant union opposition in the United States that free-trade talks with underdeveloped, low-wage countries do.
Trade experts agreed that several new factors had converged to make an agreement more likely. The economic stagnation on both sides of the Atlantic has heightened the awareness that a prod to growth is needed. In a Democratic administration, free-trade agreements are much easier to reach with higher-wage, unionized countries like those in Europe that do not spook trade unions. And the cross-pollination between American and European companies, as in the auto sector, also is expected to blunt opposition from labor groups.
But China may present the single most compelling factor. There is an increasing awareness that to deal with the challenge of China's rapidly growing economy, Europe and the United States will have to learn to cooperate better.
''In every trade negotiation that I know of between Europe and the U.S., China is on their minds in terms of how can we use trade negotiations to better compete,'' said Jeffrey J. Schott, a senior fellow working on international trade policy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
While trade deals often take years to negotiate, a senior Obama administration official said that a pact is possible in as little as 18 months -- before the terms of the current European commissioners end. Even so, trade experts with experience from previous rounds say they are acutely aware of how often negotiations begin with optimism and grand plans and end with intractable fights between vested interests.
Karel De Gucht, the European Union's trade commissioner, said completing a trade pact could take two years. In an interview, he said that a deal ''will have a worldwide impact.'' The talks were ''about our place, and by our place I mean the United States and Europe, within a decade on the world economic scene,'' Mr. De Gucht said.
Mr. Obama devoted a single sentence to the topic in his State of the Union address, but that was what proponents of a trade deal had been hoping for. His statement set the stage for talks to remove tariff barriers and regulatory hurdles between the United States and the European Union, which are already each other's largest trading partners.
In his speech on Tuesday, Mr. Obama called the initiative the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, but the idea is an old one, much discussed during the Clinton administration under the name Tafta, something like a sequel to the Nafta deal.
Mr. Obama's reference to talks about a possible free-trade pact with the European Union was a late addition to his State of the Union address, according to a senior administration official, because a working group of the United States and the European Union had sent recommendations to Washington only on Tuesday that the two sides were close enough on various issues to pursue talks toward a comprehensive free-trade agreement, rather than a more limited one.
That high-level working group has spent most of a year discussing whether the talks would cover just tariff issues, or also regulatory questions on environmental, pharmaceutical and automobile industry issues. The administration official, who declined to be identified, said the Europeans, being eager ''for anything that looks like a growth strategy,'' seemed ''to be ready to take on some of the more difficult issues'' like agriculture.
There had been some frustration among supporters of a deal that more progress was not being made. ''We've had 20 years of failure on these trans-Atlantic initiatives,'' Mr. Schott said, adding, ''Before they signed on the dotted line they wanted to make sure there weren't any potholes that would trip them up.''
Tariffs on goods traveling between the United States and Europe are low, averaging about 3 percent, but proponents say that the savings from eliminating duties would still be significant because the volume of trade is so enormous. Trade in goods between Europe and the United States totaled $646 billion last year, according to United States government figures.
On Tuesday, two powerful American senators on the committee that would consider any draft trade agreement before it could get a Senate vote, warned that any deal must open Europe to American farm products.
Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the highest-ranking Republican on the committee, wrote that a trade deal presented an ''enticing opportunity'' in a letter to Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative. European leaders, including Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, have been pushing for a trade deal as a low-cost way of stimulating their struggling economies. The United States Chamber of Commerce and large companies like General Electric have also lobbied for an agreement.
Potentially more important than abolishing tariffs, but also much more complicated, would be a deal that harmonized regulations on products like food, cars, toys and pharmaceuticals. Automobile manufacturers would like to see agreement on safety and emissions standards for cars, reducing or eliminating the need to build different versions for the American and European markets.
Matthias Wissmann, head of the German Association of the Automotive Industry, said that harmonizing safety features would save several hundred dollars per automobile. Mr. De Gucht, who is expected to lead the talks on the European side, said that a deal could provide vital leverage over emerging powerhouses like China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Building a Mercedes-Benz near Stuttgart, Germany. Germans would like to standardize car safety features with the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DALDER/REUTERS) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (67%); AGRICULTURE (65%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



510 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By ADAM W. KEPLER

 BODY:
11:30 A.M. (Encore) GREMLINS 2: THE NEW BATCH (1990) The Gremlins take Manhattan in this sequel to the 1984 original. Billy and Kate (Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates, above) are now working at the Clamp Center, a Midtown skyscraper that becomes overrun by the titular critters. In The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that the film, directed by Joe Dante, ''speaks to the gleeful hell-raising monster in each of us, and it speaks with much more verve, cleverness and good humor than the film on which it is based.'' She added that Christopher Lee, in his role as a scientist, is an ''irresistibly ghoulish presence, and the precise nature of his medical experiments -- cows listening to self-help tapes, rats using their energy to run light bulbs -- give the film an added measure of fun.'' 
3 P.M. (HBO2) WIN WIN (2011) Paul Giamatti is Mike Flaherty, a down-on-his-luck lawyer and high school wrestling coach who hatches a plan to help support his family in harsh economic times. It almost immediately backfires when Mike finds himself the unintentional guardian of Kyle (Alex Shaffer, below right, with Mr. Giamatti), a teenager whose rough exterior also makes him a formidable wrestler. Amy Ryan is Jackie, Mike's extremely understanding and patient wife. This comedy, written and directed by Tom McCarthy (''The Station Agent''), ''goes a bit soft in places, protecting its characters from serious danger or tough moral reckoning,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''But the film's niceness is also central to its appeal, because nearly all of the characters are people you enjoy spending time with.'' He added: ''New Jersey, lately travestied as an inferno of vulgar hedonism on MTV, is here shown to be if not quite an earthly paradise, then at least a garden of reasonable middle-class delights.''
4:55 P.M. (SHO2) EXIT THROUGH THE GIFT SHOP (2010) This documentary began as an account of street art recorded over many years by Thierry Guetta as he followed artists like Shepard Fairey and Space Invader in Los Angeles. But Mr. Guetta became the unintentional subject of his own movie when the reclusive British artist Banksy decided he would take over editing and production duties. Writing in The Times, Jeannette Catsoulis said that the resulting film was ''like Banksy's best work, a trompe l'oeil: a film that looks like a documentary but feels like a monumental con.'' She added: '' 'Exit' could be a new subgenre: the prankumentary. Audiences, however, would be advised simply to enjoy the film on its face -- even if that face is a carefully contrived mask.''
7 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) 27 DRESSES (2008) Katherine Heigl, left, stars as a painfully organized New Yorker who takes the always-a-bridesmaid saying a little too seriously in this bit of romantic fluff from Anne Fletcher. Edward Burns plays her Mr. Potentially Right, who also happens to be her boss. In short order he falls for her flirtatious sister (Malin Akerman), who seems oblivious to the wound she has just inflicted on her sibling's heart. And James Marsden is the wedding columnist for the city's leading newspaper who publishes all the unsavory details.
7:30 P.M. (DirecTV) BORGEN Back-to-back episodes from the first season of this Danish political drama follow the prime minister of Denmark (Sidse Babett Knudsen) as she tries to gain power and influence without sacrificing her ideals.
8 P.M. (NBC) COMMUNITY Pierce (Chevy Chase) accidentally locks himself in his mansion's panic room. In ''Parks and Recreation,'' at 8:30, a black-tie gala organized by Leslie (Amy Poehler) and Ben (Adam Scott) is disrupted by a Pawnee emergency response drill.
9 P.M. (History) SWAMP PEOPLE In the Season 4 premiere Hurricane Isaac delays the beginning of alligator hunting season, forcing the hunters to come up with new tactics to make up for lost time.
10 P.M. (ABC) SCANDAL Ten months after the events of last week's episode, President Grant (Tony Goldwyn) still cannot bring himself to trust Olivia (Kerry Washington). Meanwhile the Pope & Associates team tries to solve a case for David Rosen (Joshua Malina), who has been framed for murder.
10 P.M. (FX) ARCHER Archer (voiced by H. Jon Benjamin) must save his former fiancée's boyfriend, who is trapped in outer space. But the boyfriend is also an evil cyborg and Archer's nemesis. ADAM W. KEPLER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER HOME VIDEO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (84%); FILM (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); WRESTLING (66%); STREET ART (64%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



511 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: The President's Second-Term Agenda

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama Vows Push to Lift Economy for Middle Class'' (front page, Feb. 13):
The most important statement in President Obama's State of the Union message on Tuesday night had nothing to do with policies, programs, plans or proposals. Instead it was four simple words -- ''they deserve a vote.'' In this case he meant that victims of gun violence and their families deserve a vote on gun legislation, but it could be said about almost any other piece of legislation that comes up. 
For some reason our elected officials seem to turn every piece of legislation into a stew -- and many of them are sure to dislike at least one of the ingredients, resulting in a negative vote.
If the various gun proposals are all thrown into one pot, senators and representatives will find it far too easy to say: ''I liked everything about it, with one exception. Therefore I couldn't support it.''
Instead, take the issue of universal background checks and vote yes or no on it. Do the same with assault weapons and magazines and armor-piercing bullets. Let them get voted on item by item, and maybe we will no longer get bogged down in rhetoric and accusations.
PHILIP BARNETT Scottsdale, Ariz., Feb. 13, 2013
To the Editor:
Arguably the most important part of the State of the Union address was when President Obama talked about the need for compromise to stop the never-ending cycle of being pushed to the brink of sequestration or government shutdowns. It is incredibly important for the leaders we send to Washington to put the well-being of the nation ahead of party interests. As President Obama said, ''The greatest nation on earth cannot keep conducting its business by drifting from one manufactured crisis to the next.''
STEVEN M. CLAYTON Ocean, N.J., Feb. 13, 2013
To the Editor:
The contrast between President Obama's State of the Union address and the Republican Party's response by Senator Marco Rubio is remarkable. When stripped of the specifics, the messages are clear:
President Obama: The needs of all Americans are best addressed by government actions for the masses.
Senator Rubio: Return to the policies that flow from ''survival of the fittest.''
Clearly, with that message the pretense of identity politics alone won't save the Republican Party.
THOMAS M. STEPHENS Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 13, 2013
To the Editor:
President Obama spoke to his base but also pushed for compromise. His brilliant speech had a lot of meat in it, and near the end it brought tears to many eyes as the president invoked the numerous tragedies in our country that cry out for stricter gun controls.
As the president begins his second term, his Inaugural Address last month and his State of the Union speech surely put the country on a forward path and help us believe that change will happen. It won't be easy, but these things never are. Lead us on, Mr. President!
JENNIFER DORN New York, Feb. 13, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARCO RUBIO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



512 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Neo-Classical Republicanism

BYLINE: By ISHMAEL REED. 
Ishmael Reed is a visiting scholar at the California College of the Arts and the author, most recently, of the novel ''Juice!'' and the essay collection ''Going Too Far.''

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif.
DURING Tuesday's State of the Union address, President Obama declared that ''Our housing market is healing, our stock market is rebounding and consumers, patients and homeowners enjoy stronger protections than ever before.''
Tell that to black Americans, who were hit harder than the rest of the country by the recession and are having a harder time recovering. That struggle is not a coincidence, or merely a result of past inequality. During the housing bubble, blacks were deliberately targeted for subprime loans: as Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said, the big banks committed ''systematic discrimination against blacks and Hispanics.'' 
One would think that Republicans, so eager to promote wealth building, would see an opening. Instead, they blamed blacks for the recession, accusing them, among other things, of taking out risky mortgages they couldn't afford.
But the response on the left has been equally frustrating. By advocating government action as the first response to black unemployment, ''progressive'' opinion makers encourage the popular stereotype that blacks and welfare are virtually synonymous (even though the bulk of handouts go to red-state whites).
With the Democrats in power and the Republicans at risk of going the way of the Whigs, according to their former chairman, Michael Steele, maybe the Republican Party should go back to its beginnings as the party of freedom.
Though Abraham Lincoln was the first Republican president, the party's first presidential candidate, in 1856, was the politician and soldier John C. Frémont, whose campaign promised ''free soil'' and ''free men.'' In 1861, as the general in charge of all territory west of the Mississippi, Frémont issued the first proclamation emancipating slaves, which Lincoln quickly revoked (the same Lincoln who frequently used racial epithets).
The Republican Party was influenced by the abolitionist Liberty Party, whose leading lights included William Lloyd Garrison, Susan B. Anthony and Frederick Douglass, who later said: ''I recognize the Republican Party as the sheet anchor of the colored man's political hopes and the ark of his safety.''
Likewise, in an 1872 letter to her fellow activist Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Anthony wrote: ''I shall continue to work for the Republican Party ... for what the party has done and promises to do for women.''
Why can't that emancipationist sentiment return today? The original Republicans were born from a challenge to the far right -- Lincoln gained influence by criticizing the Know-Nothing Party, the far right of his time. The same could happen today, gaining millions of adherents tired of the right's racism and the left's big-government stereotypes. Call it ''neo-Classical Republicanism.''
The door is wide open. As Mr. Obama's critics on the black left have noted, blacks haven't benefited from his presidency as much as other factions of the Democratic coalition. He's less of a Malcolm X than a Booker T. Washington, who would have endorsed the president's belief that ''a rising tide lifts all boats.''
Yet most of Mr. Obama's black critics, mainly from academia, want him only to move further left; they seem to lack confidence in the ability of blacks to create businesses, when blacks have been operating businesses since colonial times. Since 1979, when I moved to inner-city Oakland, I've observed the work ethic of those residents holding legitimate low-wage jobs as well as those engaged in the underground economy.
Why not send retired business leaders into our prisons to tutor those young criminal entrepreneurs on how to run a legitimate business? They have business savvy, just lousy lawyers. All they need is a different product. This would be the perfect project for Mitt Romney; it could become his legacy.
I also agree with Republicans who say that the public schools have failed black and Hispanic boys. (Judging from test scores, they've failed white boys, too.) They should do more to promote the successful ones as models. The English scores at the Oakland Military Institute and the Oakland School for the Arts, charter schools with a large Hispanic and black enrollment, exceed those of Oakland public schools.
Republicans should also be more open to programs like that of the educator and poet Haki Madhubuti, a founder of the Betty Shabazz International Charter School in Chicago. He focuses on African-American literature -- not just books about black dysfunction, readily available in the marketplace, but a variety of texts that give students alternative role models to those provided by the media, who are too often seen toting semiautomatic weapons.
And Republicans should oppose discrimination against blacks by banks and mortgage companies, which frequently deny blacks access to loans with which to begin businesses and purchase homes so that they can develop the equity toward a nest egg. And since the Republican ideal is a colorblind America, how about promoting a colorblind criminal justice system?
Rather than running on bizarre suggestions that Mr. Obama was influenced by his father's anticolonialism, wouldn't the billionaires in the Republican Party get more for their money by embracing proven solutions that address the real problems of black America?
After all, if the president and the Democrats won't do it, someone has to.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed essay on Thursday about Republican opportunities to woo black voters incorrectly described the abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison. He was a leading light of the American Anti-Slavery Society -- not of the Liberty Party, which broke away from the society in 1840.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); LAWYERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (89%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



513 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Selling Products by Selling Shared Values

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE purpose of marketing is to sell products, but there is also a new way, known as purpose, or purpose-based, marketing, to do it.
Purpose marketing, also called pro-social marketing, advertising for good and conscious capitalism, woos consumers with information about the values, behavior and beliefs of the companies that sell the products. The goal is to convince potential customers that the companies operate in a socially responsible manner -- marketing ''meaningful brands,'' to borrow a term from the Havas Media division of Havas -- that goes beyond tactics like making charitable contributions or selling a product or two in recyclable packaging.
Purpose marketing is becoming popular on Madison Avenue because of the growing number of shoppers who say that what a company stands for makes a difference in what they do and do not buy. 
Consumers are seeking ''authentic emotional connections'' with brands, said Mandy Levenberg, vice president and consumer strategist for cause and sustainable living at CEB Iconoculture, a consumer research and advisory firm that is part of the Corporate Executive Board Company, and the perception that certain ''shared values'' can increase loyalty.
Such consumers, frequently referred to as socially conscious shoppers, are assiduous in their research of corporate policies. That means a company doing something deemed at odds with its purpose-based mission statement or high-minded advertising campaign runs the risk of eliciting disappointment -- or even a sense of betrayal -- among socially conscious shoppers who consider themselves misled.
Thus, a company that pursues purpose marketing must communicate what its ''core values'' actually are, said Michael Simon senior vice president and chief marketing officer at the Needham, Mass., office of the Panera Bread Company restaurant chain.
For instance, Panera is ''a place to get great soup, salads, sandwiches, but we stand for so much more,'' he added, citing policies that include donating unsold baked goods, starting the Panera Bread Foundation, working with organizations like Feeding America and opening donation-based community restaurants under the Panera Cares banner.
''We talk about our values internally, but we've been reticent to leverage them,'' Mr. Simon said. That changed as a result of research that showed that communicating those attributes and actions could be ''more compelling to our customers'' than conventional pitches about meal deals or how ''my sandwich is better than the guy across the street's.''
So Panera and its new creative agency, Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago, are introducing a campaign, with a budget estimated at $70 million, that bears the slogan: ''Live consciously. Eat deliciously.''
The campaign will include television and radio commercials; digital, print and outdoor ads; and a significant presence on social media like Facebook and Twitter. The estimated 13 million customers who belong to the My Panera program will get a preview on Thursday. (The campaign is to be formally introduced on Monday.)
The effort is intended to convey that ''as a successful business, the people at Panera believe it's important to participate in the community beyond pure business,'' said Marshall Ross, Cramer-Krasselt's executive vice president and chief creative officer.
''Of course, Panera's not the only people to care about these things, deliver these things,'' he added, but ''when people who like the company for the food hear about the kind of company it is, it changes how they feel; they like it even more, for more emotional, more potent, more loyalty-driving reasons.''
Mr. Ross acknowledged that purpose marketing ''really does need to reflect real sincerity, without making people cynical.''
''Sometimes an ad agency's job is to conjure the story and express it in a fascinating way,'' he said. ''This time, our job was to shut up and listen to the real story.''
A television commercial that will help introduce the campaign starts with a narrator who says: ''When Panera began, we decided to get up every day and bake fresh bread from fresh dough in every bakery cafe. That decision made us wonder, what else could we do the right way?'' The narrator goes on to ask: ''Could we make food that lives up to our bread? And could it be food you can trust, with ingredients like antibiotic-free chicken?''
The commercial continues in a circular style, underlined by a Rube Goldberg machine that mimics the daily routine at a Panera restaurant. ''Could we start all this with a humble loaf of bread?'' the narrator concludes. ''We already have, and every morning we start again.''
For Bumble Bee seafood, Bumble Bee Foods is playing down traditional ads focused on products in favor of purpose-based efforts under a rubric, ''BeeWell for Life,'' meant to emphasize health and nutrition. Those efforts involve blogs, e-books, Facebook and a Web site.
''We're figuring out as a company, as people, how we can effect change,'' said David F. Melbourne Jr., senior vice president for marketing and corporate social responsibility at Bumble Bee Foods in San Diego. ''Rather than pushing out brand messaging, we're engaging consumers in a more meaningful way.''
In pursuing purpose marketing, initiatives ought to ''incorporate realistic goals,'' he added, to keep the campaigns from seeming too ethereal.
Bumble Bee Foods is primarily working with two agencies, Mr. Melbourne said, Geary LSF in San Diego and Fleishman-Hillard, part of the Omnicom Group. Spending for the ''BeeWell for Life'' efforts is estimated at $5 million.
Other brands known for purpose marketing include Kashi, sold by Kellogg, and Whole Foods Market. A newcomer to the trend, Union Bank, is introducing a campaign by Eleven in San Francisco that carries the theme ''Doing right, it's just good business.'' It features Edward James Olmos and Maya Angelou. Ms. Angelou? As in, ''I Know Why the Caged Bank Sings''?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Panera Bread's new campaign is an example of purpose-based marketing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES & SELLING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); CHARITIES (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%)

COMPANY: HAVAS SA (91%); PANERA BREAD CO (84%); CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (83%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (58%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: HAV (PAR) (91%); PNRA (NASDAQ) (84%); CEB (NYSE) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (84%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013



514 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: In India, Kisses Are on Rise, Even in Public

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS; Shreeya Sinha contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India may be the birthplace of the Kama Sutra, the ancient how-to manual on kissing and sex. But for many years, Indian couples did not widely embrace kissing, at least not in public. Now that is changing.
The Mahabharata, an epic poem written 3,000 years ago, is believed to include the first written description of mouth-to-mouth kissing. But anthropological studies done over the past century in India and elsewhere in Asia showed that kissing was far from universal and even seen as improper by many societies, said Elaine Hatfield, a professor of psychology at the University of Hawaii.
Sanjay Srivastava, a professor of sociology at the Institute of Economic Growth at Delhi University, said: ''Until recently, kissing was seen as Western and not an Indian thing to do. That has changed.''
In India, most marriages are still arranged, and the rate of sex before marriage is low, according to a government survey, so passionate kissing among the unmarried has long been discouraged. Many married couples refrained as well, at least in front of other people. But recent studies, backed by interviews with sociologists and psychiatrists in India, suggest that kissing's popularity has risen considerably. 
Chastity is viewed as highly desirable in India, and Indians, as a result, have also tended to view outward expressions of love, be they physical or verbal, with suspicion, said Dr. Roy Abraham Kallivayalil, president of the Indian Psychiatric Society.
''I don't tell my wife that I love her,'' Dr. Kallivayalil said. ''My father has never in 88 years told me that he loved me. We don't do that.''
A study led by James Witte, a professor of sociology at George Mason University in Virginia, reported that more than half of a set of volunteer respondents in India said they kissed at least several times a week. He solicited respondents through Internet portals, in English, but cautioned that his sample was not random. He said he reached people who were ''well educated, younger and more urban'' and who had access to the Internet.
In Professor Witte's study, of the 112 respondents in the kissing module, 24.1 percent said they kissed passionately ''many times a day,'' but when asked about kissing, hugging or caressing in public, 41.1 percent of participants chose ''hardly ever or not at all.''
A pivotal screen kiss reflected the changing romantic landscape here. Until the 1990s, kissing scenes were discouraged for decades by Indian film censors, and Shah Rukh Khan, a Bollywood heartthrob who is one of the world's biggest movie stars, has been teasing Indian audiences in dozens of films since then by bringing his lips achingly close to those of his beautiful co-stars. But his lips never touched any of theirs until he kissed the Bollywood bombshell Katrina Kaif in ''Jab Tak Hai Jaan,'' which was released in December 2012.
Mr. Khan tried to soften the impact by saying in a published interview that his director made him do it. But the cultural Rubicon had been crossed.
''That kiss was an incredibly important moment,'' Dr. Srivastava said. ''Shah Rukh Khan defines what is mainstream. If he does it, it becomes acceptable.''
Kissing's rise here may also reflect the growing power of young women in deciding who to marry, said Debra Lieberman, an assistant professor of evolutionary psychology at the University of Miami. In many cases, ''women are now able to select mates without having to negotiate as much with family members,'' Dr. Lieberman said.
And Dr. Avdesh Sharma, a psychiatrist practicing in New Delhi, said that his younger female patients are far more insistent than their mothers were that their emotional needs be met. That often involves kissing, he said.
''The terms and timing of intimacy used to be initiated and decided entirely by the man,'' Dr. Sharma said. ''That is no longer true.''
Indeed, while arranged marriages are still the norm in India, a growing share of young couples say that their views play a role in the process. If a young woman does not like the man her parents have picked, many families now offer her a veto.
Prakash Kothari, the founder of the department of sexual medicine at Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas Medical College in Mumbai, said that his female patients are much more demanding than they once were.
''For years, most Indian men used sex with their partners as a kind of sleeping pill, and few devoted any time to foreplay,'' Dr. Kothari said. ''Now, many women are able to ask for what they want.''
Aseem Chhabra, a columnist for The Mumbai Mirror, an English daily featuring local news, said public displays of affection are still a rare sight in India. ''It's not like you can walk on the streets of Delhi and Bombay and see people kissing. It's still a big taboo,'' he said.
''The educated 20-somethings are watching a lot more Hollywood films,'' he said. ''It's not like they are imitating, but they are getting inspired.''
Six years ago, Richard Gere caused a national scandal when he kissed the Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty during an AIDS-awareness event. Mr. Gere quickly fled India, leaving legal complaints and at least one arrest warrant in his wake. Ms. Shetty was criticized for failing to resist him.
A 2006 government-financed survey, the most recent available, found that less than 1 percent of female respondents and 5 percent of male ones said that they had had sex outside of marriage in the previous year. Other studies suggest that premarital sex rates are higher than reported in official surveys, but the numbers are still very low compared with those in the West.
Rajat and Neha, two 22-year-olds in New Delhi's majestic Lodi Gardens, agreed to discuss why they enjoy kissing when their parents had not done so, at least in front of them.
''Love,'' Rajat said simply as Neha nodded. Their parents' marriages were arranged; they hope to marry for love. They asked that their last names be withheld, however, in part because they are from different castes and fear that her parents would not approve.
Rajat and Neha expect to graduate from college this spring; they say their physical relationship has not gone beyond kissing and cuddling. They met four years ago in a park when he approached and asked if she would be his friend. She agreed but soon suspended the relationship for seven months while she studied for her last set of high school exams.
''It was very hard to spend a day without her,'' Rajat said. ''A single day.''
Soon after the exams, she called him. She had memorized his telephone number because she did not want her parents seeing the number in her phone.
''I knew he was waiting for me,'' Neha said.
They meet regularly in Lodi Gardens, which is far enough from their homes that discovery is unlikely. In contrast to parks in other Indian cities, the police in New Delhi rarely harass young couples in Lodi Gardens. But young men often sit and stare hungrily at kissing couples. On a recent afternoon, kissing couples in Lodi Gardens had the added burden of shooing away a foreign reporter clumsily asking for interviews.
Rajat and Neha say they plan to reveal their love to their parents sometime next year. In the meantime, they kiss -- igniting a bonfire of yearning that fairly leaps off their lips.
''Times have changed,'' Rajat said. ''We are different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A couple in a public park in New Delhi. Indians have long tended to view outward expressions of love with suspicion, but kissing is on the rise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANPREET ROMANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); FILM (83%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); POETRY (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (63%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (59%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013



515 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: BNP Paribas Earnings Fall on Write-Downs

BYLINE: DAVID JOLLY


HIGHLIGHT: France's largest bank, BNP Paribas, reported a 33 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit, to $688 million, as it wrote down the value of its Italian unit and booked an accounting charge on its own debt. 

 BODY:
Paris - BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, posted a fourth-quarter profit far below estimates on Thursday as it wrote down the value of its Italian unit and booked an accounting charge on its own debt.
The bank said net income fell to 514 million euros ($688 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, a 33 percent decline from the period a year earlier. The quarterly earnings were well below the figure of about 1 billion euros anticipated by analysts surveyed by Reuters, while revenue fell 3 percent, to 9.4 billion euros.
BNP Paribas, based in Paris, said it had recorded a good will impairment of 298 million euros on the value of its Banca Nazionale del Lavoro division because of expectations that the Italian central bank would raise capital requirements. It also booked a 286 million euro charge to revalue its own debt, an accounting requirement, as the market value of the debt had improved. 
Still, BNP Paribas noted, its 2012 net income of 6.5 billion euros, up 8.3 percent from 2011, was third among the world's biggest lenders, behind only JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo.
The bank's results were the second disappointment for French investors this week, after Société Générale - the country's second-largest listed bank - posted a fourth-quarter net loss of 476 million euros on Wednesday, roughly double what analysts had been expecting.
Jean-Laurent Bonnafé, the BNP Paribas chief executive, said in a statement that despite a weak economy, the bank had achieved "solid results." Under Mr. Bonnafé, the bank's share price has risen by a third in the last year, as BNP Paribas, like other euro zone banks, has sought to reduce its reliance on dollar investors, raised its reliance on deposits and restructured in response to the sovereign debt crisis.
With Europe moribund, the bank said it planned to focus on providing services in higher-growth markets, including Turkey and the Asia-Pacific region, while strengthening its investment banking offerings in the United States. Next year, it said it would begin restructuring to "simplify the way the group functions and improve operating efficiency," with 1.5 billion euros "in transformation costs spread out over three years."
The bank said the plans would allow it to save 2 billion euros a year beginning in 2015, without closing any businesses. Shares in BNP Paribas rose 2.8 percent in morning trading in Paris on Thursday.
BNP Paribas said its investment banking business had cut its dollar funding needs by $65 billion. And it noted that it was ahead of most global peers in adapting to new capital regulations, attaining a common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of an institution's ability to withstand financial shocks, of 9.9 percent by the end of 2012 under the accounting rules known as the Basel III regime. The bank said it had cut its risk-weighted assets by 62 billion euros during 2012.
Despite the weaker-than-expected profit, analysts generally welcomed the results. 
Credit Suisse analysts said the "results showed significant progress in terms of group strategy." Jon Peace, an analyst at Nomura in London, said in a research note that the bank's efforts to improve its capital position had left it with "a superior balance sheet."
Pretax profit earned by the bank's investment banking business rose nearly sixfold to 266 million euros, from 46 million euros. The bank said the unit's bad loan provisions rose to 206 million euros, compared with 72 million euros in the third quarter of 2012. The increase, it said, was the result of "a provision set aside for one specific loan." It did not provide further details.
An earlier version of this article misstated the magnitude of the increase of the fourth-quarter pretax profit at the bank's investment banking business. The unit's profit rose nearly sixfold, to 266 million euros, from 46 million euros; it did not rise 29 percent from a year earlier. 

        
I.M.F. Chief's Change of Tune on Bank Capital
        
BNP Paribas Sells Stake in Real Estate Firm for $2 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EURO (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; BNP Paribas; France; BNP Paribas|BNPQY|other-OTC; Financial Services; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (56%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BNP Paribas

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (92%); BNP (BIT) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GLE (PAR) (90%); GLE (BIT) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%) BNP Paribas; BNPQY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (67%) France

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



516 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Feb. 14

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Optimism about a trans-Atlantic free trade agreement; Tunisians question their country's progress since the Arab Spring; Japan still loves the fax machine; Galliano touches in an Oscar de la Renta collection; a Singaporean suspect in the soccer match-fixing investigation. 

 BODY:
 NEWS President Obama's call for a free-trade agreement between the United States and the European Union has unleashed a wave of optimism on both sides that a breakthrough can be achieved that would lift trans-Atlantic fortunes, not just economically but politically. Nicholas Kulish reports from Berlin, and Jackie Calmes from Washington. 
A former Tibetan Buddhist monk protested Chinese rule by killing himself through self-immolation this month, becoming the 100th person to do so inside Chinese-governed Tibet, according to reports on Wednesday by Tibet advocacy groups. Edward Wong and Jim Yardley report.
Europol, the European police agency, said Wednesday that it had dismantled one of the most efficient cybercrime organizations to date, led by Russians who had managed to extort millions of euros from online users across more than 30 countries. Raphael Minder reports from Madrid.
Following the murder of a leading opposition politician, Tunisians are asking whether the Arab Spring, which began in their country, has accomplished much of anything. Aida Alami reports from Tunis.
Japan is renowned for its robots and bullet trains, and has some of the world's fastest broadband networks. But it also remains firmly wedded to a pre-Internet technology - the fax machine - that in most other developed nations has joined answering machines, eight-tracks and cassette tapes in the dustbin of outmoded technologies. Martin Fackler reports from Tokyo.
Alarmed by the speed at which the steel industry is becoming a symbol of Europe's economic decline, a top European Union official has called for the world's biggest steel maker to postpone planned job cuts and factory closings. The company, ArcelorMittal, has said no. Stanley Reed reports from London.
Minimum wage policies vary widely across the European continent, offering examples for both sides of the argument over whether wages should be increased in the United States. Liz Alderman reports from Paris.
France is still wine country, but there are signs of changing tastes. Brooklyn Brewery's strategy is to start small and offer its specialty beers in carefully chosen outlets. Linda Hervieux reports from Paris.
 ARTSThe closest thing to a unanimous critical hit at the Berlin International Film Festival is "Before Midnight," shown out of competition on the occasion of a career award for its director, Richard Linklater. Dennis Lim reports from Berlin.
 FASHION John Galliano made a brief appearance as Oscar de la Renta's "artist in residence." Suzy Menkes reviews the New York shows.
 SPORTS Authorities in Europe are homing in on a Singaporean man as they examine a scandal that could involve hundreds of fixed soccer games. Gaia Pianigiani and Thomas Fuller report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (84%); SPORTS TAMPERING (83%); LAYOFFS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); MURDER (76%); CYBERCRIME (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); CLOSINGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); BROADBAND (68%); BEER & ALE (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%); PLANT CLOSINGS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); SOCCER (62%); BREWERIES (61%); FESTIVALS (60%); FILM (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (56%); RELIGION (56%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN POLICE OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (66%); MT (PAR) (66%); MT (NYSE) (66%); MT (AMS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (66%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); TUNISIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



517 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Keystone Protests Resume, But None Against Oil Imports from Nigeria?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: White House protests resume over a pipeline from Canada even as oil keeps flowing to the U.S. from despoiled Nigeria. 

 BODY:
I've got nothing against the passions of those -- including friends of mine -- pushing hard to persuade President Obama not to let the Keystone XL pipeline move forward and carry bitumen from Canadian deposits to United States Gulf Coast refineries. More were arrested this week.
But that effort misses the reality that as long as oil demand is high in the United States and elsewhere, there will be environmental risks and often terrible social costs in farflung and loosely governed places. 
A case in point is the Niger River delta, which for decades has been tapped for its large crude reserves. Even though United States oil imports from Nigeria have been dropping, the country still vies with Iraq for fifth place on the Energy Department's top-ten list of importers. The country is an absolute mess when it comes to the impacts of the oil boom on both nature and people.
This is illustrated starkly in a slide show and post on the Lens Blog showcasing photographer Samuel James's images of communities that illegally tap pipelines and refine fuels from pirated oil. (There are more in Harper's Magazine). Here's one photo:
Read the Energy Information Administration briefing on Nigeria and you'll see that all that production hasn't done much for the citizens of the country. More than 80 percent of energy still comes from burning wood or other biomass despite the oil and gas boom. (There could be abundant propane and other fuels for local use, but these are "orphan fuels" -- an echo of orphan drugs -- as I wrote in 2009.)
And please look back at the powerful feature story written for The Times by Adam Nossiter in 2010, when the oil concern here in the United States was not Keystone, but the Gulf of Mexico rig disaster and gusher. Here's a relevant excerpt, focusing on the views of those living in the Niger River delta: 
Though their region contributes nearly 80 percent of the government's revenue, they have hardly benefited from it; life expectancy is the lowest in Nigeria.
"President Obama is worried about that one," Claytus Kanyie, a local official, said of the gulf spill, standing among dead mangroves in the soft oily muck outside Bodo. "Nobody is worried about this one. The aquatic life of our people is dying off. There used be shrimp. There are no longer any shrimp."
In the distance, smoke rose from what Mr. Kanyie and environmental activists said was an illegal refining business run by local oil thieves and protected, they said, by Nigerian security forces. The swamp was deserted and quiet, without even bird song; before the spills, Mr. Kanyie said, women from Bodo earned a living gathering mollusks and shellfish among the mangroves....
The spills here are all the more devastating because this ecologically sensitive wetlands region, the source of 10 percent of American oil imports, has most of Africa's mangroves and, like the Louisiana coast, has fed the interior for generations with its abundance of fish, shellfish, wildlife and crops.
Local environmentalists have been denouncing the spoliation for years, with little effect. "It's a dead environment," said Patrick Naagbanton of the Center for Environment, Human Rights and Development in Port Harcourt, the leading city of the oil region. [ Read the rest.]
Following his State of the Union address, the president outlined fresh steps to curtail American demand for oil, along with increased domestic production.
I think this approach makes sense. There's much, much more that can be done to cut energy waste here on many fronts and there are plenty of signs that most Americans strongly support such a push -- if someone leads the way. Obama can do that, if he moves from the occasional speech to making this a prime imperative for the nation.
And I would rather have the oil that we do use coming increasingly from responsibly managed and regulated sources here than the ends of the Earth and countries where oil wealth benefits few and the costs of extraction are borne by many.

        
More on Tar, Oil, Pipelines and Presidents
        
Keystone Oil Pipeline Decision Moved After Election
        
Can Obama Escape the Alberta Tar Pit?
        
Obama's Chance for a Fresh Start on a Climate-Smart Energy Quest
        
More On a Quest for Common Ground on Climate Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); PROPANE (77%); BIOMASS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ETHICS (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); ARRESTS (57%); ORPHAN DRUGS (50%) Canada; Harper's Magazine; Keystone Pipeline System; Nigeria; Obama, Barack; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; United States; activism; Africa; Economics; energy; Ethics; human rights; oil

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%) Harper's Magazine

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%); NIGERIA (95%); NIGER (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%) Canada; Nigeria; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



518 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: With Heinz Deal, an 'Elephant' for Berkshire

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: When Berkshire Hathaway agreed to buy the H.J. Heinz Company on Thursday, the deal had some of the classic hallmarks of Warren E. Buffett. Here is a look at some of Berkshire's deals in recent years. 

 BODY:
When Berkshire Hathawayagreed to buy the H.J. Heinz Company on Thursday, the deal had some of the classic hallmarks of Warren E. Buffett.
For one, the billionaire investor is adding another old-time American brand to his portfolio, which includes Dairy Queen and Fruit of the Loom. 
 But the $23 billion deal, in which he is teaming up with 3G Capital Management, is also notable for its size. In 2011, Mr. Buffett said he was on the hunt for bigger acquisition prey. With the Heinz deal, he has bagged his "elephant." 
Below is a look at some of Berkshire's deals in recent years. 
 November 2012: Oriental Trading for $500 million | Mr. Buffett's deals have recently been on the relatively small side, including the $500 million purchase of the Oriental Trading Company. The deal ended a series of ownership changes for the catalog-based seller of arts and crafts.
 August 2011: Bank of America investment of $5 billion | With many investors feeling skittish about big banks, Berkshire announced plans to invest $5 billion in Bank of America, a vote of confidence in the company, which was struggling under the weight of its mortgage problems. Bank of America's shares have rebounded strongly since then, as the bank has tried to put its legal woes behind it.
 March 2011: Lubrizol for $9 billion | After telling shareholders that Berkshire had reloaded its "elephant gun," Mr. Buffett agreed to buy the Lubrizol Corporation, a chemical maker specializing in lubricants, for $9 billion in cash. The deal was touched by controversy after the revelation that David L. Sokol, who was then a top deputy to Mr. Buffett, purchased a stake in Lubrizol while orchestrating a potential takeover. The Securities and Exchange Commission ultimately decided not to file insider trading charges against Mr. Sokol.
 November 2009: Burlington Northern Santa Fe for $26 billion | Berkshire agreed to buy the 77.4 percent of Burlington Northern Santa Fe it did not already own for $26 billion in cash and stock. Including Berkshire's previous investment in the railroad operator and the assumption of $10 billion of debt, the deal came to $44 billion. "It's an all-in wager on the economic future of the United States," Mr. Buffett said at the time.
 October 2008: General Electric investment of $3 billion | Mr. Buffett bought into General Electric at a steep discount, paying $3 billion for perpetual preferred stock. The company agreed to repay the investment in September 2011.
 September 2008: Goldman Sachs investment of $5 billion | In the depths of the financial crisis, Berkshire agreed to invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs. With the Berkshire backing, the investment bank also raised $5 billion in a stock offering. Goldman agreed to repay the investment in March 2011, leaving Berkshire with a $1.7 billion profit.
 April 2008: Wrigley financing of $4.4 billion | As part of a $23 billion deal by Mars to buy the chewing-gum company Wrigley, Berkshire provided $4.4 billion of loans. "Those of you who know me, know that I have been a big fan of Wrigley's business model for many years, and I love their products," Mr. Buffett said at the time.
 December 2007: Marmon Holdings stake for $4.5 billion | On Christmas Day, Mr. Buffett agreed to buy a 60 percent stake in Marmon Holdings from the Pritzker family for $4.5 billion, with plans to gradually increase his stake over the ensuing years.

        
Heinz Gives Taste of New Buyout Sauce
        
Buffett Said to Have Weighed Deal for NYSE Euronext

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); CHEMICALS (67%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Buffett, Warren E; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (94%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); ORIENTAL TRADING CO (83%); LUBRIZOL CORP (82%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (94%); BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (94%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (94%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (94%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (94%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (82%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (58%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (58%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



519 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Interpreters' Accomplishments Fail to Translate Into Visas

BYLINE: NATALY KELLY


HIGHLIGHT: On the battlefield, individuals with language skills are rare and highly prized. Once their job is done, however, they do not always receive much protection from the militaries they serve. 

 BODY:
On the battlefield, individuals with language skills are rare and highly prized. "Your interpreter is way more important than your weapon," explained Cory Schulz, an Army major embedded with Afghan troops. Indeed, an adept interpreter can help a soldier avoid the need to use a weapon in the first place. An interpreter in the field not only translates sentences from one language into another, but can help identify a local accent or tell soldiers what the graffiti on a wall means while peering out of a moving vehicle. Small actions like these, while not technically even part of the interpreter's job description, often protect troops by keeping them out of harm's way.
However, interpreters do not always receive a similar level of protection from the militaries they serve. They soon become prime targets for death threats and assassination attempts. Interpreters in Iraq were 10 times more likely to be killed than the American troops they supported. Accurate numbers of interpreters killed in battle in both wars are difficult to obtain, but most sources agreed that at least 300 were killed in Iraq, and at least 80 in Afghanistan. When the soldiers go home, interpreters and their families often have no choice but to flee, becoming refugees or asylum seekers. A visa can make the difference between life and death. 
Visa policies vary significantly from one country to the next. New Zealand, which deployed only 145 troops to Afghanistan, resettled 23 interpreters and 50 dependents. Denmark sent just 545 troops to Iraq, but the country gave asylum to 120 military interpreters plus family members. Canada, which sent 3,000 troops to Afghanistan, granted 550 visas to interpreters.
By comparison, the United States sent more than two million troops to Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2007 and 2008, a special immigrant visa program was created to allow Iraqi and Afghan interpreters to receive visas. The number of visas was limited to 500 per year, but was reduced to just 50 per year starting in 2009. So, a total of 1,200 visas were authorized under this program from 2007 through 2012. Visas can be obtained under other programs, but an enormous backlog of interpreters still waits to receive an answer.
Meanwhile, language-skilled individuals are in high demand and low supply in the United States. Many government agencies face a severe shortage of skilled linguists for "critical languages," those deemed important for defense and intelligence activities. These languages include Arabic, a dialect of which is spoken in Iraq, and Pashto and Dari, which are spoken in Afghanistan.
The government's lack of translators is longstanding. On September 10, 2001, Al Qaeda operatives warned, "Tomorrow is zero hour," and "The match is about to begin." It is not clear whether these intercepted messages, which were spoken in Arabic, were a reference to the impending attacks. But regardless, they were not translated until September 12. Similarly, the F.B.I. failed to review 7.2 million files collected by counterterrorism investigators from 2006 to 2008, due in great part to a lack of translation resources.
Government agencies continue to struggle to find enough people who can teach critical languages to diplomats, translate documents, and even do monolingual work like scanning news media or listening to recordings in another language for intelligence purposes. The agencies face several barriers. The number of candidates who speak these languages and live in the United States is limited. Military contractors can offer higher salaries to language-skilled workers, leaving the government with even fewer potential recruits. Many people cannot obtain the required security clearances, and not everyone wants to relocate or work for the Defense Department.
In short, the government has reduced the number of visas for interpreters who are skilled in some of the very languages it requires for national security but cannot successfully recruit from its existing population. President Obama plans to overhaul the immigration system in the coming months. The new legislation reportedly will enable "highly skilled foreigners" to remain in the country.
But will the list of desired skills include language skills? The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics has data showingthat translation and interpreting are among the fastest-growing professions in the country. The language services market supports not only government agencies, but the manufacturing and automotive sectors, the health care industry and many other important areas of the economy.
Many military interpreters have language skills that could instantly be put to use here at home in the public and private sectors. Granted, not every interpreter in Iraq or Afghanistan is perfectly bilingual. Most never had the opportunity to perfect their skills in an English-speaking country. However, even in the cases of interpreters with relatively limited English, it would likely be faster to help them improve their basic English than to teach an Anglophone to speak Arabic or Dari from scratch.
Not all interpreters deserve visas. There have been several cases of interpreters who misrepresented their abilities or even lied about the languages they spoke, putting troops' lives at risk. Others have been guilty of abandoning troops, stealing and other charges. However, there are thousands of interpreters out there who served bravely alongside American troops and who do deserve visas. Their lives were at risk when they served, and they remain at risk today.
Helping those interpreters is simply the right thing to do, but adding more language-skilled individuals to the American workforce would also benefit our government and economy. The wars in which we are engaged today and the battlefields on which we carry them out are changing. If anything, the need for linguistic preparedness is only intensifying. For that very reason, perhaps if we pay closer attention to our country's language strategy and create immigration policies that support it, those interpreters and translators can prevent us from getting into situations where we need to use weapons in the first place - just as they do on the battlefield.
 Nataly Kelly is the chief research officer atCommon Sense Advisory, a market research firm in Boston. She is a co-author of Found in Translation: How Language Shapes Our Lives and Transforms the World (Perigee/Penguin USA).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (87%); LINGUISTICS (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); ASSASSINATION (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); REFUGEES (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Afghanistan; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011; Iraqi Citizens; Legal issues; Politics; Voices

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



520 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for a New England Trawling Decision

BYLINE: EMMA BRYCE


HIGHLIGHT: NOAA will decide whether to reopen some New England waters to trawling and dredging for groundfish. 

 BODY:
In late December, the New England Fisheries Management Council, a body made up largely of commercial fishermen, voted to recommend that bottom trawling and dredging be allowed to resume in more than half of the protected waters that currently shelter New England's recovering groundfish stocks. The issue now goes up to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Foes of greater dredging link the proposal to an expectation that fishing quotas in the area would be reduced, as they were the following month. "People are faced with having to cut back on their fishing, and their response is, 'You have to give us access to these areas to allow us relief,'" said Jud Crawford, the science and policy manager for the Northeast Fisheries Program at the Pew Charitable Trusts. 
It is the great fishing conundrum in New England waters. Fish in the Gulf of Maine are still recovering from a prolonged period of exploitation that dealt a particularly severe blow to the region's cod population. Since the 1990s, regulators have been trying to forge a better relationship between fishermen and fish, working to help the fish populations recover while also rebuilding the local industry. 
The closing in the 1990s of 8,500 square miles of fishing territory to the bottom trawlers and dredgers, which can scoop up large quantities and damage groundfish habitat, was part of that strategy. Some groups say the proposal to reopen over 5,000 square miles of that area now stands to harm both the fishermen and the fish.

Tim Tower, a recreational fisherman from Ogunquit, Me., is among those who hold that view. Mr. Tower, 61, has made his living off New England's seas since he received a lobster license at age 9 and now commands the Bunny Clark, a vessel for recreational fishermen seeking to catch record-breaking fish.
Some years back, he recalled, another fisherman happened upon a sweet spot packed with pollock in the western Gulf of Maine. That fisherman drew up 90,000 pounds of fish in one morning, Mr. Tower said. "Ninety thousand pounds of anything is a lot," he said, adding that it took over a decade for that particular area to become fishable again. 
Seeing how swiftly a population can collapse has led Mr. Tower to support closed areas. Clearly he has a bias, since the protections don't apply to recreational fishermen, he admitted. Only large-scale fishing vessels using gear that rakes up the bottom are denied entry to those areas. 
But Mr. Tower said he also recognizes that stocks are still so low that the fishermen cannot even reach their quotas. So "fisherman want another way to catch more fish," he said - and the coveted closed areas fit the bill.
Michelle Bachman, a fishery analyst with the New England Fisheries Management Council, emphasized that its December vote was not about opening closed areas outright, but rather allowing fishermen who are part of managed sectors "to request exemption from the closed area regulations." 
Andrew Applegate, another fishery analyst with the council, said that when the council analysts evaluated the groundfish, they found few differences in maturity, size, length and weight between the fish in the protected areas and those found just outside.
As a result, she said, "the analysis from a biological perspective was that allowing these interventions is probably O.K." She added that the remaining off-limits portions of that 8,500-square-mile stretch would be left intact and undisturbed.
But for Dr. Crawford of the Pew Trusts' Northeast Fisheries Program, the council's vote suggests a mental disconnect between fish and habitat. Lower fishing quotas cannot serve as a substitute for habitat protection, he said. But increasingly, he said, protected areas are treated as "an artifact of an outdated system of management" by some fishing councils.
Mr. Tower said that if more areas are opened up to the efficient sweeping motions of dredgers and trawlers, "we will just lose more bottoms" - the intricate ecosystems where groundfish hide and spawn. Viewed from underwater, he noted, large-scale fishing vessels leave stark troughs behind on the sea floor as they dredge and trawl. "It's like tilling a field," he said.
NOAA is expected to decide whether to throw open the gates this spring, possibly in May. Mr. Tower said he hoped that challenges to the move would get a full hearing.
"There are no recovering species in the Gulf of Maine except maybe the dogfish," he said. "It's the lowest I have ever witnessed it anecdotally in my lifetime." While commercial fishermen face tough economic times, fishing technologies are bound to advance, and the fish need protections that match up, Mr. Tower said.
Ultimately, the fishing interests that have steered the management council's positions could be the downfall of fishermen if diluted stocks are stripped of their modest havens, he warned. 
"The fishermen have been given reins to manage the fisheries and they haven't been able to do it," Mr. Tower said. "One or two bad choices could ruin the fisheries for the rest of our lives."
An earlier version of this post misspelled the surname of a fishery analyst with the New England Fisheries Management Council. She is Michelle Bachman, not Bachmann. 

        
Italy and Others Cited for Illegal Fishing
        
A Rebound for 6 Fish Populations
        
The Sturgeon's Looming Endangered Listing
        
Battle Brews Over a Small, Vital Fish
        
New York Maps Viable Offshore Wind Power

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (96%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (93%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FISHES (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FISHING LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHERIES LANDINGS (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (74%); OCEANS (71%); DEREGULATION (66%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); SHELLFISH FISHING (58%) dredging; fisheries; groundfish; New England Fisheries Management Council; noaa; trawling; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Oceans and Seas; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; New England Fishery Management Council; Pew Charitable Trusts; Gulf of Maine; New England States (US); Breaking News; Oceans; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (91%) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; New England Fishery Management Council; Pew Charitable Trusts

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Gulf of Maine; New England States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



521 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Time Inc., the Unwanted Party Guest Being Pushed Out the Door

BYLINE: DAVID CARR


HIGHLIGHT: Time Inc. has been an integral part of the Time Warner brand, but it long ago lost salience as a significant component in the company's business. 

 BODY:
 12:43 p.m. | Updated How toxic have print assets become? This toxic: Media companies have begun to quarantine them.
On Wednesday, Time Inc., the largest magazine publisher in the country, found itself at the wrong end of a 10-foot pole. Its corporate parent, Time Warner, which has a broad and lucrative array of entertainment assets, was making plans to spin off much of the tattered print unit in a shotgun marriage with Meredith, a Midwest-based company that was trying to do much the same thing. 
Under the plan, which is far from final, the two companies would contribute magazines to create a new, publicly held company that would be left to make its own way.
In shearing off its print division, Time Warner is following a path laid down by News Corporation, which announced last year that its entertainment assets and print assets would be split into two divisions. Its stock hit a five-year high when the plan was floated last June, and sometime early this summer there will be two companies - Fox Group and News Corporation - that will allow the fast-growing film and television assets to grow unencumbered by legacy print businesses. 
Print publishing may have lost significant currency with consumers and advertisers in a digital age, but investors have a far deeper animus. They see little possibility that the business as a whole will right itself, and they find its lack of growth wanting compared to the cable, television and film businesses that are now the epicenter of the media business.
Time Inc. may be baked into the name of Time Warner, but it long ago lost salience as a significant player in the company's business. Time Inc. earnings dropped 5 percent last year, and the division now contributes less than 12 percent of overall sales at the company. The Time & Life building, an edifice standing tall in the middle of Midtown, was long a revered totem of the publishing business. To people in the industry who came of age back when things were good, Time Inc. was legend, having grown up not just on the force of its journalism but on tales of editors' offices the size of racquetball courts and liquor carts rumbling through the hall spreading cheer and an aura of privilege.
But the news of a possible sale of its magazine division came at a time when Time Inc. is laying off some 6 percent of its global work force, and many of those who remained wondered whether their jobs, if they continue to have them, might require them to move to Des Moines, the headquarters of Meredith. 
It was a bit of a moment for the people at Time Inc. and for the publishing business as a whole. Even though Time Warner has said that it will hang on to Time, Fortune, Sports Illustrated and Money, the profits from those Olympian sounding titles are meager, less than 10 percent of the division. Time Warner is keeping them in part because they might bolt on to a reconceived CNN television network, and in part because, well, no one wanted them. 
Many wonder what it means for the actual magazines and no one knows. Because the deal is in the formative stages, it will all be about the details. Time, Fortune, Sports Illustrated and Money, all male-oriented, news driven publications, seem likely to stay with the mother brand. People are particularly interested in Time because of its enduring cultural status, its ability to memorialize events or trends with its cover, and its occasional large role in the coverage of news developments. Now it will be part of an ad hoc news division with CNN.
Bad relationships between Time Inc. and CNN had always made collaborations difficult, but Jeff Zucker, the new head of CNN, is said to be very interested in the content of those magazines, especially Time. For instance, for the past few years Time has announced its Person of the Year on "The Today Show" with a great deal of fanfare, and it would be a natural as a television franchise. In spite of its lack of actual profits - making money as a giant weekly is a difficult endeavor - Time has significant brand and sentimental value at the company. Its long history, the closure of Newsweek's print edition and the fact that "CNN" and "Time" are two of the leading news brands on the planet may mean that long-run the split is good for the weekly. 
The new entity, meanwhile, will lean hard on People, as close as the magazine industry has had to a money machine, with sales of almost $1 billion last year. But even that juggernaut has slowed: Last year, People's newsstand sales declined 12.2 percent in the second half of 2012 compared with the year before, according to the Alliance for Audited Media.
Once the crown jewel of Manhattan publishing, Time Inc. has been lurching of late, with three publishers in three years, steadily dropping earnings and a digital future that is much ballyhooed but never seems to arrive. The division still makes money, kicking out $460 million in earnings last year, but the trend lines have been down for the last five years as secular changes in the industry - particularly, declining advertising revenue - have clobbered the former earnings standout. 
The other two big Manhattan magazine companies - Hearst and Condé Nast - are privately held and can afford to play for the long haul, hoping that trusted print brands find a new toehold through tablet apps and digital extensions. Not so at Time Inc., where the contrast between print and the rest of the company has grown only more stark.
Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, has always said nice things about the magazine division, but his actions suggest that he is no longer interested in waiting for a turnaround. Mr. Bewkes came up through HBO, a cable division that has managed to keep growing and throwing off profit in spite of changes in the media landscape, and he clearly would rather cheer on Time Inc. from a greater distance.
Mr. Bewkes did much the same thing for many of the same reasons when he engineered a split between the parent company and Time Warner Cable back in 2008. Then, as now, the company was trying to open up a space between the parent and so-called mature businesses. And in each instance, the parent could obtain the benefit of a sale without suffering big capital gains taxes. 
When the cable company was spun off, it paid a dividend to the parent of some $10.9 billion by taking on a great deal of debt; a similar gambit is expected to yield some $1.75 billion if the deal for a new joint venture with Meredith comes to pass. (And nothing, it should be pointed out, ages faster than the future gone amiss. AOL, which once swallowed Time Warner in a reverse merger, was spun back out in 2009.)
The deal to largely exit the magazine business could take weeks or months, and the specifics are far from worked out; in the end, Time Warner could explore other options. But the basic decision to unwind the magazine division has been years in the making. The difficulties have been widespread and dispersed in the industry as a whole - magazines as tiny as Cat Fancy and as giant as Reader's Digest have been taken apart by fundamentally changed economics and consumer habits. 
There were many other signs over the last few years. Gourmet is gone from Condé Nast, a company that had never tightened its Gucci belt in its history. Then Newsweek, a former primary player in American consciousness, sold for a dollar, and recently discontinued its print edition.
Disruption in various economic sectors takes place over years as insurgents rise and former titans crumble, but its effects often become most clear in a signature moment. The specter of Time Inc., which lent its name to one of the largest media companies in the world, being pushed out the door like a party guest who has overstayed his welcome is a stark reminder of how fundamentally the game has changed. 

        
Cable TV Revenue Helps Spur Time Warner Profit
        
Time Warner Considers Spinning Off Some of Its Magazines
        
News Corporation Completes Deal for 49% Stake in YES Network
        
Cable Networks Help Time Warner's Quarterly Profit
        
Ad Campaign Will Encourage People to 'Love People'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); FILM (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); LABOR FORCE (68%); RACQUETBALL (63%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (57%) CNN; Des Moines (IA); Home Box Office; Magazines; Manhattan (NYC); Media; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Midtown Area (Manhattan, NY); News Corporation; People (Magazine); Sports Illustrated; Time Inc; Time Warner Cable Inc; Time Warner Inc; News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ; Time Warner Cable Inc|TWC|NYSE; Time Warner Inc|TWX|NYSE

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); TIME WARNER INC (92%); NEWS CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CNN; Home Box Office; News Corporation; People (Magazine); Sports Illustrated; Time Inc; Time Warner Cable Inc; Time Warner Inc

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ; News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ; Time Warner Cable Inc; TWC; NYSE; News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ; Time Warner Cable Inc; TWC; NYSE; Time Warner Inc; TWX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (95%) Des Moines (IA); Manhattan (NYC); Midtown Area (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



522 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: LIPA Customers Are the Most Dissatisfied in the Country, a Study Says

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: A survey of utility customers, the first since Hurricane Sandy, shows that, as a group, businesses in the Northeast lost a lot of faith in their power providers last year. 

 BODY:
The results of the first survey of utility customers since Hurricane Sandy are in, and they indicate that the New York metropolitan area is a hotbed of dissatisfaction.
Ground zero for the griping was on Long Island, where business customers of the Long Island Power Authority registered the lowest level of satisfaction in the entire country, according to a study released late Wednesday by J.D. Power and Associates, a marketing research firm. 
The power authority's widely panned performance after the storm led a governor's commission to propose dissolving it last month.
Connecticut Light and Power, which serves most of Connecticut and was widely criticized for its response after Hurricane Irene struck in 2011, ranked next-to-last nationally in the satisfaction survey. 
The study is an annual survey of businesses of all sizes, from mom-and-pop restaurants to the headquarters of global corporations. It shows that, as a group, businesses in the Northeast lost a lot of faith in their power providers last year.
The scores for 2012 measured the attitudes of business customers throughout the year, reflecting their residual feelings about how utilities performed in late 2011 as well as their fresh sentiments in the two months after Hurricane Sandy, said Jeff Conklin, senior director of J.D. Power's energy practice.
"Nearly every utility in this segment is showing a decline from last year," Mr. Conklin said.
Indeed, the average score for large utilities in the East on the firm's 1,000-point scale fell to 623 from 639. But some utilities, including Consolidated Edison, fared relatively well.
Con Edison, which provides electricity to almost all of New York City and much of Westchester County, moved up the rankings, despite a significant drop in its customers' satisfaction. While its score on the customer satisfaction index dropped to 639 this year from 654 in 2012, Con Edison rose to second from third among large utilities in the East.
Con Edison's score this year matched that of Jersey Central Power and Light, which serves much of central New Jersey, including most of the Jersey Shore. The New Jersey utility's business customers had been the most satisfied in the region in last year's survey, but lost a lot of confidence. In the new survey, the level of satisfaction with Jersey Central Power and Light fell about 5 percent.
The responses from businesses can differ from the opinions of residential utility customers. J.D. Power's last survey of residential users, released in July, also ranked the Long Island Power Authority and Connecticut Power and Light as the two worst large utilities in the East. But that survey also ranked Con Edison only average for the group and Jersey Central Power and Light well below average.
In five months, each of those utilities will receive another verdict from their residential customers.

        
Con Ed Seeks Rate Increase
        
Small Utilities Credits Are Just the First Step, a Commission Says
        
Deadline to Fight Assessments on Hurricane-Damaged Homes
        
FEMA to the Rescue
        
Salvaged From Flood Waters, a Jazz Legend's Recordings Draw New Listeners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING SURVEYS (92%); HURRICANE SANDY (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); RANKINGS (89%); HURRICANES (78%); CITIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%) Consolidated Edison Inc; Customer Relations; Hurricane Sandy (2012); J.D. Power & Associates; Long Island (NY); Long Island Power Authority; Consolidated Edison Inc|ED|NYSE; Utilities

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT CO (65%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO (57%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Consolidated Edison Inc; Long Island Power Authority

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%) Consolidated Edison Inc; ED; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



523 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: As Troops Leave, an Uncertain Future for U.S. Aid in Afghanistan

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's announcement on Tuesday of his plan to draw down United States troops in Afghanistan over the next year puts new focus on the sustainability of aid programs in Afghanistan as the military presence there diminishes. 

 BODY:
Even weighed down by corruption and waste, it has given most of Afghanistan access to health care for the first time. It has drawn violent reprisals from the Taliban but educated a generation of Afghan girls. Accused of fostering a dependency culture, it has nonetheless provided the foundation for a functioning economy.
By some measures the most ambitious nation-building program undertaken to date by the United States - and no doubt the most scrutinized and second-guessed - the 12-year aid effort to modernize and stabilize Afghanistan is now starting to face questions about how, and how quickly, it should be brought to a close. 
President Obama's announcement on Tuesday that he would bring home more than half the remaining troops in Afghanistan over the next year, with nearly all the rest out by the end of 2014, put new focus on the future of aid programs in Afghanistan as the military presence there diminishes. With foreign aid also facing budget-cutting pressure in Congress and much of Washington out of patience with the Karzai government's record on corruption, defenders of the development effort are warning against too precipitous a cutoff of funding from the United States and its allies.
"Because we have so many of our own constraints economically right now, there's a huge possibility that Congress will say we're not going to provide $2.5 billion a year indefinitely," said Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, the liberal research group. 
The administration and other advocates of aid are trying to maintain support for an international plan to scale back aid gradually, and do so in a way that gives the Afghan government and other institutions plenty of time to adapt. 
"Our record of creating really significant gains in Afghanistan over the last decade is what is going to enable us to continue to convince Congress and the American people that these investments are worth continuing to make," said Alex Thier, who heads the United States Agency for International Development's efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
At stake, advocates of aid and other experts say, is Afghanistan's ability to navigate through the next few critical years, when the Afghan government will have to wean its economy, budget and social programs from the flow of foreign aid even as it takes over responsibility for fighting the Taliban.In a recent speech, John F. Sopko, the inspector general who monitors the cost-effectiveness of the reconstruction effort, said United States officials in Afghanistan are keenly aware that the two transitions are linked to one another.
"I think it's fair to say that the success or failure of our entire investment in Afghanistan is teetering on whether these two interrelated and ambitious goals can be met," he said.
By the broadest measure of accounting for the costs of the effort, the United States has spent $90 billion on aid and reconstruction in Afghanistan since 2002, a figure that includes programs run by the United States military and the costs of providing security for the effort, according to Mr. Sopko's agency, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.
By the narrowest measure - money funneled through the United States Agency for International Development, the arm of the State Department that has taken the lead in the civilian aid program - the total is $15 billion since 2002. Mr. Obama likely to seek an additional $2 billion to $2.5 billion for each of the next several years to meet the commitments for continued assistance made by the United States at an international donors conference last year in Tokyo.
On a practical level, aid programs are already being constrained by the military pullback. With fewer bases scattered around Afghanistan, fewer troops on the ground and fewer helicopters available for shuttling people in and out of towns and villages, the military has less capacity to provide the necessary security for development teams.
More generally, some critics of the administration's approach say, there is no credible plan for improving ethics and accountability in the Afghan government and insufficient assurance that aid programs can continue to function effectively as the international presence in Afghanistan diminishes - especially given all the other calls on taxpayer money and proliferating threats elsewhere.
Maintaining an effective and durable civilian presence in Afghanistan "requires a clear case from the president that the result over the next decade will be worth more than putting resources into Asia, a Middle East in turmoil, a truly international counterterrorism effort or dealing with our domestic financial crisis," said a recent report by Anthony H. Cordesman, a scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "No one in the administration has even begun to make this case, and it desperately needs to be made if we are to stay."
Congress will not take up the issue in earnest until later this year. But proponents of maintaining relatively robust aid appear to be benefiting from an alliance of Democrats and Republicans eager to avoid giving up the fragile stability gained by a dozen years of military presence in Afghanistan and concerned with protecting women and girls in particular from a Taliban resurgence.
"It's not going to be easy, but it is possible to make a strong case for strategic investments so that our soldiers will not have died in vain," said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, who is a member of the appropriations subcommittee that allocates money for foreign aid.
Given the vulnerability of Afghan women and girls, support for continued aid from women senators on both sides of the aisle can be "a bulwark against the natural tendency to retrench," she said.
But as the debate plays out, some advocates of aid say they are concerned that the problems that have surrounded aid efforts in the midst of United States military operations will taint the whole concept of civilian assistance at a time when foreign aid - while a tiny slice of government spending - is again in the sights of budget cutters.
"I've often worried that the lesson from Iraq and Afghanistan - and especially Afghanistan - is that we don't know how to do foreign aid and therefore we shouldn't continue to provide aid at the levels we have been," Ms. Wadhams said.

        
Monday's Debate Puts Focus on Foreign Policy Clashes
        
Afghan Strategy Has Loomed Over Obama Presidency
        
Obama to Speak on Afghanistan Drawdown
        
Bringing Petraeus to C.I.A. Offers Benefits for Obama
        
Foreign Policy Debate Puts Focus on Leadership

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Foreign Aid; State Department; United States Defense and Military Forces; On Washington

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



524 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: David Leonhardt, Washington Bureau Chief, Answers Readers' Questions

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: David Leonhardt, Washington bureau chief for The New York Times, will answer readers' questions about the economic landscape and President Obama's prospects to enact the ambitious legislative agenda he laid out in his State of the Union address. 

 BODY:
David Leonhardt, Washington bureau chief for The New York Times, will answer readers' questions about the economic landscape and President Obama's prospects to enact the ambitious legislative agenda he laid out in his State of the Union address.
Mr. Leonhardt is the author of the e-book "Here's the Deal: How Washington Can Solve the Deficit and Spur Growth," published by The Times and Byliner. Previously, he wrote the paper's Economic Scene column.
Answers to selected readers' questions will appear on NYTimes.com on Thursday afternoon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (86%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (84%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



525 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: After Strong I.P.O., Russia's Main Stock Exchange Begins Trading

BYLINE: ANDREW E. KRAMER


HIGHLIGHT: The exchange priced near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at about $4 billion. 

 BODY:
MOSCOW - Russia's main stock exchange has garnered enough investor interest for an initial public offering, another milestone in the country's capitalist evolution.
The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, for the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, is scheduled to begin trading Friday in Moscow on its own trading platform. 
The stock will price near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at slightly more than $4 billion, a financial industry official briefed on the plan said Thursday evening.
The listing drew interest from specialized investors in financial services companies and institutional investors in the United States and Europe, the official said. Micex has also benefited from the publicity of mergers and acquisitions in the stock exchange business worldwide, including the announced sale of the New York Stock Exchange.
The seesaw fortunes of the Russian companies that list on Micex have made it one of the world's most volatile markets. From its inception in 1992 until the start of the 2008 recession, the Russian stock market had been in either the top five performing markets in the world or the bottom five in every year except one.
The company managing the exchange, though, has made an argument that it is a far safer bet than the companies it lists because it earns fees on both long and short trades and from foreign currency deals, its original niche.
The Russian central bank founded Micex as a market for trading rubles into foreign currency legally, something that had been tightly regulated in the past. That was the best thing that ever happened to early post-Soviet financiers, who knew which way that bet would go and made easy fortunes on Micex.
The exchange evolved to trade stocks when they appeared in Russia in the early 1990s and presided over the panic selling of state bonds in the 1998 default. By 2011, it was the dominant exchange after it merged with a rival, the Russian Trading System. The main product of the Russian Trading System was a dollar-denominated derivative of an index fund for the Russian market, used primarily to short the entire country's economy, a position sometimes used as a hedge by nervous companies making other investments. Last year, this product accounted for 34 percent of all derivatives trades on Micex.
Other revenue streams are interest income from obligatory deposits that brokerage firms place with the exchange to trade, fees charged to issuing companies and data sales.
The central bank will remain the largest shareholder after the issue of 10 to 15 percent of the shares. The organizing banks are expected to announce the size of the float on Friday.
Mattias Westman, founder of Prosperity Capital Management, the largest foreign portfolio investor in Russia, which manages $4.5 billion in stocks and other assets, many of which are traded on Micex, said owning shares in the stock exchange was also a way to bet on the strengthening domestic financial system.
Micex's offering, he said, "is a symptom of the whole market maturing," 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union.
Bruce Bower, portfolio manager at Verno Capital, a Russia-focused fund, said the exchange's mix of offerings for investors wanting either long or short positions, its interest earnings and fees for currency exchange made it a relatively safe stock as "the financial utility for Russia."

        
Moscow Exchange Prices I.P.O.
        
MegaFon Shares Fall After I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INDEX FUNDS (50%) Initial Public Offerings; Russia; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



526 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: After Strong I.P.O., Russia's Main Stock Exchange Begins Trading

BYLINE: ANDREW E. KRAMER


HIGHLIGHT: The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, for the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, is scheduled to begin trading Friday in Moscow on its own trading platform. 

 BODY:
 MOSCOW - Russia's main stock exchange has garnered enough investor interest for an initial public offering, another milestone in the country's capitalist evolution.
The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, for the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, is scheduled to begin trading Friday in Moscow on its own trading platform. 
The stock will price near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at slightly more than $4 billion, a financial industry official briefed on the plan said Thursday evening.
The listing drew interest from specialized investors in financial services companies and institutional investors in the United States and Europe, the official said. Micex has also benefited from the publicity of mergers and acquisitions in the stock exchange business worldwide, including the announced sale of the New York Stock Exchange.
The seesaw fortunes of the Russian companies that list on Micex have made it one of the world's most volatile markets. From its inception in 1992 until the start of the 2008 recession, the Russian stock market had been in either the top five performing markets in the world or the bottom five in every year except one.
The company managing the exchange, though, has made an argument that it is a far safer bet than the companies it lists because it earns fees on both long and short trades and from foreign currency deals, its original niche.
The Russian central bank founded Micex as a market for trading rubles into foreign currency legally, something that had been tightly regulated in the past. That was the best thing that ever happened to early post-Soviet financiers, who knew which way that bet would go and made easy fortunes on Micex.
The exchange evolved to trade stocks when they appeared in Russia in the early 1990s and presided over the panic selling of state bonds in the 1998 default. By 2011, it had become the dominant exchange after merging with a rival, the Russian Trading System. The main product of the Russian Trading System was a dollar-denominated derivative of an index fund for the Russian market, used primarily to short the entire country's economy, a position sometimes used as a hedge by nervous companies making other investments. Last year, this product accounted for 34 percent of all derivatives trades on Micex.
Other revenue streams are interest income from obligatory deposits that brokerage firms place with the exchange to trade, fees charged to issuing companies and data sales.
The central bank will remain the largest shareholder after the issue of 10 to 15 percent of the shares. The organizing banks are expected to announce the size of the float on Friday.
Mattias Westman, founder of Prosperity Capital Management, the largest foreign portfolio investor in Russia, which manages $4.5 billion in stocks and other assets, many of which are traded on Micex, said owning shares in the stock exchange was also a way to bet on the strengthening domestic financial system.
Micex's offering, he said, "is a symptom of the whole market maturing," 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union.
Bruce Bower, portfolio manager at Verno Capital, a Russia-focused fund, said the exchange's mix of offerings for investors wanting either long or short positions, its interest earnings and its fees for currency exchange made it a relatively safe stock as "the financial utility for Russia." 

        
Moscow Exchange Prices I.P.O.
        
Why an I.P.O. Revival May Have to Wait

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MERGERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INDEX FUNDS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Initial Public Offerings; Moscow (Russia); Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Moscow (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



527 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Health Care's Good News

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL


HIGHLIGHT: Shout it from the rooftops: costs are finally stabilizing. 

 BODY:
 THINK about it. When was the last time you heard the phrases "good news" and "health care costs" in the same sentence?
I can't remember either.
Most of the recent talk about health care spending has been pretty bleak. Just take a look at the Rate Review Tool on Healthcare.gov and you'll know why. Major insurers are proposing painful, double-digit premium increases in 2013. In California, Anthem Blue Cross, Blue Shield of California and Aetna all announced rate increases of 20 percent or higher for some of their customers. Many are taking this as a sign that, despite its intentions, the health care reform law is failing and costs are going up as a result.

But there is something bigger going on here, though commentators may not be shouting about it. Health care spending is still going up, but the rate at which it grows year to year has actually been declining for about a decade now. 
This is truly a sea change. Look at Medicare: over the last 43 years, costs per beneficiary grew 2.7 percent faster than the overall economy. That's why Medicare spending rose from $7.7 billion in 1970 (or 0.7 percent of gross domestic product) to $551 billion in 2012 (almost 4 percent of G.D.P.). But this trend has finally reversed; over the last three years, Medicare costs per person have grown 1.3 percent slower than growth in the overall economy. In January, a Department of Health and Human Services report showed that Medicare spending per beneficiary grew just 0.4 percent in 2012. And last week, the Congressional Budget Office lowered its 10-year Medicare spending projection by $137 billion, because "health care spending has grown much more slowly" than "historical rates would have indicated."
This slowdown is not limited to Medicare, nor is it simply the result of belt-tightening in the wake of the Great Recession. Since 2004 - nearly four years before the economic downturn - the rate of health care inflation per person has been just 0.8 percent higher than the growth of the G.D.P. Between 1965 and 1993, for comparison, it was 3.2 percent higher.
So if the growth of spending is decelerating, why are premiums increasing? First, the big increases were in relatively small parts of the market, among individual and small-business policies. Second, like everyone else in the health care industry, insurance companies are uncertain about the future, particularly about what will happen to their margins when the new exchanges open in October. The natural response to uncertainty is caution, and for insurance companies, the cautious approach is to increase revenue and profits as much as possible in the short term in case Obamacare lowers them in the long term.
But once the exchanges begin to facilitate competition, this fear should dissipate and premiums should come down.
Regardless, the good news on health care costs shouldn't make us complacent. Despite the slowdown, total Medicare spending is still rising, because more and more baby boomers are becoming eligible for the program every day. The number of beneficiaries is projected to grow 3 percent each year. As a result, total Medicare expenditures are projected to rise to over 4 percent of the G.D.P. by 2023 and to 6.7 percent by 2037. This is a looming threat to the nation's long-term fiscal stability.
So what more can be done? Here is another piece of good news: there are many common sense reforms that should appeal to both Democrats and Republicans.
One example is competitive bidding. Historically, the government has effectively set prices through Medicare for wheelchairs, hospital beds and other medical equipment. But a demonstration project begun in 2011 introduced competitive bidding in roughly 100 metropolitan areas to see if market forces could bring down prices. The results have been dramatic. Prices for oxygen equipment went down 41 percent; wheelchairs, 36 percent; hospital beds, 44 percent; and the cost of diabetic testing equipment, like glucose strips, dropped by a whopping 72 percent. And research has shown no adverse effects on beneficiaries.
The Affordable Care Act will expand competitive bidding for these items to the rest of the country in 2016. But why wait? We should roll it out nationwide next year. And it shouldn't just be for medical equipment. In his last budget, President George W. Bush recommended expanding competitive bidding for blood tests and other lab procedures. It could also work for X-rays, CT scans, pacemakers - for all medical commodities. This would drive health care spending growth closer to the increase in G.D.P.
The moderating of health care spending is fantastic news. But now we just have to work harder. If we can push the rate of growth even lower, we will come close to solving our nation's long-term financial problems.

        
For Medicare, We Must Cut Costs, Not Shift Them
        
We Can Be Healthy and Rich
        
When Paying It Forward Pays Us Back
        
Let Them Eat Crow
        
What We Give Up for Health Care

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Reform and Reorganization; Ezekiel J. Emanuel

COMPANY: BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (83%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



528 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report Criticizes Battery Company's Grant Management

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The plant in Holland, Mich., has yet to "manufacture battery cells that could be used in electric vehicles sold to the public," a memo with the report says. 

 BODY:
A new federal report released Wednesday painted a devastating portrait of how a battery supplier, LG Chem Michigan, handled a 2010 grant of more than $150 million in Recovery Act financing to build a battery cell plant. The report describes an idled company with workers using company time to volunteer for organizations like Habitat for Humanity, animal shelters and nature centers, to watch movies and to play board and video games. The company says that slower-than-expected electric vehicle sales are to blame.
The special report from the Energy Department's Office of Inspector General grew out of a complaint last fall that the company was misusing its federal money. "We confirmed the allegations," said a memo from Gregory H. Friedman, the inspector general, that accompanied the report. "We found that work performed under the grant to LG Chem Michigan had not been managed effectively." 
"The allegation that the department reimbursed LG Chem Michigan for labor costs that did not support the goals and objectives of the grant was substantiated," he said.
The plant in Holland, Mich., has yet to "manufacture battery cells that could be used in electric vehicles sold to the public," the memo said.
LG Chem Michigan has reimbursed the Energy Department for $842,000 in labor costs that the federal investigation found to be "unreasonable and unallowable," the memo said. Some employees interviewed, the report said, admitted to volunteering for noncompany work from one to five days a week. "We leave it to each reader of the report to make their own judgment as to the significance of a $842,000 reimbursement," the memo said. 
LG Chem Michigan said in a statement that it had put reforms in place that would ensure that federal money would not be misused going forward. "LG Chem Michigan is acutely aware of the disappointment arising from the delays in our start of production," the company said. "These market-driven delays have been very difficult for our team members, for our community and for our company." The company said it was developing "specific plans" for starting production in Holland.
The Washington Post quoted LG Chem's spokesman, Randy Boileau, as saying that LG Chem "has a significant interest in the long-term success of this facility."
The company "is doing everything it can to find an economically viable way to get commercial production started here," he said.
LG Chem has spent $142 million of its stimulus money, the report said. The company was to have begun by late this year producing enough battery cells annually to power 60,000 electric cars, the memo said, with assembly to have begun last year. Some 440 jobs were to be created. Among the report's findings:
 Only about 60 percent of the production capacity laid out by LG Chem has been built, despite expenditure of 94 percent of the Energy Department's share of the project financing.
 Production of cells did not move from South Korea to Michigan in 2012, as outlined in grant documentation. According to the report, LG Chem Michigan said this was because sufficient demand had not materialized for the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, which uses the company's cells. The report admits that the slow pace of electric vehicle sales in the United States was "a significant factor" affecting the American plant. But it adds that demand for the Volt averaged 1,955 vehicles a month in 2012 and "that volume could have readily been produced by using the then built-out capacity of the Michigan plant."
 Less than half the expected number of jobs have been created.
LG Chem Michigan also received a state grant and local tax breaks. This new report concludes that until the company begins production in Michigan or develops some alternative use for the plant, "U.S. taxpayers will receive little direct benefit from a plant for which they provided at least half of the funding."

        
G.M. to Halt Production of Chevy Volt for Five Weeks
        
Tata Technologies Readies a Conceptual E.V. for Detroit Auto Show
        
Edison2, X Prize Winner, Claims 350 M.P.G. Equivalent for Prototype
        
That Tesla Data: What It Says and What It Doesn't
        
Bloomberg Endorses Preparing Parking Spaces for E.V. Charging

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (72%); BOARD GAMES (71%); HYBRID VEHICLES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%) electric vehicle batteries; LG Chem Michigan; Friedman, Gregory H; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Inspectors General; Michigan; Electric Vehicles

COMPANY: LG CHEM LTD (90%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (58%)

TICKER: LGCD (LSE) (90%); 051910 (KSE) (90%); WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS321918 OTHER MILLWORK (INCLUDING FLOORING) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: Friedman, Gregory H

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



529 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Group Targets Spewing Buildings in Pollution Report

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: The Urban Green Council is calling largely for greater efficiency and common-sense moves to reduce carbon emissions in New York City, where homes and offices release more carbon than motor vehicles. 

 BODY:
When people consider the prime sources of carbon gas emissions in New York City, cars, trucks and buses belching smoke are often the first culprits to come to mind.
In fact, homes and offices spew far more carbon into the atmosphere than all motor vehicles in the city combined. Some 75 percent of all carbon emissions in the city come from the buildings.
Using that sometimes surprising fact as a starting point, the nonprofit Urban Green Council has outlined a series of measures that it says could result in the city's reducing carbon emissions by 90 percent by 2050 - a far more ambitious figure than the city's current goal [pdf] of 30 percent by 2030. 
Perhaps most striking about the report, "90 by 50" [pdf], released on Thursday, is that it does not assume any fancy new technology or major change in how people live. 
Instead, it relies on a strategy that many people have been reminded of by a grandparent at one point or another: keep the heat in during the winter and out during the summer.
In an article in Slate - and a nod to the "broken windows" crime-fighting approach made famous during the Giuliani administration - the proposal was called "the triple-pane windows theory."
The council's report calls for buildings to be viewed not as objects trapped in the amber of outdated heating and cooling technology, but more as infrastructure similar to roads and sewers.
The report outlines several steps to make buildings more efficient and outlines different approaches for eight different building types most common in the city - from low-slung brownstones to towering skyscrapers.
First, it envisions ridding the city of its increasingly aging system of heating many buildings with steam-generated power and ending all dependence on coal. Instead, buildings would be connected to the grid with high-efficiency electrical pumps.
Beyond the major infrastructure changes, the report says that a series of seemingly small changes could have a striking impact. It calls for better insulation, heat recovery ventilation and plugging of air leaks, among other actions. It also proposes using triple-glazed windows.
The report estimates that such an effort would require a capital outlay of $94 billion over 35 years. But it also estimates that the savings from increased energy efficiency would be $87 billion over that time.
Of course, the impact would go far beyond the financial. The ultimate goal is to combat climate change, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has recommitted himself to battling in the wake of Hurricane Sandy.
"Our climate is changing," Mr. Bloomberg wrote days after the storm. "And while the increase in extreme weather we have experienced in New York City and around the world may or may not be the result of it, the risk that it might be - given this week's devastation - should compel all elected leaders to take immediate action."
The city is already a global leader in reducing greenhouse gases, the report notes.
"But it is not enough," the report states. "To ensure a global environment in which human society can bring security and prosperity to all its members, climate science tells us we must reduce carbon pollution dramatically. A figure of 80 percent globally by 2050 is often cited. A reduction of 90 percent in the readily measured fraction of the city's emissions will be necessary to meet this goal, and this study outlines an energy economy for New York City in 2050 that will match this challenge."

        
Cruise Ships in Brooklyn to Plug In on Shore
        
Supreme Court Halts Mayor's Push for Hybrid Taxis
        
Speech Aside, the State of the City Was Poppin'
        
Video: Mayor Bloomberg's Final State of the City Address
        
A Valentine Sandwich Board

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); WEATHER (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (62%) Air Pollution; Bloomberg, Michael R; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; New York City; Environment; Government & Politics

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



530 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Berkshire and 3G Capital in a $23 Billion Deal for Heinz

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Berkshire Hathaway, the giant conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, said on Thursday that it would buy the H. J. Heinz Company for about $23 billion. Berkshire is teaming up with 3G Capital, a Brazilian investment firm that already owns most of Burger King. 

 BODY:
 8:56 p.m. | Updated 
Just days ago, the fate of a 144-year-old American icon was being hashed out in a Pittsburgh conference room as executives spoke by phone to representatives of two global billionaires who went by the code names "Owl" and "Goose."
Owl was Warren E. Buffett, chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway and one of the most admired investors in the world. Goose was Jorge Paulo Lemann, who became one of Brazil's wealthiest financiers with 3G Capital. What emerged from the talks was a $23 billion takeover of H. J. Heinz, the maker of Heinz ketchup.
The announcement of the deal on Thursday and the involvement of the closely followed Mr. Buffett served as confirmation that deal-making spirits have revived in corporate America. 
Yet the deal also signals the rising power of investors from once-emerging markets like Brazil. Armed with strong balance sheets and a growing domestic economy, Brazilian entities have emerged as prominent buyers of American companies like Pilgrim's Pride, the chicken producer. 3G itself bought control of Burger King two years ago, leading an effort to revive the fortunes of the fast-food chain.
In some ways, Heinz fits Mr. Buffett's playbook almost to a T. Its global brand recognition approaches that of Coca-Cola and I.B.M., two companies in which he owns big stakes, and its financial performance is sound. Over the last 12 months, its stock has risen nearly 17 percent.
Born from Henry J. Heinz's horseradish business, Heinz has become one of the best-recognized food companies in the world, with its bottles of deep-red ketchup sitting on millions of kitchen tables. But it has expanded its offerings to include Ore-Ida French fries and Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce.
For the year ended Oct. 28, the company reported $11.6 billion in revenue and $1 billion in profit. It generates the largest portion of its sales in Europe, but its Asian markets are growing quickly. And it has improved its net sales for eight consecutive fiscal years.
"It is our kind of company," Mr. Buffett told CNBC on Thursday. It fits comfortably alongside companies that Berkshire already owns, including the Dairy Queen chain. But Berkshire and 3G are paying a healthy price for Heinz. Under the terms of the deal, they will pay $72.50 a share, 20 percent higher than the stock's closing price on Wednesday and 19 percent higher than its record high. Including debt, the transaction is worth $28 billion.
The deal deviates from Mr. Buffett's playbook in several ways. For example, the day-to-day operations of Heinz will be in the hands of 3G.
"Heinz will be 3G's baby," Mr. Buffett said on CNBC.
Also, Berkshire is splitting ownership of Heinz 50-50 with 3G, with each company putting in about $4 billion in cash. Mr. Buffett will pay an additional $8 billion to receive preferred shares, which will pay him a hefty annual dividend of about 9 percent.
The rest of the deal will be financed with debt arranged by banks.
In some respects, the transaction more closely resembles a leveraged buyout, a type of deal that Mr. Buffett has criticized in the past.
But he and Mr. Lemann insist that they intend to hold Heinz for the long term, whereas in a private equity deal, the buyers inevitably seek to profit by selling their acquisition. Mr. Buffett said that he regarded the food company as a trophy asset like Fruit of the Loom or the Burlington Northern Railroad, and would love to buy more control over time.
"We may increase our ownership if any members of the 3G Group ultimately want to sell out later," he said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Buffett, 82, says he has studied Heinz as a potential takeover target for years, keeping a file on the company as far back as 1980. For years he heard tales of the ketchup maker from one of its former chief executives, Anthony O'Reilly, at the house of the former Washington Post publisher Katharine Graham.
Still, he didn't breathe a word of his interest to outsiders, and never visited Heinz at its longtime corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh.
He did not make the first move. The roots of Thursday's deal lie with 3G, whose principal backer is Mr. Lemann, a former Brazilian tennis champion who has since become one of that country's wealthiest men through years of shrewd deal-making.
The two men have been friends for decades, having served on the board of Gillette, and both are big investors in the brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev. At a corporate retreat for the brewer's executives in early December, Mr. Lemann approached Mr. Buffett with the idea of taking Heinz private, and quickly got his support.
Mr. Lemann took Heinz's longtime chief executive, William R. Johnson, out to lunch at the Port Royal Club in Naples, Fla., later that month. At the time, Mr. Johnson thought the meeting was about forming a deeper partnership with Burger King, and no deal was discussed.
It wasn't until last month that Mr. Lemann formally approached Mr. Johnson with a proposal to buy Heinz, and work began in earnest two weeks ago.
To keep matters confidential, 3G and its advisers refrained from flying to Pittsburgh, instead holding negotiations through phone calls and video chats.
Maintaining Heinz's ties to Pittsburgh was important to Mr. Johnson, and the buyers assured him that the company would remain headquartered there.
As part of the code for the deal talks, Heinz executives referred to their company as "Penguin," a nod to the hockey team in Pittsburgh. But advisers to Mr. Buffett and Mr. Lemann, having a hard time remembering the nickname, stuck with the bird theme and called the company "Hawk" instead.
The negotiations moved quickly, with Mr. Buffett poring through Heinz's financial statements himself. He and Mr. Lemann initially offered to pay about $70 a share last month, according to people with direct knowledge of the process. After some back and forth with Mr. Johnson and his advisers, the suitors eventually raised their offer to $72.50.
As the final terms of the deal began to fall into place this week, Mr. Buffett invited Mr. Johnson and 3G's chief executive, Alexandre Behring, to lunch for the first time. Over burgers at the Hilton in his hometown, Omaha, Mr. Buffett noted that Heinz was started in 1869, the same year that his great-grandfather Sidney founded a grocery store.
Unable to resist tweaking his guest, Mr. Buffett recalled that while Heinz ran into financial trouble briefly in the late 1800s, his family's business had fared better. "So for a little bit of time, we were ahead," he recalled in an interview on Thursday.
The talks concluded in the wee hours of Thursday morning. Exhausted, 3G executives and their advisers celebrated the imminent closing of their deal in suitable fashion: over Whoppers and fries from Burger King, surrounded by piles of Heinz ketchup packets.
An article on Friday about the proposed acquisition of H. J. Heinz by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital erroneously included one company among those currently owned by Berkshire. Hanesbrands is an independent company.
An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Heinz's sales in Europe. The region accounts for the largest portion of the company's sales; it does not account for a majority of its sales. 

        
Weighing Down Heinz With Debt
        
In Heinz Takeover, a New Path for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); BRAND EQUITY (65%) 3G Capital Management LLC; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Buffett, Warren E; HJ Heinz Company; Lemann, Jorge Paulo; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (92%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (55%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: 3G Capital Management LLC; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; HJ Heinz Company

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); PPC (NASDAQ) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (55%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (55%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (55%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013



531 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Beer Duopoly Averted

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: Anheuser-Busch InBev, the country and world's largest beer company, announced concessions in its bid to take full control of Groupo Modelo. 

 BODY:
The threat of an unassailable American beer duopoly has receded. In response to a Department of Justice lawsuit, Anheuser-Busch InBev, the country and world's largest beer company, announced significant concessions on Thursday in its bid to take full control of Groupo Modelo, a Mexican brewing company. The changes should go a long way toward addressing the competition concerns of American regulators, though they will do little to address the growing concentration of the beer industry globally. 
As we argued last week, the InBev-Modelo deal would have seriously hurt competition by putting two companies - the other being MillerCoors - in control of more than 70 percent of the American beer market. That would make the industry one of the most concentrated in the country.

After the antitrust division sued to block the deal, InBev amended terms of its takeover in a way that would split off Modelo's U.S. business from the rest of the company. It offered to sell the American rights to Modelo's brands (such as Corona and Modelo Especial) to Constellation Brands, which already owns 50 percent of the firm that distributes Modelo beers in the United States. Constellation would also acquire a brewery in Mexico near San Antonio that currently supplies 60 percent of the Modelo beer sold in the U.S.
A spokeswoman for the antitrust division told Reuters that she could not comment on the revised offer. Regulators will likely want to be assured that the deal does not include any side agreements that would allow InBev to later re-acquire the American business or influence how Constellation markets or prices Modelo beers.
The concessions suggest that InBev's management has decided that giving up the American Modelo business is a relatively small price to pay to conclude its acquisition of the rest of the company quickly. After all, Modelo's biggest allure to InBev is that it provides an entre into the Mexican market, which makes the American analog look like a model of competition.
Two companies, Modelo and FEMSA, a division of the Dutch giant Heineken, sell nearly all the beer south of the border. It is so difficult for others to break into that market that SABMiller, which owns the Miller beer brands along with many others, has filed officials complaints with Mexico's Federal Competition Commission arguing that it has been hurt by unfair trade practices.
Bloomberg reported last year that Modelo controls about 60 percent of the beer market in Mexico, with FEMSA controlling most of the rest. It's easy to see why InBev, which already owns a 50 percent stake in Modelo, would prefer to expand a large and dominant business in Mexico than to add another few beer brands to its already extensive lineup in the U.S.. America is, of course, the world's largest economy but it is growing much more slowly than Mexico and other countries in Latin America and elsewhere where Corona is an increasingly popular beer. In fact, Carlos Brito, the chief executive of InBev, said in the company's statement that the "transaction has always been about Mexico and making Corona more global in all markets other than the U.S."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BREWERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ACQUISITIONS (73%) Anheuser-Busch InBev NV; Beer; Constellation Brands Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Anheuser-Busch InBev NV|BUD|NYSE; Constellation Brands Inc|STZ|NYSE

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (94%); GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (92%); ACTRIS AG (90%); FOMENTO ECONOMICO MEXICANO SAB DE CV (58%); SABMILLER PLC (58%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (83%) Anheuser-Busch InBev NV; Constellation Brands Inc

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (94%); ABI (BRU) (94%); GMODELO (BMV) (92%); FMX (NYSE) (58%); FEMSA (BMV) (58%); SOSAB (JSE) (58%); SAB (LSE) (58%); STZ (NYSE) (55%) Anheuser-Busch InBev NV; BUD; NYSE; Anheuser-Busch InBev NV; BUD; NYSE; Constellation Brands Inc; STZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (55%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (55%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (55%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



532 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Confidence on Upswing, Mergers Make Comeback

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Bankers and lawyers warn that it is still too early to declare a mergers-and-acquisitions boom like those during the junk bond craze of 1989, the dot-com bubble of 1999 and the leveraged buyout bonanza of 2007. 

 BODY:
The mega-merger is back.
For the corporate takeover business, the last half-decade was a fallow period. Wall Street deal makers and chief executives, brought low by the global financial crisis, lacked the confidence to strike the audacious multibillion-dollar acquisitions that had defined previous market booms.
Cycles, however, turn, and in the opening weeks of 2013, merger activity has suddenly roared back to life. On Thursday, Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, said it had teamed up with Brazilian investors to buy the ketchup maker H. J. Heinz for about $23 billion. And American Airlines and US Airwaysagreed to merge in a deal valued at $11 billion.
Those transactions come a week after a planned $24 billion buyout of the computer company Dell by its founder, Michael S. Dell, and private equity backers. And Liberty Global, the company controlled by the billionaire media magnate John C. Malone, struck a $16 billion deal to buy the British cable business Virgin Media. 
"Since the crisis, one by one, the stars came into alignment, and it was only a matter of time before you had a week like we just had," said James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase.
Still, bankers and lawyers remain circumspect, warning that it is still too early to declare a mergers-and-acquisitions boom like those during the junk bond craze of 1989, the dot-com bubble of 1999 and the leveraged buyout bonanza of 2007. They also say that it is important to pay heed to the excesses that developed during these moments of merger mania, which all ended badly.
A confluence of factors has driven the recent deals. Most visibly, the stock market has been on a tear, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index this week briefly hitting its highest levels since November 2007. Higher share prices have buoyed the confidence of chief executives, who now, instead of retrenching, are looking for ways to expand their businesses.
A number of clouds that hovered over the markets last year have also been removed, eliminating the uncertainty that hampered deal making. Mergers and acquisitions activity in 2012 remained tepid as companies took a wait-and-see approach over the outcome of the presidential election and negotiations over the fiscal cliff. The problems in Europe, which began in earnest in 2011, shut down a lot of potential transactions, but the region has since stabilized.
"When we talk to our corporate clients as well as the bankers, we keep hearing them talk about increased confidence," said John A. Bick, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, who advised Heinz on its acquisition by Mr. Buffett and his partners.
Mr. Bick said that mega-mergers had a psychological component, meaning that once transactions start happening, chief executives do not want to be left behind. "In the same way that success breeds success, deals breed more deals," he said.
A central reason for the return of big transactions is the mountain of cash on corporate balance sheets. After the financial crisis, companies hunkered down, laying off employees and cutting costs. As a result, they generated savings. Today, corporations in the S.& P. 500 are sitting on more than $1 trillion in cash. With interest rates near zero, that money is earning very little in bank accounts, so executives are looking to put it to work by acquiring businesses.
The private equity deal-making machine is also revving up again. The world's largest buyout firms have hundreds of billions of dollars of "dry powder" - money allotted to deals in Wall Street parlance - and they are on the hunt. The proposed leveraged buyout of Dell, led by Mr. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake Partners, was the largest private equity transaction since July 2007, when the Blackstone Group acquired the hotel chain Hilton Worldwide for $26 billion just as the credit markets were seizing up.
But perhaps the single biggest factor driving the return of corporate takeovers is the banking system's renewed health. Corporations often rely on bank loans for financing acquisitions, and the ability of private equity firms to strike multibillion-dollar transactions depends on the willingness of banks to lend them money.
For years, banks, saddled by the toxic mortgage assets weighing on their balance sheets, turned off the lending spigot. But with the housing crisis in the rearview mirror and economic conditions slowly improving, banks are again lining up to provide corporate loans at record-low interest rates to finance acquisitions.
The banks, of course, are major beneficiaries of megadeals, earning big fees from both advising on the transactions and lending money to finance them. Mergers and acquisitions in the United States total $158.7 billion so far this year, according to Thomson Reuters data, more than double the amount in the same period last year. JPMorgan, for example, has benefited from the surge, advising on four big deals in recent weeks, including the Dell bid and Comcast's $16.7 billion offer for the rest of NBCUniversal that it did not already own.
Mr. Buffett, in a television interview last month, declared that the banks had repaired their businesses and no longer posed a threat to the economy. "The capital ratios are huge, the excesses on the asset aside have been largely cleared out," said Mr. Buffett, whose acquisition of Heinz will be his second-largest acquisition, behind his $35.9 billion purchase of a majority stake in the railroad company Burlington Northern Santa Fe in 2009.
While Wall Street has an air of giddiness over the year's start, most deal makers temper their comments about the current environment with warnings about undisciplined behavior like overpaying for deals and borrowing too much to pay for them.
Though private equity firms were battered by the financial crisis, they made it through the downturn on relatively solid ground. Many of their megadeals, like Hilton, looked destined for bankruptcy after the markets collapsed, but they have since recovered. The deals have benefited from an improving economy, as well as robust lending markets that allowed companies to push back the large amounts of debt that were to have come due in the next few years.
But there are still plenty of cautionary tales about the consequences of overpriced, overleveraged takeovers. Consider Energy Future Holdings, the biggest private equity deal in history. Struck at the peak of the merger boom in October 2007, the company has suffered from low natural gas prices and too much debt, and could be forced to restructure this year. Its owners, a group led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG, are likely to lose billions.
Even Mr. Buffett made a mistake on Energy Future Holdings, having invested $2 billion in the company's bonds. He admitted to shareholders last year that the investment was a blunder and would most likely be wiped out.
"In tennis parlance," Mr. Buffett wrote, "this was a major unforced error."
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

        
A Deal-Making Craze? Yes, With Caveats
        
In Heinz Takeover, a New Path for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (91%); MERGERS (91%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (86%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LAWYERS (70%) 3G Capital Management LLC; American Airlines; BNSF Railway; Buffett, Warren E; Comcast Corporation; Davis Polk & Wardwell; Dell Inc; Dell, Michael S; Energy Future Holdings Corp; Hilton Worldwide; HJ Heinz Company; Johnson, William; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; NBC Universal; Silver Lake Partners; TPG Capital; US Airways Group Inc; Virgin Media Inc; Comcast Corporation|CMCSA|NASDAQ; Dell Inc|DELL|NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company|HNZ|NYSE; US Airways Group Inc|LCC|NYSE; Virgin Media Inc|VMED|NASDAQ; Aerospace & Defense; Financial Services; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (83%); H J HEINZ CO (71%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); LIBERTY GLOBAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: 3G Capital Management LLC; American Airlines; BNSF Railway; Comcast Corporation; Davis Polk & Wardwell; Dell Inc; Energy Future Holdings Corp; Hilton Worldwide; HJ Heinz Company; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; NBC Universal; Silver Lake Partners; TPG Capital; US Airways Group Inc; Virgin Media Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); HNZ (NYSE) (71%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (56%) Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE; US Airways Group Inc; LCC; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE; US Airways Group Inc; LCC; NYSE; Virgin Media Inc; VMED; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (71%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (71%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (71%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (71%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%); MICHAEL DELL (88%); WILLIAM R JOHNSON (69%); JOHN MALONE (57%) Buffett, Warren E; Dell, Michael S; Johnson, William

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



533 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh's Time of Transition

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: Pittsburgh has changed from an industrial city with many manufacturing jobs to a municipality with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center as its largest employer. 

 BODY:
The sprawling H. J. Heinz headquarters in Pittsburgh was turned into apartment lofts for the city's growing creative class long ago. The famous five-story neon ketchup bottle that stood outside the headquarters has been moved to the wall of the city's history museum.
The corporate remnant of Heinz that is still left in Pittsburgh is passing into the faraway hands of its new acquirers, Warren E. Buffett's Nebraska conglomerate and a Brazilian investment firm. The new owners promised to maintain the offices in Pittsburgh, but Heinz has been in the process of leaving the city for a long time. 
It is a story that the city knows well by now, as it has transitioned from one of the great hubs of corporate and industrial America to a new economy based on small technology and medical companies with unfamiliar names. It is only somewhat of a coincidence that on the same day as Heinz's announcement, US Airways, which grew out of the old Pittsburgh carrier Allegheny Airlines, said it was merging with American Airlines, a Texas-based company.
Heinz is the latest in a long list of prominent American companies that have significantly reduced, or all together eliminated, their presence in the Pittsburgh area, including erstwhile giants like U.S. Steel and Gulf Oil, which were among the nation's 10 largest in 1955, according to David Hounshell, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Now there are none among America's 100 largest companies.
But in the course of reducing it reliance on industry and big corporations, Pittsburgh has become one of the more envied stories of urban revival in the Rust Belt. The proportion of Pittsburgh's work force in manufacturing is now actually lower than the national average, according to Christopher Briem, a University of Pittsburgh professor. But so is its unemployment rate, at 7.2 percent.
Like other historic names of the city - like Carnegie, Mellon and Frick - the Heinz brand still courses through the civic blood of Pittsburgh's heart. Its name is on the local concert hall and the Steelers football stadium. The city still identifies with its past image as a pug-nosed, beer-swilling metropolis, even as it markets itself as a hub for technology, medicine and finance.
"We have a really diversified economy now, and yet still maintain our industrial heritage," said Yarone Zober, the chief of staff to Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. "Whether they make another bottle of ketchup here - they are still Pittsburgh."
Henry J. Heinz was firmly in the mold of the other entrepreneurs who built Pittsburgh's manufacturing core. He turned peddling horseradish from his mother's garden into a factory complex on the Allegheny River. He was one of many magnates to see the transportation advantages of Pittsburgh's three rivers.
Andrew Carnegie used the rivers and the local coal deposits to build the colossus of the Pittsburgh economy, the company that would become known as U.S. Steel. The soot churned out by steel manufacturing turned Pittsburgh into the butt of many jokes, but the industry also served as the spine of the city's corporate economy.
The Pittsburgh machine was stumbling in the 1970s as factories came under pressure from lower-wage workers around the world. The city began to empty out and local corporations looked elsewhere. Heinz moved its ketchup manufacturing operation to Ohio and scattered the rest of its United States production. For a while it looked like the city was doomed.
But over the last two decades it has undergone a recovery that many other struggling cities in Middle America look to emulate. It has been led by the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon, which have built research facilities where the old mills once were. The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is now the largest employer in the region and has its acronym atop the old U.S. Steel skyscraper.
The tight-knit neighborhoods and cultural institutions paid for by the old magnates have also helped it attract outside firms. Google decided in 2009 to move a big work force into an old Nabisco plant in the city.
Heinz has its corporate staff of 1,200 based mostly in the skyscraper built by another local icon, Pittsburgh Plate Glass. But perhaps the biggest Heinz influence now comes from the foundations and endowments that were set up by the heirs to the Heinz fortunes.
"The headquarters are here, and those are real jobs," said Mr. Briem. "But in terms of the mythos of Pittsburgh as a manufacturing city, Heinz is no longer here."

        
Confidence on Upswing, Mergers Make Comeback
        
S.E.C. Looks at Trades a Day Before Heinz Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); RIVERS (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); HISTORY (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (75%); MAYORS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%) HJ Heinz Company; Pittsburgh (Pa); HJ Heinz Company|HNZ|NYSE; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (69%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%) HJ Heinz Company

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (69%) HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



534 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Downton and Downward

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: While upward mobility in class-conscious Britain, and most of Western Europe, is rising, the American dream of opportunity is vanishing. 

 BODY:
Like everyone else with a perverse curiosity about a castle-bound community fussing over whether to use a bouillon or a melon spoon, I've been consumed by the turns in "Downton Abbey," the latest export from England to keep American public television afloat.
In a season of haute-soap plot twists, the story of the working-class Irishman, Tom Branson, whose marriage to Lady Sybil gives him a life leap in upward mobility, is worth examining for what it says about class, then and now. Branson is still "the chauffeur" to a family living on moldered wealth, and his brother the car mechanic is "a drunken gorilla" for asking if there's any beer in the House of Lord Grantham. 
But if someone with grease on his hands and an accent from a workaday neighborhood can rise to an estate management position in the rigid British class system, what, by comparison, are we to make of the American experience nearly a century removed?
Oh, but we are a nation free of class conflict, we tell ourselves daily, and live with the illusion that everyone with a job is somehow middle class. Our core, motivational narrative is that anyone with gumption and good luck can rise to a comfortable tier. They don't call that the British Dream.

And yet, a raft of recent studies has found the United States to be a less upwardly mobile society than many comparable nations, particularly for men. One survey reported that 42 percent of American boys raised in the bottom fifth of income stayed there as adults. For Britain, the numbers were better by 30 percent. Just 8 percent of American men made the jump from the lowest fifth to the highest fifth, compared to 12 percent for the Brits.
The fictional Branson, of course, marries upward in a country that George Orwell called "the most class-ridden society under the sun." Their world, in which a tuxedoed toiler's main job in life is to dress a grown man and wipe the dandruff from his collar, is part of the archaic draw of "Downton Abbey."
But shocking though it is for a chauffeur to marry into a post-Edwardian estate, can you imagine an American cab driver tying the knot with a Hilton, a Rockefeller or a hedge fund manager's daughter? On "Downton," upstairs and downstairs are in close, albeit strictly defined, contact. Rich and poor seldom encounter each other in the United States.
It's painful to read that Britain, much of Western Europe, and Canada are becoming more socially and economically fluid while the United States hardens its class arteries. Even in our bleakest time, the Great Depression, the presidential aide Harold Ickes said, "Life for us would not be worth living if we did not have this urge to reach for what will always seem beyond our reach."
The urge remains. The character is unchanged. What's different now are the opportunities, and the hard fact that too many of those born at the bottom of the economic ladder are likely to stay there.
Class stagnation was the underlying theme of President Obama's State of the Union speech on Tuesday. He called on us to "restore the basic bargain," and outlined a few things - universal preschool, more help for college students - that are proven elevators to a better station in life.
The Republican response, from Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, was illustrative of Obama's point - though unintentionally. This son of a bartender said, "More government isn't going to help you get ahead. It's going to hold you back." The Rubio story proves otherwise. He said he couldn't have gone to college without financial aid. He made his money by leveraging a government job in politics. His Cuban-born parents can live in elderly dignity, as he noted, because of that great government product, Medicare.
As a footnote, Rubio noted that he still lives in "the same working class neighborhood I grew up in." Not for long. The four-bedroom home with a pool is on the market for $675,000. Good for him. But please, don't make the preposterous claim that government "limited" his jump in class.
Short of winning the lottery, education is the best route to a change in class status. Yet, because of the obsolete, factory-like nature of high school, which fails to propel at least a third of its students, and the confiscatory cost of college, the next rung up for 18-year-olds is becoming another haven for the rich.
"Education, a force meant to erode class barriers, appears to be fortifying them," my colleague Jason De Parle wrote in one of many terrific pieces on the decline of the American Dream. The affluent, by a whopping 45 point gap, are more likely to finish college than those without means. While family income has been flat or has fallen, the cost of attending a public university has risen 60 percent in the past two decades.
Obama mentioned a vague plan for more flexible college grants, and a "scorecard" so parents can get more bang for their buck - a small start. The ambitious call to make preschool available to "every child in America," shows more promise.
Republicans have expressed little interest in fixing the class divide, and are likely to block every Obama initiative, just because they can. Despite Rubio's protestations, his party is the defender of a status quo that has made the United States a case study in income inequality.
They would do well to remember the words of Andrew Carnegie, the capitalist who gave away his vast fortune. Carnegie was born in a single-room weaver's cottage in Scotland, and saw the British class system at its worst before he moved to America. "There is no class so pitiably wretched," he concluded late in life, "as that which possesses money and nothing else."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



535 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: The Brazilians Behind the Heinz Deal

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett's partner in the Heinz deal, the Brazilian-backed investment firm 3G Capital, has, like Mr. Buffett, shown a hankering for iconic American businesses. 

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett's $23 billion acquisition of H. J. Heinz, a quintessentially American company, is almost a caricature of a Buffett acquisition.
But Mr. Buffett's partner in the deal, the Brazilian-backed investment firm 3G Capital Management, has also shown a craving for iconic American businesses. 
3G, whose principal owner is the billionaire financier Jorge Paulo Lemann, adds ketchup to a portfolio that has included burgers and beer. Mr. Lemann played a major role in the multibillion-dollar merger of the Brazilian-Belgian beer giant InBev with Anheuser-Busch. 
And in 2010, 3G took Burger King Holdings private in a leveraged buyout valued at about $3.3 billion. In April, just 18 months after taking it private, 3G sold shares of Burger King back to the public, but still retains majority ownership of the company. The firm has also previously invested in Wendy's.
The ascendance of 3G and Mr. Lemann as major players on the global mergers-and-acquisition stage reflects the rise of Brazil as an economic power. Armed with strong balance sheets and a growing domestic economy, Brazilian companies have emerged as prominent buyers of American companies. In 2009, for instance, the Brazilian beef company JBS paid $800 million for a majority stake in Pilgrim's Pride, the Texas chicken company.
Mr. Lemann, 73, who is worth $19.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, is said to have come up with the idea to buy Heinz and brought it to his friend Mr. Buffett. The two men have known each other for decades, having served together on the board of Gillette. Berkshire Hathaway is also a large shareholder of Anheuser-Busch InBev. Mr. Lemann and his partners serve on the Anheuser-Busch InBev board.
Mr. Lemann, whose Swiss father emigrated to Brazil a century ago, is a former Brazilian tennis champion who played at Wimbledon. He has lived in Switzerland since 1999, after an attempted kidnapping of his children.
He has been a major player in Brazil since the 1970s, when he acquired a small financial firm and built it into Banco de Investimentos Garantia, one of Brazil's largest investment banks. Credit Suisse acquired his company for about $675 million in 1998. He and his business partners also gained control of a Brazilian brewery and built it into AmBev, one of the world's largest beer companies.
The point person on the transaction for 3G, which houses its investment operations in New York, is Alexandre Behring. Known as Alex, Mr. Behring is a Brazilian native who graduated from Harvard Business School in 1995 and lives in Greenwich, Conn. 
Another tidbit about 3G: for several years, it employed Marc Mezvinsky, the husband of Chelsea Clinton. Mr. Mezvinsky left 3G in 2011 and has since set up is own hedge fund.

        
Weighing Down Heinz With Debt
        
In Heinz Takeover, a New Path for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); TENNIS (88%); SPORTS (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); BREWERIES (76%); MEATS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (67%); POULTRY (65%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) 3G Capital Management LLC; Brazil; Buffett, Warren E; Burger King Corp; Clinton, Chelsea; HJ Heinz Company; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Mezvinsky, Marc; HJ Heinz Company|HNZ|NYSE; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (74%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (73%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); CIA DE BEBIDAS DAS AMERICAS (AMBEV) (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (54%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (54%); BANCO DE INVESTIMENTOS GARANTIA SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: 3G Capital Management LLC; Burger King Corp; HJ Heinz Company

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (74%); BKW (NYSE) (73%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); AMBV3 (BOVESPA) (58%); ABV (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); BUD (NYSE) (57%); ABI (BRU) (57%); PPC (NASDAQ) (54%) HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (74%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (74%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (74%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (74%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (73%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (54%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (54%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (54%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (54%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%) Buffett, Warren E; Clinton, Chelsea; Mezvinsky, Marc

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



536 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: On the Road

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 

        
President Obama traveled to North Carolina Wednesday to highlight the resurgence in American manufacturing, which he emphasized in his State of the Union address. But while he was out promoting his plans, lawmakers questioned whether the ambitious agenda he laid out Tuesday could materialize, Mark Landler and Jonathan Weisman report.
 

        
Mr. Obama's call for free trade between the United States and the European Union is raising hopes for a pact that could not only raise economic growth but also lower prices for consumers and give new impetus to a long static relationship, Nicholas Kulish and Jackie Calmes report.

        
As senators gathered Wednesday for the first hearing on the proposals to overhaul immigration law, they said Mr. Obama's nonconfrontational tone during his State of the Union address was a strategic choice to give lawmakers more room to navigate the delicate issue, Ashley Parker reports.

        
The president's nominee for Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, calmly faced tough questioning from members of the Senate Finance Committee Wednesday, many of whom seemed intent on ruffling him for political points, Annie Lowrey reports.

        
As Republicans demanded more information before voting on Chuck Hagel's nomination to be secretary of defense, Senate Democrats accused them of obstructionismand moved Wednesday to force a vote by the weekend, Jeremy W. Peters and Mark Mazzetti report.
 Washington Happenings: 

        
Mr. Obama will visit a prekindergarten class in Decatur, Ga., on Thursday before speaking at a community center about his plan to make high-quality preschool available to every child. Later, he will participate in a "Fireside Hangout" using Google Plus to talk about his State of the Union address.

        
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will have lunch with President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy.

        
Secretary of State John Kerry is scheduled to have bilateral meetings with Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of the United Nations, and then with Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief. 

        
The Senate Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on "The Impacts of Sequestration," featuring testimony from Arne Duncan, secretary of education; Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security; Shaun Donovan, secretary of housing and urban development; and Ashton B. Carter, deputy secretary of defense.

        
The Senate Finance Committee will receive a progress report on the insurance exchanges established under the new health care law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); CITIES (50%) The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%); GIORGIO NAPOLITANO (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (52%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013



537 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Why Syria's Islamists Are Gaining

BYLINE: By J. MALCOLM GARCIA. 
J. Malcolm Garcia, a freelance journalist and a former social worker, is the author of ''The Khaarijee: A Chronicle of Friendship and War in Kabul.''

 BODY:
ALEPPO, Syria
A YOUNG fighter for the Free Syrian Army sat at a checkpoint on a couch taken from an abandoned house. He cradled his Kalashnikov and waited on the empty street for a car to inspect, or a pedestrian to pat down. If only the future of Syria would reveal itself to him as easily.
The rebels in the Free Syrian Army don't doubt that they will drive President Bashar al-Assad from power -- eventually -- but they have no idea what will happen afterward: Democracy? An Islamic republic? An Islamic dictatorship? The fighters I met on a recent visit here were unable to articulate any long-term political vision. 
While the young rebel sat at his checkpoint, and while Americans continue to debate whether to intervene in Syria or just look the other way, Islamist militants are exploiting the uncertainty here. They have a clear mission: imposing an Islamist state in place of Mr. Assad.
''The people who believe in a strict Islam will do anything, fight anybody, do anything for Islam,'' a barber who recently reopened his shop told me. ''They are like the U.S. Special Forces. They like death more than life.''
The grass-roots supporters of the Islamists whom I spoke with were a mixture of devout fundamentalist Muslims, returning merchants struggling to make ends meet, parents of dead fighters for the Free Syrian Army, and some of the fighters themselves.
They insisted that they wanted only a ''pure'' Islam, not a Taliban-style government, to replace the Assad family's regime, which has ruled Syria since 1971. But they offered examples of purity that sounded Talibanesque: Women must cover their entire bodies. Everyone must pray five times a day. Dancing should be prohibited. Differing interpretations of Islam would be tolerated, they say, as long as those beliefs remained ''a secret'' -- a kind of ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy.
What the Islamists conveyed most clearly, however, was a firm sense of direction. They also managed to deliver much-needed social services in the rebel-held parts of Aleppo.
Perhaps their determination and efficiency were meant to silence qualms about their ultimate goals; if so, the tactic seemed to be working. Just as Afghans welcomed the Taliban in the 1990s -- not for its harsh interpretation of Islam, but for the prospect of respite from decades of dislocation -- some Sunni Muslims in this ancient, multi-sectarian city are now embracing Islamists out of sheer exhaustion from the conflict, which is nearly two years old.
''I had a shop,'' one man told me, ''but when the revolution came to Aleppo I couldn't stock it, so I sold everything. Islamic youth organizations now give us flour. We need bread, at least, just to live. We support the Free Syrian Army, but the Islamists let us eat.''
If the West and moderate Arab nations want to prevent a Taliban-style dictatorship from replacing the current Baathist regime, it's time for them to offer Syrians more hope. The Syrians I met here seemed ready to support anyone, or anything -- except negotiations with Mr. Assad -- that could restore normalcy to their lives.
The United Nations recently reported that record numbers of Syrians have poured into Jordan and Lebanon. But as of late January, the United Nations fund for Syrian refugees had collected less than 20 percent of the $1.1 billion it had sought from donor nations to care for the refugees. And even that money would not begin to address Syria's shattered cities and ruined economy, even if the war were to end today.
So Syrians feel abandoned and increasingly skeptical of Western expressions of concern.
''Why did America go into Libya and not Syria?'' asked Abu-Mohammad al-Husen, a Free Syrian Army commander. ''In my opinion, America wants to maintain the war so Al-Assad won't have a huge army to attack Israel. America only cares about Israel. That's why we say only Allah and the jihadists support us.''
The Free Syrian Army soldiers, meanwhile, seem content with fighting a war with no clear end in sight.
One afternoon, I stood with a rebel commander as he rocketed a building that housed government soldiers. After he and his men fled the area shouting, ''God is great,'' he returned to his wife and children and considered watching a ''Lord of the Rings'' DVD. He had no firm plan to follow up the assault. ''Possibly tomorrow,'' he told me, ''when they won't expect us.''
His strategy embraced a skewed kind of logic, I suppose. Why rush? Without war, without guns, many of these fighters would most likely be unemployed or back at school. Their bravery and passion can't be denied, but the longer the war lasts, the longer they have a purpose. ''I don't know what will happen when the war ends,'' Akran Ahmed, a 16-year-old rebel, told me. ''I just have my gun.''
The belief that the enemy of my enemy is my friend has allowed the Free Syrian Army and the Islamists to cooperate -- but only for now. Disappointment about American disengagement seemed to grow by the day. ''Nobody there cares,'' Khaled Sandah, 49, whose son, a rebel, was killed in the fighting. ''They just talk and talk.'' He added: ''We will keep going with our own power and our guns and Allah. We will make victory ourselves and have freedom and an Islamic country.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX ROBBINS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RETAILERS (71%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



538 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Plans for U.S. Troop Drawdown Stir Concerns That Aid to Afghanistan Will Dry Up

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's decision to bring home more than half of the American troops in Afghanistan over the next year is setting off intensified debate over an issue with big consequences for Afghanistan's future: how long the United States and its allies should pour civilian aid into the country.
The 12-year effort to modernize and stabilize Afghanistan is by some measures the most ambitious nation-building program ever undertaken by the United States. It is also among the most scrutinized and second-guessed.
The program has given most Afghans access to health care for the first time, even if it is weighed down by corruption and waste. It has drawn violent reprisals from the Taliban but has helped educate a generation of Afghan girls. Accused of fostering a dependency culture, it has nonetheless provided the foundation for a functioning economy. 
But with most American and NATO troops set to leave by the end of 2014, advocates of continued aid are warning against too precipitous a cutoff of financing from the United States and its allies. They acknowledge that corruption in the Afghan government and budget-cutting pressure in Congress do not help their cause.
''Because we have so many of our own constraints economically right now, there's a huge possibility that Congress will say we're not going to provide $2.5 billion a year indefinitely,'' said Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group.
The administration and other advocates of aid are trying to maintain support for an international plan, agreed to last year among the major donor countries to Afghanistan, to scale back aid gradually so that the Afghan government and other institutions have plenty of time to adapt.
''Our record of creating really significant gains in Afghanistan over the last decade is what is going to enable us to continue to convince Congress and the American people that these investments are worth continuing to make,'' said J. Alex Thier, who heads the United States Agency for International Development's efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
At stake, advocates of aid and other experts say, is Afghanistan's ability to negotiate the next few crucial years, when the government will have to wean its economy, budget and social programs off foreign aid even as it takes over responsibility for security and fighting the Taliban.
American development assistance alone exceeds the roughly $2 billion a year in tax revenues collected by the Afghan government. Compounding the economic effects of disengagement is a sharp drop off in civilian spending by the American military, which is a major employer of Afghan civilians and contributes substantially to the nation's gross domestic product.
In a recent speech, John F. Sopko, the inspector general who monitors the cost-effectiveness of the reconstruction effort, said that United States officials in Afghanistan were keenly aware that the security and economic transitions were linked to each other.
''I think it's fair to say that the success or failure of our entire investment in Afghanistan is teetering on whether these two interrelated and ambitious goals can be met,'' Mr. Sopko said.
By the broadest measure of accounting for the costs of the effort, the United States has spent $90 billion on aid and reconstruction in Afghanistan since 2002, a figure that includes programs run by the United States military and the costs of providing security for the effort, according to Mr. Sopko's agency, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.
By the narrowest measure -- money funneled through U.S.A.I.D., the State Department agency that has taken the lead in the civilian aid program -- the total is $15 billion since 2002. Mr. Obama is likely to seek an additional $2 billion to $2.5 billion for each of the next several years to meet the commitments made by the United States at an international donors conference last year in Tokyo. The donor countries pledged to provide $16 billion in civil economic assistance to Afghanistan over the next four years, with about half to come from the United States.
''The key is how to manage declining aid, mitigate the adverse impacts, and put aid and spending on a more sustainable long-term path,'' the World Bank said in a report last year.
On a practical level, aid programs are already facing constraints because of the military pullback. With fewer bases scattered around Afghanistan, fewer troops on the ground and reduced air transportation, the military has less capacity to provide security for development teams.
More generally, some critics of the administration's approach say, there is no credible plan for improving ethics and accountability in the Afghan government, and insufficient assurance that aid programs can continue to function effectively as the international presence in Afghanistan diminishes, especially given all the other demands on taxpayer money and proliferating threats elsewhere.
Maintaining an effective and durable civilian presence in Afghanistan ''requires a clear case from the president that the result over the next decade will be worth more than putting resources into Asia, a Middle East in turmoil, a truly international counterterrorism effort or dealing with our domestic financial crisis,'' said a recent report by Anthony H. Cordesman, a scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''No one in the administration has even begun to make this case, and it desperately needs to be made if we are to stay.''
Congress will not take up the issue in earnest until later this year. But proponents of continued aid have gained support from an alliance of Democrats and Republicans eager to protect Afghan women and girls from a Taliban resurgence and to maintain the fragile stability gained by the United States' dozen years in Afghanistan.
''It's not going to be easy, but it is possible to make a strong case for strategic investments so that our soldiers will not have died in vain,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, who is a member of the appropriations subcommittee that allocates money for foreign aid.
Given the vulnerability of Afghan women and girls, Ms. Landrieu said, support for continued aid from female senators on both sides of the aisle can be ''a bulwark against the natural tendency to retrench.''
But as the debate plays out, some aid advocates say they worry that the problems that have surrounded aid efforts during the war will taint the whole idea of civilian assistance, even though it is only a tiny slice of United States government spending.
''I've often worried that the lesson from Iraq and Afghanistan -- and especially Afghanistan -- is that we don't know how to do foreign aid, and therefore we shouldn't continue to provide aid at the levels we have been,'' said Ms. Wadhams of the Center for American Progress.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Afghan woman and child begging in Herat. Aid proponents worry about protecting women and girls from the Taliban. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AREF KARIMI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



539 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Service Cuts May Arise With Merger Of Airlines

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
And then there were three.
The airline industry took a decisive step toward greater concentration on Thursday with the announcement that American Airlines and US Airways had agreed to merge, forming the nation's biggest airline. The merged airline, to be called American, leaves just three major carriers -- Delta Air Lines and United Airlines too -- able to offer extensive domestic and international service, a sharp contraction over the last decade.
But while airline executives argue that mergers are good for passengers because they bring more service to more destinations, some economists and consumer advocates warn that all this consolidation comes at a price for travelers.
With fewer carriers, passengers have fewer options; fares and fees are now more likely to go up, particularly for flights between midsize cities. And more cities, especially smaller ones, can expect to see further reductions in service. 
''It's much easier to have tacit collusion with just three airlines,'' said George Hoffer, a transportation economist at the University of Richmond. ''It's not illegal. But it's like having a few big people in a small boat. Anyone's decisions tie you all together.''
That helps explain why fees had become so uniform within the industry in recent years, he said, and why all airlines now charge extra fees beyond ticket prices for things like checking bags, rebooking reservations or even picking seats or boarding early.
Those extra fees now account for a growing share of airline revenue and are a big reason behind the industry's renewed profitability.
Fares, too, have risen in recent years, according to the latest government statistics. Some of that increase, analysts said, reflects rising oil prices. And while airfares on average are still lower than they were in 1995, once adjusted for inflation, they have been steadily rising since 2008.
But some airports, where the number of carriers has fallen, have had steep increases in fares. Ticket prices between Delta's hub in Atlanta and Detroit, for instance, rose more than 20 percent from 2007 to 2011, while the number of carriers serving that route fell to two from four, according to a study released last year.
Still, most analysts expect the merger to be cleared by federal antitrust authorities, who have approved seven major mergers in the last decade.
The last time the Justice Department challenged a merger was the proposed combination of United Airlines and US Airways in 2001. That merger was rejected on the ground it would reduce choice and possibly lead to higher fares.
Since then, regulators have taken a different view of airline mergers. Instead of looking at any carrier's overall market share, antitrust authorities now examine whether a merger would decrease competition on specific routes.
The department raised no objections to the merger of Delta and Northwest in 2008. It required United to sell only a handful of takeoff rights at Newark Liberty Airport before allowing its merger with Continental in 2010. And when Southwest bought AirTran, federal regulators found in 2011 that ''the merged firm will be able to offer new service routes that neither serves today.''
A decade ago, the Justice Department ''would not have stomached mergers the size of Delta-Northwest, United-Continental, or American-US Airways,'' said Paul Stephen Dempsey, a professor of global governance in air and space law at McGill University. ''Now, having approved the gargantuan Delta and United acquisitions, it cannot equitably deny American the same.''
''Apparently, Washington believes that this is the optimum path to industry health, and that concentration and collusion is preferable to regulated competition,'' he said.
Airline executives say mergers are necessary to reduce financial volatility and restore a measure of stability to a business that lost about $60 billion in the last decade. Instead of stifling competition, the argument goes, bigger airlines with bigger networks provide passengers with more travel options, more destinations and, theoretically, better service.
''I have been a long proponent of consolidation in the industry,'' W. Douglas Parker, the chairman of US Airways, said Thursday about his airline's merger with American. ''And this is the last major piece needed to rationalize the industry and make it profitable.''
Mr. Parker said that the two airlines had only 12 overlapping routes out of a combined 900. In addition, he said, more cities would be served. American flies to 130 cities that US Airways does not serve, and US Airways flies to 62 cities not served by American.
Airline analysts said passengers would benefit from the mergers in some ways. Airlines are now in a much better position to buy new planes, invest in new services and build better lounges.
Since its merger, Delta has invested in new terminals in Atlanta and New York, and new business-class seats on its planes, for instance.
''The U.S. industry has really turned the tide,'' said John F. Thomas, an airline consultant with L.E.K. Consulting. ''Historically, airlines haven't had the funds to invest. But they are now making healthy returns and are willing to invest them back in new products.''
Mr. Thomas also pointed out that the mergers allowed airlines to reduce the number of hubs, the big reason for the industry's excess capacity. ''That's a pretty substantial change in the structure of the industry,'' he said.
But in some cases, airline dominance at particular airports has made it harder for rivals to compete, and contributed to higher fares, according to a report last year by the American Antitrust Institute, a nonprofit group that lobbies for more competition, and the Business Travel Coalition.
It said mergers had hastened a ''troubling metamorphosis'' of the industry, ''from one in which hub airports were designed to accommodate multiple, competing airlines to a few large, closed systems that are virtually impermeable to competition.''
The study found that routes operated by both United and Delta had experienced bigger than average fare increases after their respective mergers, while competition decreased. The study found that the number of airlines serving Newark to San Francisco, two major hubs for United, dropped to one from three, and average ticket prices rose more than 30 percent from 2009 to 2011.
The mergers, of course, have not eliminated competition. Along with the three big carriers, Southwest Airlines still holds a substantial share of the domestic market. With its purchase of AirTran, Southwest has also set its sights on international destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean.
But Southwest's period of unfettered growth is over -- and so is its ability to provide a cheaper alternative. There are few markets left where Southwest can now enter and slash fares to quickly gain market share -- its winning strategy for decades.
In May, the airline announced it would lease to Delta its fleet of Boeing 717 jets that it inherited when buying AirTran, a move that signals the airline does not see much expansion for its fleet for the next five years, according to Timothy O'Neil-Dunne, a managing partner at T2Impact, an aviation consulting firm.
''Southwest is not being a disrupter anymore,'' Mr. O'Neil-Dunne said.
The biggest challenge for the new American Airlines will be to integrate the two airlines' operations over the next couple of years. That is no easy task since airline mergers are often rocky -- involving complex technological systems, big reservation networks as well as large labor groups with different corporate cultures that all need to be combined seamlessly.
The merger is expected to be completed in the third quarter, but it will be at least another year until the carrier gets its single operating certificate.
And the road ahead promises to be bumpy. United angered passengers last year after a series of merger-related computer and reservation mistakes, and late and delayed flights.
''Mergers are difficult,'' said Darryl Jenkins, the chairman of the American Aviation Institute, a research and consulting firm. ''They require two things. Prozac because they will test your patience as a passenger. And Dramamine for all the turbulence you will go through. There will be a point where passengers will be interrupted for a while. These things happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Horton, left, of American, and Douglas Parker, of US Airways, on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA MCWILLIAM/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) MAP: The Benefits of Combining: American Airlines and US Airways currently have hubs in complementary regions. If the merger between the two airlines is approved, the combined carrier will have a strong presence across the nation. (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); MERGERS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (77%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); APPROVALS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); TICKET SALES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); MARKET SHARE (64%); STATISTICS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (93%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (93%); LCC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



540 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 6641 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death and Transformation in the Americas' (continuing) For generations, one of the first things visitors to Brooklyn Museum encountered was the Hall of the Americas, the two-story rotunda right off the main lobby. And when you were in it, you knew you were home. A few years ago during renovations, the museum put the Americas material in storage, but now it's back in new galleries on the fifth floor. The look is very different -- ultraminimalist Arctic white and sky blue -- but the 102 objects, from a collection that is a jewel in Brooklyn's crown, are utterly gripping. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter) 
Brooklyn Museum: 'Go: a community-curated open studio project' (through Feb. 24) Inspired by ArtPrize, an art competition in Grand Rapids, Mich., that awards money to artists based on votes by the public, and by local open-studios programs, the Brooklyn Museum created a contest in which the award was a spot in this exhibition. More than 1,800 artists registered with the museum; visitors went out to their studios and voted; and the Top 10 artists were whittled down to 5 by Brooklyn Museum curators. The results are less than stellar. ''Go'' has not unearthed any hidden masters of the borough, but it does raise questions about who should choose what appears in museums and what constitutes ''great'' art. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zarina: Paper Like Skin' (through April 21) ''Paper is an organic material, almost like human skin,'' the artist Zarina Hashmi has said. In her exhibition at the Guggenheim, it's that and more: paper is sculpture, poetry, currency and, above all, a kind of permanent home for a nomadic spirit. Her art speaks poignantly, though sometimes opaquely, of relocation and exile; works like the 2001 woodcut ''Dividing Line'' reference the violent 1947 partition of India and Pakistan, while ''Ten Thousand Things,'' a set of small paper collages recreating works from her oeuvre, nods to Duchamp's museum-in-a-suitcase. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Jewish Museum: 'Sharon Lockhart/Noa Eshkol' (through March 24) Sharon Lockhart's film installation is based on the dances by Noa Eshkol (1924-2007), a little-known (in this country) Israeli choreographer who, along with the architect Avraham Wachman, developed a system that uses numbers and symbols to record body movement. Ms. Lockhart's photographs are of spherical models designed by Ms. Eshkol and Mr. Wachman; ephemera include actual notation, posters announcing Ms. Eshkol's performances and historical photographs. Textile works on display upstairs were made by Ms. Eshkol later in her life. The total functions as a new project by Ms. Lockhart and as a two-person exhibition, a combination of homage and appropriation that both recuperates a ''forgotten'' artist and respectfully presents her work and ideas, while simultaneously mining them to create a new body of artwork. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Matisse: In Search of True Painting' (through March 17) This stunning exhibition skims across the great French modernist's long, productive career with a mere 49 stellar, often pivotal paintings arranged in pairs or groups according to subject. Examining his penchant for working in series and copying his own canvases, they shed new light on the arduous evolution of Matisse's seemingly effortless art, forming one of the most thrillingly instructive exhibitions about the artist, or painting in general, that you may ever see. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Path of Nature: French Paintings from the Wheelock Whitney Collection, 1785-1850' (through April 21) ''Sparkle with repose'' was the effect the British artist John Constable said he was after in his landscapes. His French contemporaries had the same idea. Today, Constable's a star. But León Pallière? Adrien Dauzats? Alexandre-Hyacinthe Dunouy? Only wonkish scholars are likely to know their names. Lucky for them, and for us, that one of those scholars is Whitney Wheelock III, who has a passion for French art from the years between neo-classicism and Romanticism, and a special love for gleaming little oil sketches done out of doors. In 2003 he gave his pictures to the Met, where 50 of them, along with some exquisitely funky genre paintings, make up this small gem of a show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Ken Johnson)
MoMA PS1: 'Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980' (through March 11) This exhibition of works by black artists who lived and worked in Los Angeles during a time of revolutionary changes happening in art and society had its debut at the Hammer Museum last year as part of the citywide extravaganza ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980.'' Focusing mainly on assemblage, the show includes pieces by Melvin Edwards, Betye Saar, David Hammons and nearly 30 others. It contributes a valuable chapter to the American art history of the last 50 years. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Drawing Surrealism' (through April 21) This sensational show of 165 works by 70 artists from 15 countries traces the movement from its early automatist stirrings to the doorstep of Abstract Expressionism. Expanding the field of players with numerous new names, it also has a wonderful clarity, organized according to the techniques that the Surrealists commandeered (collage and photography), breathed life into (frottage, decalcomania and exquisite corpse) and frequently crossbred. It may be among the best encapsulations of Surrealism you will ever see. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Tokyo 1955-1970: A New Avant-Garde' (through Feb. 25) Modernist art, insurgent and utopian, ignited like a firecracker cluster in cities across the globe in the early 20th century, and Tokyo was one of them. Rising from the ashes after World War II, it produced huge amounts of new art, feisty, fantastic, often politically subversive. And a wave of it comes surging out at you like a blast of sound -- half noise, half music -- in this surprising exhibition made up of loans from Japan and little-seen material from MoMA's collection. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Wolfgang Laib: Pollen From Hazelnut' (through March 11) Mr. Laib is the honeybee of the international art world. Since the 1970s, his trademark activity has been gathering pollen from trees and plants in the countryside near his home in southern Germany. He puts the pollen in bottles and flies to distant places around the world to create ephemeral installations of yellow dust on museum and gallery floors and inseminate the minds of his viewers with thoughts of harmony between human civilization and nature. ''Pollen From Hazelnut,'' in MoMA's atrium, is his largest pollen field to date. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)
Neue Galerie: 'German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces From the Neue Galerie Collection' (through April 22) German Expressionism was a messy, complicated movement, with numerous stylistic and philosophical variations. It's not easily corralled into a tidy overview, despite the best efforts of the Neue Galerie in this collection show. The installation sorts everything into two groups, using the rubrics of ''primitivism'' and ''modernity.'' ''Primitivism'' seems to mean the gallery of jarringly bright, vigorously brushy paintings by members of the Brücke and the Blaue Reiter; under ''modernity'' are Neue Sachlichkeit portraits by Otto Dix, George Grosz, Christian Schad and others, made with caustic humor and an eye for the grotesque. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through March 31) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Fore' (through March 10) In 2001 the Studio Museum in Harlem opened a dynamite group exhibition called ''Freestyle,'' which turned out to be the first in a series of shows introducing emerging artists of African-American descent. In the latest edition, ''Fore,'' organized by three young staff curators, Lauren Haynes, Naima J. Keith and Thomas J. Lax, covers the waterfront in terms of media, which it samples and mixes with turntablist flair, and in its contents, ranging from abstract to personal to political, sometimes combining all three. Firelei Báez, Sadie Barnette, Crystal Z. Campbell, Zachary Fabri, Yashua Klos, Akosua Adoma Owusu, Valerie Piraino and Nikki Pressley are some of the names to look for. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (through April 28) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. Whitney Museum of American Art, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
Paul Laffoley: 'The Boston Visionary Cell' (through March 9) Judging by his mandala-type compositions on usually square canvases, Mr. Laffoley has yet to encounter a system of mystical thought he could not absorb into his own project. Profusely annotated with press-on vinyl letters, his works refer to a dizzying array of mental adventurers from Socrates to the Theosophist charlatan Madame Blavatsky. This show is an excellent introduction to one of the most unusual creative minds of our time. Kent Fine Art, 210 West 11th Avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets, (212) 365-9500, kentfineart.net. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Distance and Desire: Encounters with the African Archive (Part II: Contemporary Reconfigurations)' (through March 9) Africa is an unstinting source of new photography, of which New York would see little were it not for a few commercial galleries and the Walther Collection. Last fall the Walther, a German foundation with a project space in Chelsea, initiated a series of three consecutive exhibitions under the umbrella title ''Distance and Desire: Encounters With the African Archive.'' The first show included European ethnographic photography. The current one illustrates how much a product of invention and fantasy ethnography can be. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
Song Dong: 'Doing Nothing' (through March 2) The artist's first New York gallery show (spread through two of Pace Gallery's three spaces on West 25th Street) mostly retraces his early days as a pioneer of the Chinese branch of international Conceptualism with competent if generic videos and photographic pieces that seem slicked up for their current presentation. Best is a quasi-stop-action video of ''Doing Nothing,'' the wonderful temporary earthwork Mr. Song contributed to last summer's Documenta 13. Some artists are strongest in the festival format. Pace Gallery, 510 West 25th Street, (212) 255-4040; this portion of the show closes on Saturday. Also at 534 West 25th Street, (212) 929-7000, pacegallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Giorgio Griffa: 'Fragments, 1968-2012' (through March 2) This Italian painter's second New York gallery show comes 43 years after his first, reintroducing his subtle, stripped-down works on raw, unstretched, visibly folded canvas. With cryptic batches of repeating lines and strokes in glowing colors, they test how little it takes for something to qualify as a painting. Their spare, idiosyncratic beauty expands the history of Arte Povera and resonates with much abstract painting today. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, (212) 645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Zwelethu Mthethwa: 'New Works' (through Feb. 23) The South African photographer Zwelethu Mthethwa's gripping portraits strike an unusual public-private balance, whether they are taken outside or in the close quarters of migrant workers' hostel rooms. This show, his sixth at the Shainman Gallery, opens with new photographs of young men in religious uniforms. Wearing long-sleeved white shirts with contrasting kilts and knee socks, these members of the Nazareth Baptist Church (also known as Shembe) strike confident poses in green meadows. In another recent series, middle-aged women sit beside their hope chests, the contents of which are off-limits to us. Jack Shainman Gallery, 513 West 20th Street, (212) 645-1701, jackshainman.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Dieter Roth. Björn Roth (through April 12) Concentrating on the collaborations of the Swiss-German maverick Dieter Roth (1930-98) and his son Bjorn, this sprawling show adds a veneer of class to the inauguration of Chelsea's latest oversize trophy gallery. Numerous large, messy works noisily navigate the border between art and life. But the best does so quietly: the 128-monitor video piece ''Solo Scenes'' simply records the elder Roth living out life in his studio-home in Basel. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
Suzanne Treister: 'Hexen 2.0' (through Feb. 23) This British artist has a unifying theory about everything that would concern a person worried about the current global state of affairs. Ms. Treister delivers her thinking in the form of a set of Tarot cards, each card illustrating in diagrammatic cartoon drawings and handwritten text a person, idea or event that changed the course of 20th-century history. The individually framed, hand-colored prints resemble the efforts of a paranoid hippie. P.P.O.W, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 647-1044, ppowgallery.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: SoHo
Martin Soto Climent: 'Mariposas Migratorias (Migratory Butterflies)' (through March 2) Martin Soto Climent, who is from Mexico City, is a Conceptual sculptor in the mold of Gabriel Orozco and Damián Ortega; his works, like theirs, often produce succinct poetry from the slightest recontexualizations, juxtapositions and alterations of found objects. That's almost the case in his latest solo show, where the primary material (automobile windshields) and the key metaphor (migratory butterflies) never quite connect. Clifton Benevento, 515 Broadway, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo, (212) 431-6325, cliftonbenevento.com. (Rosenberg)
Alexandre Singh: 'The Pledge' (through March 13) One of the first projects done in the United States by the French-born, British-raised artist Alexandre Singh was a sprawling, delirious collaboration with Jonah Freeman and Justin Lowe titled ''Hello Meth Lab in the Sun,'' installed at the Ballroom Marfa in Texas. Mr. Singh's solo exhibition at the Drawing Center is another full-gallery, somewhat psychedelic installation, albeit a considerably more subdued one. Black-and-white inkjet prints of collages that Mr. Singh made in response to interviews with artists and scientists are arranged like maps and schematics on the gallery's walls. It's a sleek display, vibrating with art historical references. But despite the high-tone interview subjects and visual references the show is unsparingly vapid, about as exciting as paging through a design magazine. 35 Wooster Street, Soho, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Schwendener)
Galleries: Other
'Beat Memories: The Photographs of Allen Ginsberg' (through April 6) During two periods in his life -- from the early 1950s to about 1964 and from the early '80s until his death in 1997 -- the poet Allen Ginsberg made photographs and added handwritten captions. Images of his now famous pals, including the writers Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Gregory Corso, as well as Neal Cassady, their logorrheic muse, make this show required viewing for Beat fans. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
'Andy Kaufman's 99cent Tour' (through Feb. 24) Organized in conjunction with an exhibition at Maccarone, this series of evening screenings and discussions will present home movies and various Kaufman concerts and shows in their entirety; delve into his record collection; and examine his preoccupation with professional wrestling. Sundry Kaufman friends, relatives and colleagues as well as interested artists will preside. Participant Inc., 253 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 254-4334, participantinc.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Looking Back: The 7th White Columns Annual' (through Feb. 23) This recap of the 2012 art season is by Richard Birkett, the curator at Artists Space, and it's a smart one, with many unobvious, un-Chelsea choices. There's only one painting, but a lot that's painting-like. Sculpture abounds. (Yuji Agematsu, who showed at Real Arts in Brooklyn last spring, has a room hung with tiny street-junk assemblage.) Video and photography are in good supply, as is reading material, with texts by Chris Kraus and Tan Lin. Piece by piece, the show feels cool and abstruse, like a set of conceptual locks to be picked. But there are many rewards and a large overarching one: Mr. Bickett makes the art season past look more interesting in retrospect than it did when it was happening. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street), (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; 'On Creating Reality, by Andy Kaufman' (through Feb. 23) As idiosyncratic in format as in content, this exhibition presents the art and artifacts of Andy Kaufman (1949-84), so-called anti-comic, outlying Conceptualist and performance artist and precursor to relational aesthetics. It includes letters, scripts, records (45s and LPs), tour schedules, props, costumes and much else; a selection of television and club clips as well as an interactive component. Each day, a Kaufman friend, colleague or relative has gamely agreed to be present, reminiscing, answering questions and serving as exhibition guide. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net. (Smith)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: 'Ai Weiwei: According to What?' (through Feb. 24) As seen in its first American survey, the work of the lionhearted Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, is no match for his prominent role as a human rights advocate. The sculptures and installation pieces too often adhere to the fashionable international genre of handsome, Conceptually generated artworks. Explanatory labels do much of the heavy lifting, along with historically-charged materials and objects, like Chinese antique furniture and wood from destroyed Qing dynasty temples. The artist's photographs and videos suggest that his documentary work may be best. On the National Mall, at Independence Avenue Southwest and Seventh Street, Washington, (202) 633-4674, hirshhorn.si.edu; free. (Smith)
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through April 28) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
Maya Bloch: 'here you are' (closes on Sunday) Borrowing a few weapons from the Surrealists' arsenal of automatism, Maya Bloch takes aim at the figure in her third solo at Thierry Goldberg. Muddling oil, ink and acrylic, Ms. Bloch generates an impressive range of effects: some faces are marbled, while others have rivulets of watery paint that bring to mind works by Max Ernst. Pieces with multiple figures, all with dark, deep-set eyes and pasty white faces, start to feel formulaic. But the solo characters have distinct personalities, even if their bodies appear to be on the brink of dissolution. Thierry Goldberg Gallery, 103 Norfolk Street, between Rivington and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 967-2260, thierrygoldberg.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Materializing ''Six Years'': Lucy R. Lippard and the Emergence of Conceptual Art' (closes on Sunday) This big, intellectually enthralling exhibition of Conceptual works from the 1960s and early '70s is not a conventional museum period survey. Rather, it approximates how the rise of Conceptualism was seen while it was happening by one person: the curator, critic and writer Lucy R. Lippard, who was an extraordinarily energetic participant in and promoter of a trend that brought us the triumph of mind over matter in art. Anyone who wants art to be radically defiant of the market-driven system must see it. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Daniel Buren: 'Electricity, paper, vinyl...' (closes on Saturday) This well-known French Conceptualist, who reduced painting to awning stripes printed on canvas or paper, has probably eked more mileage out of this end-of-painting motif than anyone should rightly expect. In the better of two concurrent solo shows nearly around the corner from each other, he tailors earlier pieces to the gallery's architecture, creating what are in effect intermittent expanses of wallpaper that alter our sense of a space and create a nice graphic, even decorative punch. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)
Daniel Buren: 'Electricity Fabric Paint Paper Vinyl' (closes on Saturday) Here, the French artist Daniel Buren adds several new twists to his signature awning-striped canvas, including sheets of Plexiglas, luminescence and glowing strands of fiber optics. In addition to being arbitrary, conventional art-objects, the results conjure the early-1960s efforts of artists like Frank Stella and Robert Mangold. These pieces might as well be derivative student works that Mr. Buren abandoned to make the site-specific pieces for which he is known. Bortolami, 520 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2050, bortolamigallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Hugh Steers' (closes on Saturday) Early paintings by Hugh Steers, who died in 1995 at 32, were stylistically conservative tableaus about psychological self-discovery. With the coming of AIDS, and his own illness, his art gained a sharp sense of purpose. Some of the pictures here are of single male figures isolated in shadowed rooms; most are of male couples and are set in a narrow bathroom with a claw-foot tub. The work is carried by cinematic strategies -- scenes viewed from high overhead or up from below -- that create a sense of inescapable enclosure, and by an operatic flare, appropriate to an art that was staging the sovereign emotions (fear, defiance, love and regret) of a desperate time. Alexander Gray Associates, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 399-2636, alexandergray.com. (Cotter)
Maria Loboda: 'General Electric' (closes on Saturday) The small, isolated works here, by an artist who contributed a ''moving forest'' to last summer's Documenta festival, find natural forces resisting our attempts to tame or harness them. In photographs, traditional English gardens, with their rows of conical shrubberies, are set against marbled backgrounds. More intriguing are the tree branches and clumps of selenite (a mineral found in the desert) that hang from points along the ceiling, and a series of blackened steel bars that define the edges of the gallery. Andrew Kreps, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'George Bellows' (closes on Monday) Organized by the National Gallery in Washington, this exhibition starts strong with the lush early paintings of New York City and its residents for which Bellows is justifiably well known. It then devotes more than half its space to a disorganized reprise of his restless but steady artistic decline, which ended with his death in 1925 at 42 from a ruptured appendix. It does little to clarify his achievement, partly because of the short shrift given to his plein air oil studies and late landscape paintings. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Doris Duke's Shangri La: Architecture, Landscape and Islamic Art' (closes on Sunday) The Honolulu estate known as Shangri La is a masterpiece of refined eclecticism. Doris Duke, the owner, referred to it as a ''Spanish-Moorish-Persian-Indian complex.'' Whatever you call it, it looks magnificent in this show and the accompanying book. Both combine sparkling new color shots of the home and gardens taken by Tim Street-Porter; architectural documents and vintage photographs; pieces of the collection; and projects by contemporary artists who had residencies at Shangri La (which has served, since Duke's death in 1993, as the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
New-York Historical Society: 'John Rogers: American Stories' (closes on Monday) The sculptor John Rogers (1829-1904) was the Norman Rockwell of his time. For a few decades following the Civil War, his lively, anecdotal, figurative tableaus known as Rogers Groups sold by the tens of thousands to middle- and upper-middle-class folks for about $15 apiece. Including examples of the technically impressive bronze masters from which the multiples were cast in plaster, this exhibition showcases an artist who was as remarkable for his entrepreneurial savvy as for his idealistic vision of life in America. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
John A. Parks: 'Paint and Memory' (closes on Saturday) The strange, seemingly innocent paintings that dominate this show are small, based on the artist's childhood memories and painted with his fingers. The loosely Pointillist, somewhat Vuillardian hazes of color, light and form that result demarcate trees, gardens, brick buildings, puffy clouds and, above all, scrambling children, whose feral energy and natural subversiveness are vividly conveyed. The distinction between illustration and painting is rendered moot by the teeming quality of both surface and subject. 532 Gallery Thomas Jaeckel, 532 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (917) 701-3338, 532gallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Richard Ross: 'Juvenile-in-Justice' (closes on Saturday) Over the past five years Richard Ross has been photographing juvenile detention facilities across the country and inmates, male and female, most in their mid-teens. Some were imprisoned for violent crimes and would eventually be transferred to adult prisons. Others were in for lesser offenses and less time. Lock-down oversight rather than outreach therapy seems the institutional rule. Conceptually, the show is a sobering trip down the dead-end street that is America's prison system. Visually, it's as gripping as any art around, and comes with a memorable epigraph by Booker T. Washington: ''The study of art that does not result in making the strong less willing to oppose the weak means little.'' Ronald Feldman Fine Art, 31 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3232, feldmangallery.com. (Cotter)
Jacolby Satterwhite: 'The Matriarch's Rhapsody' (closes on Saturday) Mr. Satterwhite's eight-minute video ''Reifying Desire 5,'' the main attraction of his first solo show in New York, is a hallucinogenic tossed salad of different kinds of animation. In a silver jump suit, Mr. Satterwhite dances athletically through a vertiginous flux of glimmering abstract and representational imagery, including offbeat texts -- rendered like rubbery neon signs -- from drawings by his mother. Monya Rowe, 504 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5065, monyarowegallery.com. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HESTER, 2012 ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/ADAGP, PARIS, MENIL COLLECTION, HOUSTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (75%); OHIO, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (67%); NIGERIA (67%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



541 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Now Atlanta Is Turning Old Tracks Green

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Until last year, the old railroad tracks that snaked through east Atlanta were derelict. Kudzu, broken bottles and plastic bags covered the rusting rails.
But these days, the two-mile corridor bustles with joggers, bikers and commuters. Along a trail lined with pine and sassafras trees, condos are under construction and a streetcar is planned.
The Eastside Trail, as the path is known, is one of the first legs of an ambitious proposal that has been in the works since the early 2000s -- to transform 22 miles of vine-covered railroad into parks, housing and public transit around Atlanta. 
''We are changing Atlanta into a city that you can enjoy by walking and riding a bike,'' Mayor Kasim Reed said. ''We have been so car-centric that you didn't experience the city in an intimate way.''
But the Eastside Trail is only a start. And while some civic boosters, among them Mr. Reed, are calling for the pace to accelerate (he wants to see the entire loop paved and streetcars installed within a decade), the fulfillment of the grand plan, called the Atlanta BeltLine, is not assured.
Countless obstacles remain -- from purchasing land, digging up decades-old tracks and routing the trail around operating trains and freight yards. But the greatest challenge is financing. The city and a host of nonprofits have raised $350 million through private donations and property taxes on the $2.8 billion project.
Voters last year rejected a penny sales tax that would have allotted $600 million. And a special property tax, created in 2005, has generated less revenue than expected before the market collapse. Last week, the State Supreme Court heard arguments from a group of taxpayers who say school taxes have been spent unconstitutionally to pay for part of the BeltLine.
Critics have urged that the project be scaled back. The city's biggest transit challenge, they argue, is not beautifying in-town neighborhoods but reducing gridlock from the suburbs.
''The BeltLine doesn't go where people want or need to go,'' said Michael Dobbins, an architecture professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology, who has studied the project's feasibility. ''The parks and trails are great, but it makes no sense to add streetcars while traffic elsewhere is so bad, especially in this economy.''
But supporters point to signs of progress: 60 acres of parks have been built and five miles paved for bike baths in the past five years. Thousands of people walk and bike along the Eastside Trail, which runs from the city's largest park to the historically black and rapidly gentrifying Old Fourth Ward neighborhood, where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was born and lived.
Mr. Reed said rising property values, private donations and federal grants will bridge the financial gap. ''These changes are happening in the teeth of the worst economy in 80 years,'' he said. ''The pace of the BeltLine will pick up.''
''Rails-to-trails'' projects are gaining steam across the country. Every year, 450 miles of railroad fall out of use. Cities are converting the unused tracks into green space and bike trails.
In Chicago, an elevated three-mile path is being built atop an old freight line. Seattle is turning 13 miles of track into bike trails. Four million people a year travel on New York's version, the High Line, which runs along an elevated platform above Manhattan.
In total, more than 21,000 miles of railroad track has become paths across the country, according to the Rails-to-Trails Conservancy. The nonprofit group says 9,000 more miles are available to be converted.
The BeltLine would be the most expensive rails-to-trails project, urban planners say. It would add 40 percent more parks to Atlanta. Only 4.6 percent of Atlanta is parkland, compared with 25 percent in New Orleans and 19 percent in New York.
''Projects like this come along very rarely,'' said Christopher B. Leinberger, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who specializes in urban redevelopment. ''If Atlanta finds money to add rail, the BeltLine will be one of the most important transportation projects of the 21st century.''
The BeltLine links 45 neighborhoods. The 14-foot-wide path spans wealthy and poor parts of Atlanta, running through dense urban areas and lush woods, within a two- to four-mile radius of downtown.
The idea began humbly, as a graduate thesis at Georgia Tech. In 1999, a student, Ryan Gravel, proposed an overhaul of the railroad corridor. He expected the 120-page academic paper to gather dust at a campus library, he said.
Instead a city councilwoman, Cathy Woolard, who later became the Council's president, heard about the proposal and seized on it. She forged an unlikely coalition of environmentalists, transit officials, local artists and real estate developers. The city began buying the railroad corridor in 2007.
''People want to live in a city where the design makes sense,'' Mr. Gravel said. ''It's not only changing the physical form of the city. It's changing the way we think about the city.''
Construction along the Eastside Trail has boomed. The largest real estate project is a 2.1 million-square-foot former Sears distribution center that is being converted into apartments, restaurants and a rooftop miniature golf course.
Skip Engelbrecht owns an antique furniture store, Paris on Ponce, that backs up to the Eastside Trail. He said business has increased tenfold over the past two years as the trail opened.
''It's unreal. We used to worry about homeless people back there and now it's like a boardwalk,'' Mr. Engelbrecht. ''We're planning a new entrance in the back, maybe a coffee shop someday. It's hard to imagine this was all an old railroad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ryan Gravel, who conceived the Atlanta BeltLine as part of his master's thesis, on the site in January. The project would transform the railroad corridors around downtown Atlanta and spans wealthy and poor parts of the city. Left, some of the old railroad tracks still remain. (A14)
 Bonjovi the dog got a concert and a ride on the Eastside Trail one Saturday last month. The project links 45 neighborhoods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MAYORS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SUBURBS (72%); SALES TAX (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); APPEALS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



542 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Cruise Line's Woes Are Far From Over As Ship Makes Port

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN, KIM SEVERSON and BARRY MEIER; Robbie Brown reported from Mobile, Kim Severson from Atlanta, and Barry Meier from New York. Marc Santora contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
MOBILE, Ala. -- Thousands of hungry and unwashed passengers gathered on the decks of the lifeless Triumph cruise ship, singing ''Sweet Home Alabama,'' waving towels and cheering as the vessel was pulled into dock here late on Thursday. For 4,200 passengers and crew, the fetid ordeal of five days adrift in the Gulf of Mexico was over.
But for the ship's owner, Carnival Cruise Lines, with headquarters in both Florida and England, the real work was just beginning.
There were the immediate concerns, among them how to get the passengers home once they got off the ship, a process that was set to begin shortly after the ship docked Thursday at 9:30 p.m. Central time. Also at issue was how and why a fire came to knock out the propulsion system, the power, and the sewage, heating and air-conditioning systems on the 14-year-old ship, which had mechanical troubles last month that delayed a similar cruise to Mexico. 
Company officials said the two episodes were not related, but their proximity may help inspire a wall of legal actions from passengers, experts said.
And the problems of the Triumph fit into a larger picture, too, one painted by a booming cruise industry that increasingly is priced for the middle class but that critics say has become too large too fast and needs stronger, more consistent oversight.
With the industry's popularity has come concerns over safety, pollution and the impact of thousands of tourists. Communities including Key West, Fla.; Sitka, Alaska; and Charleston, S.C., are weighing the economic gains against the cultural and environmental impact of an industry with ships that can accommodate more than 6,000 people.
''There are more ships out there, so we are seeing a higher number of incidents like this, and that is not good for the cruise industry,'' said Ross Klein, a faculty member at Memorial University in Newfoundland who has testified before Congress on the safety and environmental impact of cruise ships.
Some of the Triumph's passengers kissed the dry ground as they exited the long ramp from the boat. Others ran to hug relatives. By 10:30 p.m., buses headed to New Orleans were leaving from the dock.
''I'm just so blessed to be home,'' said Kendall Jenkins, 24, crying and wearing a bathrobe to keep warm. ''I don't want to hear the word 'cruise' ever again.''
The passengers had left the Port of Galveston in Texas on Thursday for what was to be a four-day cruise to Cozumel, Mexico. They ended up sleeping for five days on sewage-soaked carpets and open decks, with food so limited that they were reduced to eating candy and ketchup on buns.
''It's like being locked in a Porta Potty for days,'' said Peter Cass, a physician from Beaumont, Tex., as the ship crept closer to Mobile on Thursday. ''We've lived through two hurricanes, and this is worse.''
The cruise industry, which has been growing at a rate of nearly 8 percent a year since 1980, hit critical mass in the United States last year when more than 14 million people stepped onto ships looking for a convenient vacation offering the excitement of the open seas and exotic ports, along with casinos, unlimited buffets and umbrella drinks.
''We pride ourselves on providing our guests a great vacation experience,'' said Gerald R. Cahill, the chief executive of Carnival, before boarding the ship on Thursday to apologize to passengers. ''Clearly, we failed in this particular case.''
In 2011, about 3 percent of Americans took a cruise, according to the Cruise Lines International Association. That is fewer than half the number of people who ski, but cruising is growing faster.
And even the specter of passengers being trapped on the Triumph for five days will not necessarily slow the popularity of cruises, said Matthew Jacob, an analyst with ITG Investment Research.
While there may be some fallout, he said, most travelers have gotten used to seeing television reports about cruises that were aborted because of mechanical problems and hearing about viruses that ran rampant among passengers and crew members. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 16 outbreaks of the norovirus on cruise ships in 2012.
''We don't see any spikes downward,'' Mr. Jacob said.
There were last year, however, after the grounding of the Costa Concordia, a ship operated by a subsidiary of Carnival. Thirty-two people died in the episode off the coast of Italy, and Carnival, the world's leading operator of cruises, halted advertising for a time. Bookings dropped, and Carnival and other operators had to cut their rates and offer promotions for cruises last summer.
Other cruise industry watchdogs say the cruise line will try to minimize bad publicity by playing down conditions on board and minimizing safety risks to travelers.
''They're going to go out of their way to be sure people are given what they perceive is a fair deal,'' said Mr. Klein, who recently spoke at a conference in Charleston, where preservationists are trying to stop construction of a new cruise ship terminal near the heart of the 300-year-old city.
However the plight of the Triumph plays out in public opinion, the damage to the bottom line is already substantial: on Wednesday, Carnival estimated that costs including the ship's repair and the cancellation of 14 cruises on it over the next three months would reduce the company's earnings during the first half of 2013 by 8 to 10 cents a share.
And then there is the matter of potential litigation by passengers, although the ability of passengers to sue cruise ship operators is sharply limited, lawyers said.
Tickets issued by Carnival and other companies contain language limiting how much a passenger can recover and also set the location of the court where any lawsuit filed can be filed. The location typically suits the company involved, said Vincent J. Foley, a lawyer in New York who specializes in maritime cases.
In Carnival's case, it is Miami, where the company has its headquarters.
''They select a favorable forum for the cruise line,'' Mr. Foley said.
Maritime law also bars passengers from recovering damages for emotional distress, unless they can show it was caused by a cruise operator's negligence.
Gerald McGill, a plaintiff's lawyer in Pensacola, Fla., who specializes in maritime cases, said it seemed unlikely that passengers on the Triumph would be able to recover damages for distress because they would also have to show physical injury.
''From what I have been seeing, people are not reporting injuries,'' he said.
Undoubtedly, some litigation will rest on the outcome of an investigation into the fire, which started in the engine room last Sunday. The Maritime Authority of the Bahamas will lead the investigation because the ship bears that country's flag. The National Transportation Safety Board, along with the Coast Guard, will also inspect the ship, though a full report may not be issued for months.
Even when it is, it will probably come as little comfort to people like Cindel Peña, 28, who ended up sleeping on the deck except on Wednesday, when it rained and she curled up on the casino floor. Since Monday, there had been no gambling or drinking, and there also had been no showers.
''We are all just beyond disgusting,'' she said by cellphone, planning her flight back to California.
To appease passengers on the Triumph, Carnival initially announced refunds for the trip's cost, traveling expenses and the money spent on board, with exceptions like gift shop purchase and casino charges.
The company also offered passengers credit equal to their ticket price that could be used on future cruises -- a deal some people scoffed at.
''Who is going to want to get back on a cruise?'' said Travis Jackson, who drove from Paris, Tex., on Thursday to pick up his daughter, Karley. She and a group of her colleagues at a Jazzercise studio were on the cruise ship.
Late Thursday night, still awaiting her arrival, Mr. Jackson said he planned to tell her not to take any reimbursement even though a spokesman for Carnival said there would be no waivers or strings attached to the money.
Mr. Jackson and several passengers were not so sure.
''We think it's hush money,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Passengers with makeshift tents on the deck of the Carnival cruise ship Triumph in the Gulf on Mexico on Sunday, a vacation nightmare at sea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KALIN HILL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14)
 After five days adrift, passengers tried to spell out the word ''help'' Thursday aboard the Triumph as the disabled ship was towed to harbor off Mobile Bay, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) MAP (Source: United States Coast Guard, GEBCO) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); TESTIMONY (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (59%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



543 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Bill Eadington, Economist and Gambling Expert, Dies at 67

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Bill Eadington, an economist who was one of the first academics to study gambling, as both a force for economic development and a challenging social problem, died on Monday in Crystal Bay, Nev. He was 67.
The cause was cancer, said his colleague and friend Richard Schuetz.
Professor Eadington first visited Las Vegas in the late 1960s, and the trip began profitably. While his brother-in-law placed bets at a blackjack table at the Aladdin Casino, he stood behind him counting cards. Soon, they had won about $1,000. Professor Eadington, a math whiz, was pursuing his doctorate in economics at the time and briefly considered applying his skills as a professional gambler. Then he started losing -- and he went back to graduate school in California. 
Yet over time, he recalled in 2003, he became ''a different kind of gambling addict.''
Professor Eadington was the longtime director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and Commercial Gaming at the University of Nevada, Reno. When he arrived in Reno in 1969 to join the university's economics faculty, he recalled, he expected to find a library ''filled with scholarly tomes dedicated to the nuances of gambling.'' Few existed.
When he proposed the school's first course on gambling economics in 1972, one of his guest speakers, a Reno casino pioneer, showed up armed and inebriated.
In 1974, Professor Eadington hosted the first National Conference on Gambling and Risk Taking. It drew not only gambling critics and academics but also casino executives. Known within the industry as the Eadington Conference and originally held annually, it has become one of the field's most wide-ranging events, featuring international speakers, business school experts, poker players, anthropologists and advocates for gambling addicts.
''He arrived on campus in 1969 and, for all intents and purposes, invented the field of gambling studies,'' said Bo Bernhard, a sociologist who is executive director of the International Gaming Institute at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. ''As subfields began to emerge, he had a hand in those as well.''
He said Professor Eadington had the academic independence to navigate what might seem like conflicting worlds, doing consulting work for governments in South Africa and South Korea on the economic potential of gambling even as he served on the board of the National Council on Problem Gambling, which gave him a lifetime achievement award last year.
''Everybody went to him because he was the smartest guy,'' Professor Bernhard said. ''And he was completely unafraid of being critical of anyone or anything.''
Professor Eadington argued that groups with differing opinions about gambling would make more progress if they worked together, rather than reactively criticizing one another.
''There is still much heated rhetoric that argues on one hand that commercial gaming is 'nothing more than a modern form of entertainment,' and on the other that it is 'one of the most pernicious evils to be thrust onto an unsuspecting public,' '' he wrote in 2003. ''However, the reality clearly lies between these extreme public relations positions.''
William Richard Eadington was born on Jan. 1, 1946, in Fullerton, Calif., and grew up in nearby Brea. He received bachelor's degrees in mathematics and economics from Santa Clara University and was just 23 when he completed his course work for a doctorate in economics at Claremont Graduate School.
He is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Margaret Dean; a daughter, Diana Eadington-Reed; a son, Michael; and three grandchildren.
In 2011, Professor Eadington was elected to the American Gaming Association's Hall of Fame, a small and eclectic group that includes Wayne Newton, Donald J. Trump and David Copperfield.
He often cited lessons he learned from a Methodist minister, Gordon Moody, who helped establish Gamblers Anonymous in Britain in the 1960s.
''I was struck,'' Professor Eadington once wrote, ''by Gordon's disdain for other members of the cloth who were so judgmental about gambling, but who really had nothing to offer for those who suffered as a result of it, or for the policy makers who had to figure out how to balance the demands of a general public who wanted to gamble with the legitimate concerns about the negative side effects that result from making gambling available to large segments of the population.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GAMING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CASINOS (78%); POKER (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); CANCER (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



544 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Fall More Than Expected

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, raising the prospect that the sluggish labor market recovery may have picked up a bit. 
Initial claims for state jobless benefits dropped 27,000 to a seasonally adjusted 341,000, the Labor Department said on Thursday. The previous week's claims figure was revised to show that 2,000 more applications were received than previously reported.
Last week's drop in claims exceeded economists' expectations for only a 6,000 decline and pushed first-time filings down to the lower end of their range for this year.
''It does seem as if claims are trending down a bit,'' said Sam Coffin, an economist at UBS. ''We think payroll growth will pick up this year, and this sort of gradual downtrend in claims seems consistent with that.''
The data offered more evidence that companies were no longer aggressively laying off workers. However, they appeared to be in no hurry to step up hiring against the backdrop of still lackluster demand.
The economy has struggled to grow much more than 2 percent since the 2007-9 recession ended, and the jobless rate rose 0.1 percentage points to 7.9 percent in January.
Job gains averaged 181,000 a month in 2012, far fewer than the minimum of 250,000 that economists say is needed to reduce the ranks of the unemployed significantly.
Last week, the four-week moving average for new claims, a better measure of labor market trends, rose 1,500, to 352,500. The average had approached a five-year low in the previous week.
The number of people still receiving benefits under regular state programs after an initial week of aid dropped 130,000, to 3.11 million, in the week that ended Feb. 2. That was the lowest level since July 2008 and could be a function of people either finding jobs or exhausting their benefits.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



545 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Health Care's Good News

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL. 
Ezekiel J. Emanuel is an oncologist, former White House adviser, vice provost at the University of Pennsylvania and contributing opinion writer.

 BODY:
THINK about it. When was the last time you heard the phrases "good news" and "health care costs" in the same sentence?
I can't remember either.
Most of the recent talk about health care spending has been pretty bleak. Just take a look at the Rate Review Tool on Healthcare.gov and you'll know why. Major insurers are proposing painful, double-digit premium increases in 2013. In California, Anthem Blue Cross, Blue Shield of California and Aetna all announced rate increases of 20 percent or higher for some of their customers. Many are taking this as a sign that, despite its intentions, the health care reform law is failing and costs are going up as a result.But there is something bigger going on here, though commentators may not be shouting about it. Health care spending is still going up, but the rate at which it grows year to year has actually been declining for about a decade now. 
This is truly a sea change. Look at Medicare: over the last 43 years, costs per beneficiary grew 2.7 percent faster than the overall economy. That's why Medicare spending rose from $7.7 billion in 1970 (or 0.7 percent of gross domestic product) to $551 billion in 2012 (almost 4 percent of G.D.P.). But this trend has finally reversed; over the last three years, Medicare costs per person have grown 1.3 percent slower than growth in the overall economy. In January, a Department of Health and Human Services report showed that Medicare spending per beneficiary grew just 0.4 percent in 2012. And last week, the Congressional Budget Office lowered its 10-year Medicare spending projection by $137 billion, because "health care spending has grown much more slowly" than "historical rates would have indicated."
This slowdown is not limited to Medicare, nor is it simply the result of belt-tightening in the wake of the Great Recession. Since 2004 - nearly four years before the economic downturn - the rate of health care inflation per person has been just 0.8 percent higher than the growth of the G.D.P. Between 1965 and 1993, for comparison, it was 3.2 percent higher.
So if the growth of spending is decelerating, why are premiums increasing? First, the big increases were in relatively small parts of the market, among individual and small-business policies. Second, like everyone else in the health care industry, insurance companies are uncertain about the future, particularly about what will happen to their margins when the new exchanges open in October. The natural response to uncertainty is caution, and for insurance companies, the cautious approach is to increase revenue and profits as much as possible in the short term in case Obamacare lowers them in the long term.
But once the exchanges begin to facilitate competition, this fear should dissipate and premiums should come down.
Regardless, the good news on health care costs shouldn't make us complacent. Despite the slowdown, total Medicare spending is still rising, because more and more baby boomers are becoming eligible for the program every day. The number of beneficiaries is projected to grow 3 percent each year. As a result, total Medicare expenditures are projected to rise to over 4 percent of the G.D.P. by 2023 and to 6.7 percent by 2037. This is a looming threat to the nation's long-term fiscal stability.
So what more can be done? Here is another piece of good news: there are many common sense reforms that should appeal to both Democrats and Republicans.
One example is competitive bidding. Historically, the government has effectively set prices through Medicare for wheelchairs, hospital beds and other medical equipment. But a demonstration project begun in 2011 introduced competitive bidding in roughly 100 metropolitan areas to see if market forces could bring down prices. The results have been dramatic. Prices for oxygen equipment went down 41 percent; wheelchairs, 36 percent; hospital beds, 44 percent; and the cost of diabetic testing equipment, like glucose strips, dropped by a whopping 72 percent. And research has shown no adverse effects on beneficiaries.
The Affordable Care Act will expand competitive bidding for these items to the rest of the country in 2016. But why wait? We should roll it out nationwide next year. And it shouldn't just be for medical equipment. In his last budget, President George W. Bush recommended expanding competitive bidding for blood tests and other lab procedures. It could also work for X-rays, CT scans, pacemakers - for all medical commodities. This would drive health care spending growth closer to the increase in G.D.P.
The moderating of health care spending is fantastic news. But now we just have to work harder. If we can push the rate of growth even lower, we will come close to solving our nation's long-term financial problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%)

COMPANY: BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (83%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



546 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Cambodia Plan Is Big, but Vague

BYLINE: By ANDREW R. C. MARSHALL and PRAK CHAN THUL | REUTERS

 BODY:
ROVIENG, CAMBODIA -- The remote district of Rovieng was once a battleground between Cambodian government troops and Pol Pot's genocidal Khmer Rouge. There are still unexploded bombs in the fields and forests.
But there is also something more desirable: iron ore. And two Chinese companies have an $11 billion plan to extract it.
Their proposal -- which calls for construction of a steel plant and seaport to be linked by a new 400-kilometer, or 250-mile, railroad -- has alarmed environmentalists, perplexed mining and transportation experts and bolstered Cambodia's reputation as an agent for Chinese expansionism in a region where the United States is increasingly competing for influence.
The Rovieng plan is the latest in a series of large projects that underscore China's growing economic clout in Southeast Asia, while at the same time improving China's access to ports and supplies of raw materials in the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. 
Work will soon begin on a $7 billion railroad through Laos to link Yunnan Province in southwest China with northeast Thailand. In Myanmar, work is almost finished on a $3 billion twin pipeline project to carry oil and natural gas to Yunnan from the Bay of Bengal.
The railroad, port and steel plant project in Cambodia will be the country's largest, with a price tag not far from the $12.9 billion value of its annual gross domestic product. The steel plant in Rovieng, in northern Cambodia, will be the country's first. The seaport, on an island in the Gulf of Thailand, will be connected to the mainland by a three-kilometer bridge. The railroad will cross a large part of Cambodia, although its exact route has not been disclosed.
''This is 65 percent iron,'' said Sun Qicai, caressing a heavy, gleaming lump of Rovieng rock. ''Not many places have such high-quality ore.'' That includes China, the world's largest steel maker, where most ore has an iron content of less than 40 percent.
Mr. Sun is a Chinese site manager for Cambodia Iron & Steel Mining Industry Group, a Chinese company based in Phnom Penh that on Dec. 31 signed a deal to build the three-part project with China Major Bridge Engineering, a subsidiary of China Railway Group, a state-owned behemoth.
The iron ore is destined for the steel plant -- by law, ore cannot be exported from Cambodia. Mining experts would not hazard a guess on how much ore is recoverable in Rovieng and there was no indication of how much steel it would produce and where the products would go.
Those are just some of the unanswered questions about the project.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Zhang Chuanyou, the general manager of Cambodia Iron & Steel, said work would begin in July and be finished within four years. But Tram Iv Tek, the Cambodian transportation minister, who also attended the ceremony, professed to know almost nothing about the project. The conspicuous absence of the authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, from the ceremony also left many wondering whether the plan was going anywhere.
''There are a lot of real things happening here with Chinese money,'' said Daniel Mitchell, an American who runs the Phnom Penh investment firm SRP International. ''I don't think this railroad is one of them.''
Mining experts question whether northern Cambodia has enough mineral wealth to justify the project's costs. Transportation experts wonder why the Chinese-built railroad would not connect with Cambodia's existing train system, which is being refurbished at a cost of $141.6 million, or link with either of the country's two established ports.
The ambitious project could be as much strategic as economic. Chinese investment pledged in Cambodia has totaled $9.1 billion since 1994, including almost $1.2 billion in 2011 -- eight times as much as was pledged from the United States, according to the Cambodia Investment Board. China is also Cambodia's largest aid donor.
That money carries political clout. Last year, Cambodia used its powers as leader of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, to stifle discussion on the South China Sea, where Chinese territorial claims overlap those of five other countries.
The lesson for Washington was clear.
''For U.S. strategists, if you neglect certain Asean countries, you hurt U.S. interests,'' said the American scholar Carlyle Thayer, an Asia-Pacific security expert at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra. ''There's a price to pay,'' he added, ''because China's economic dominance carries political influence, the U.S. has to compete across the board.''
Cambodia Iron & Steel looks neither like a billion-dollar company nor, as reports in the Chinese news media describe it, a Cambodian one.
It is registered to three Chinese nationals who, according to Mr. Sun, the Rovieng site manager, are brothers. The only Cambodian found working at its Phnom Penh headquarters, a five-story building flanked by a paint shop and a Korean restaurant, was the cleaner.
There was some evidence suggesting that Cambodia Iron & Steel was moving ahead with its project and that Cambodian officials knew more than they publicly stated.
On July 15 last year, telecommunications and electricity officials were summoned to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport to explain to a Chinese representative from Cambodia Iron & Steel where the country's fiber-optic and electrical cables were buried.
''He wanted to know so that the train track didn't cut through them,'' said one Cambodian employee who attended the meeting and was not authorized to talk to the media.
An official at the company's Shanghai-based partner, China Major Bridge Engineering, said it would begin construction this year but gave no specific date.
In Myanmar, where a quasi-civilian government replaced a military dictatorship in March 2011, large Chinese projects have been catalysts for protest. China armed and supported Myanmar's military regime during decades of Western sanctions and is still resented by many people there because of this.
Li Junhua, the Chinese ambassador to Myanmar, has promised greater transparency from Chinese companies doing business in the country.
In Cambodia, however, Chinese companies remain tight-lipped and closely allied with an authoritarian government that jailed record numbers of land-rights activists last year .
In one token of their close collaboration with the government, Chinese projects in Cambodia are often guarded by soldiers or military police. Chinese workers often dress in military fatigues.
No sign marks the entrance to Cambodia Iron & Steel's large site near the village of Rovieng, only a ramshackle house occupied by armed Cambodian soldiers who initially stopped reporters from entering.
''I'm scared the Chinese will get angry,'' one soldier said.
Som Soeun, a community leader, was among hundreds of villagers who attended a 2011 ceremony in Rovieng to announce the building of the steel plant. Also present was Suy Sem, the Cambodian minister of mines and energy, who told villagers not to protest against a plant ''needed for the country's development,'' Mr. Som Soeun recalled.
With the help of local people, Reuters reporters entered the Cambodia Iron & Steel site and found no sign of construction. Trucks and other heavy machinery were idle. Lumps of iron ore littered the deserted access roads.
The Cambodia Iron & Steel depot in the village occupies what used to be community ground: the local soccer field. The depot also was dormant. A villager who had befriended its few Chinese workers said they had complained of being broke, bored and homesick.
The prospect of a railroad's cutting a swath through homes and land is unsettling, Mr. Som Soeun said. So is the continued silence from government and company officials.
''I am worrying every day now,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); MINES & MINING (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (72%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%)

COMPANY: CHINA RAILWAY GROUP LTD (57%)

TICKER: 0390 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (57%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (73%) CAMBODIA (99%); CHINA (97%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



547 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EURO WATCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Slump in Euro Zone Economies Expands to France and Germany

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Steven Erlanger contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
European economies shrank in the fourth quarter at their fastest rate since the depth of the financial crisis in 2009, new data showed on Thursday, with both strong and weak countries falling short of expectations and raising anxieties of a longer, deeper recession.
Germany and France are now caught up in a slump that was already well under way in other big euro zone economies like Spain and Italy. 
The figures were a reminder of how hard it has become for many of the world's most economically developed countries to overcome their debt problems and return to growth. Even the United States, which had appeared to be rebounding, surprised economists late last month by reporting contraction for the fourth quarter.
In the euro zone, economic output shrank 0.6 percent from October through December, compared with the previous quarter, according to official figures published on Thursday. That came after a decline of 0.1 percent in the third quarter.
While economists had expected a decline in the fourth quarter, they did not expect it to be quite so big. The disappointing data called into question the timing of a recovery that was supposed to begin later this year. And the figures put pressure on government budgets that are already stretched because tax revenue automatically falls when companies and workers are earning less.
Almost every one of the euro zone's 17 members suffered a drop in gross domestic product. In the three biggest euro economies, G.D.P. fell 0.6 percent in Germany, 0.3 percent in France and 0.9 percent in Italy.
For France, especially, Thursday's data was a deep embarrassment to the government. The Socialist president, François Hollande, was elected last May after pledging to reduce the budget deficit this year to 3 percent of G.D.P., as required under euro zone rules. And his finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, had promised numerous times since then that the government would meet the 3 percent limit this year. But the lack of growth will make it all but impossible to meet that goal.
The gloomy economic data could also influence the outcome of elections later this month in Italy, in which the country's international credibility is at stake. The prolonged slump provides ammunition to populist forces led by former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, perhaps giving his party enough seats in Parliament to block unpopular measures intended to improve the country's economic performance.
The economic report by Eurostat, the European Union's statistics agency, was not bad enough to kill all hope that the euro zone was on the mend and that it could see weak growth later in the year.
Industrial production for the bloc rose in December, and surveys have suggested that businesses and consumers were becoming more willing to spend because they were less afraid that the euro zone would break up under the stress of debt and banking crises.
''I think the euro zone looks a lot more stable,'' said Marie Diron, an economist in London who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young. ''There are surely companies in Germany and Finland which couldn't really take the investment and equipment decisions they wanted to,'' because of fears of a breakup. ''Now that has disappeared.''
But Ms. Diron noted that unemployment remained high in many countries, creating political instability that was amplified by governments' need to cut spending. ''That's really where the risk remains,'' she said.
The deepest misery is still in Greece, even if fewer people are predicting that the country will have to leave the euro zone. Unemployment rose to a record 27 percent in November, the Greek Statistics Agency said on Thursday. Nearly two-thirds of young people are jobless.
The French economy has been suffering from a drop in industrial production, as large employers like the carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroën struggle to cope with plunging demand in their most important markets, including Spain, where growth last quarter fell 0.7 percent.
This week, the French government auditors, the Cour des Comptes, announced that French growth would be significantly below the 0.8 percent previously estimated by the Hollande government, making it practically impossible to keep the deficit below the goal of 3 percent of G.D.P. despite significant tax increases. The Thursday figures, showing a contraction of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter and no growth at all in 2012, were even worse than expected.
The auditors recommended balancing the tax increases with more cuts in public spending, but the Hollande government has said that it wants to impose taxes up front and deal with more significant spending cuts in coming years. Some economists contend that France is taxing itself into a recession.
Mr. Hollande, who has argued for measures to promote economic growth as unemployment rises, acknowledged failure, telling reporters earlier this week, ''There is no point sticking to objectives if they are not going to be achieved.''
Mr. Moscovici said after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday that the government did not want ''to add austerity on top of austerity, either for France or for Europe.''
Among all 27 members of the European Union, including countries like Britain and the Czech Republic that are not part of the euro currency union, economic output fell 0.5 percent.
In Germany, the unexpectedly large decline in output was caused by lower exports and fewer purchases of equipment by companies.
During the first nine months of last year, Germany continued to defy the recession in the euro zone as a whole, benefiting from sales to countries outside the euro zone, especially the United States and China. But the decline in the fourth quarter illustrated Germany's vulnerability to the fortunes of its neighbors.
In coming weeks, economists will be watching for evidence that the German economy has already begun growing again, as many predict. If so, that could help pull the rest of Europe out of recession.
''While we expect a stabilization in the first quarter and a weak recovery from the second quarter onwards,'' Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Bank, said in a note to clients, ''one has to acknowledge that a lot of things still can go wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fourth-quarter data showed European economies shrank more than expected. Above, university students in Greece, the nation hardest hit by fiscal crises, demonstrated on Friday against austerity measures. At left, a turbine factory in Aurich, Germany, a nation no longer insulated against its neighbors' financial woes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELOS TZORTZINIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 SEAN GALLUP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



548 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: European Regulators Defend Tax on Stock and Bond Transactions

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European regulators on Thursday defended plans to create the first international tax on financial transactions after business groups in the United States warned that the levy could break international agreements.
The plan, also known as a Robin Hood tax, aims to redistribute money generated by the finance industry and could raise up to 35 billion euros ($47 billion) a year for 11 participating countries, which include Germany and France.
The European authorities have promoted the rules as a way of penalizing the financial sector and returning some of the money that was spent on bank bailouts to citizens squeezed by austerity and the economic slowdown. 
But the law is raising concerns in the United States and in European countries like Britain and Luxembourg that are not participating because the rules could increase the cost of transactions that involve institutions inside the taxed zone.
This week, the United States Chamber of Commerce and four powerful financial services associations warned Algirdas Semeta, the European commissioner who is drafting the rules, that he was proposing ''novel and unilateral theories of tax jurisdiction'' that were ''both unprecedented and inconsistent with existing norms of international tax law and longstanding treaty commitments.''
In a letter to Mr. Semeta, the groups said ''many transactions occurring within the United States that have no direct connection to Europe'' would be subject to the tax.
A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department said in an e-mail that officials had raised concerns about the rules with their European counterparts.
She said the Treasury did ''not support the proposed European financial transaction tax, because it would harm U.S. investors in the United States and elsewhere who have purchased affected securities.''
Mr. Semeta said at a news conference on Thursday that the criticism was unfounded and that the rules were ''fully compliant with international tax law'' and based on principles ''widely used in international taxation practice.''
The tax would create a significant new source of income amounting to about 1 percent of the participating countries' tax revenue without placing a further burden on ordinary citizens, according to European officials.
The levy would be based on a tax of 0.1 percent of the value of stocks and bonds traded, and 0.01 percent of the value of derivatives trades. That could mean revenue of about 100 million euros each year for small countries like Estonia and up to 10 billion euros each year for the largest participant, Germany, the officials said.
The officials said the law had been formulated so it did not prompt traders to greatly reduce their activities within the taxed countries or move away entirely. In addition, they said any negative effect on growth and jobs in participating countries would probably be canceled out by the recycling of the revenue back into the economy through projects like building infrastructure.
But Alexandria Carr, a lawyer in London at Mayer Brown, said it was still possible that ''we'll see banks and businesses trying to challenge the rules, or even see them and governments in countries like Britain and Luxembourg outside the taxed zone take legal action at the European Court of Justice to narrow the scope of the law.''
The 11 participating European states -- two more than the minimum required for legislation to be drafted -- still need to give their unanimous approval before the law goes into force, possibly at the beginning of next year, making it likely that lobbying against the tax could continue for months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EURO (89%); BONDS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); BANK FAILURES (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (91%); ESTONIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



549 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Technology, Trade and Fewer Jobs

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- President Barack Obama's State of the Union speech this week confirmed it: The pre-eminent political and economic challenge in the industrialized democracies is how to make capitalism work for the middle class.
There is nothing mysterious about that. The most important fact about the United States in this century is that middle-class incomes are stagnating. The financial crisis has revealed an equally stark structural problem in much of Europe. 
Even in a relatively prosperous age -- for all of today's woes, we have left behind the dark, satanic mills and workhouses of the 19th century -- this decline of the middle class is more than an economic issue. It is also a political one. The main point of democracy is to deliver positive results for the majority.
All of which is why understanding what is happening to the middle class is urgently important. There is no better place to start than by talking to David Autor, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Autor is one of the leading students of the most striking trend bedeviling the middle class: the polarization of the job market. That is a nice way of saying the economy is being cleaved into high-paying jobs at the top and low-paying jobs at the bottom, while the middle-skill and middle-wage jobs that used to form society's backbone are being hollowed out.
But when I asked him this week what had gone wrong for the U.S. middle class, he gave a different answer: ''The main problem is we've just had a decade of incredibly anemic employment growth. All of a sudden, around 2000 and 2001, things just slowed down.''
Academics can usually be counted on to have a confident explanation for everything. That is why I was surprised and impressed by Mr. Autor's answer when I asked him where the jobs had gone. ''No one really understands why that is the case,'' he said.
It was a winningly modest reply. But work by Mr. Autor and two colleagues -- David Dorn, a visiting professor at Harvard, and Gordon Hanson of the University of California, San Diego -- is starting to untangle the two forces that both the conventional wisdom and the academy agree are probably responsible for a lot of what is happening to the middle class.
Those forces are technological change and trade. The easy assumption is that the two go together. After all, trade needs technology -- it is hard to imagine outsourcing without the Internet, sophisticated logistics systems and jet travel. Technology is dependent on trade, too: The opportunity for global scale is one reason technological innovation has yielded such outsize rewards.
But in a careful study of local labor markets in the United States, Mr. Autor, Mr. Dorn and Mr. Hanson have found that trade and technology had very different consequences for jobs.
''We were surprised at how distinct the two were,'' Mr. Autor said. ''We found that the trade shock had a very measurable impact on the employment rate. Technology led to job polarization, but its employment effect was minimal.'' Trade, at least in the short term, really did ship jobs overseas. Technology did not kill jobs per se, but it did hollow out those essential jobs in the middle.
The big surprise, at least for believers (like me) in the classic liberal economic view that trade benefits both parties, is the strong and negative impact of globalization on U.S. workers -- Mr. Autor estimates it accounts for 15 to 20 percent of jobs lost.
''The rise of China was such a huge change. It really did matter,'' Mr. Autor said. ''First, China is such a huge country. Two, China was 40 or 50 years behind in technology, so it had a lot of catching up to do. Third, it happened so fast.''
What is striking, and frightening, is the extent to which, at least in the U.S.-China trade relationship, the knee-jerk, populist fears intellectuals tend to deride actually turned out to be true.
''U.S.-China trade is almost a one-way street. This trade relationship doesn't clearly give you the benefit that you can sell a lot of stuff to your trade partner,'' Mr. Dorn said. ''If you talk to someone who is somehow involved in the promotion of free trade, they may say that maybe the headquarters of Apple benefits. That may be true. But the first-order effect is of job loss.''
The impact of technology is more familiar. Mr. Autor, Mr. Dorn and Mr. Hanson found that it did not create fewer jobs overall, but it did hollow out the jobs in the middle.
''Technology has really changed the distribution of occupation. That doesn't necessarily go hand in hand with reduced unemployment, but it creates a more bimodal set of opportunities,'' Mr. Autor said. ''There is an abundance of work to do in food service and there is an abundance of work in finance, but there are fewer middle-wage, middle-income jobs.''
What is challenging about both of these trends, and what makes the hollowing out of the middle class a political problem as well as an economic one, is how different they look depending on whether you own a company or work for one.
Shipping middle-class jobs to China, or hollowing them out with machines, is a win for smart managers and their shareholders. We call the result higher productivity. But looked at through the lens of middle-class jobs, it is a loss. That profound difference is why politics in the rich democracies are so polarized right now. Capitalism and democracy are at cross-purposes, and no one yet has a clear plan for reconciling them.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); OUTSOURCING (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



550 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Rubio And The Zombies

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The State of the Union address was not, I'm sorry to say, very interesting. True, the president offered many good ideas. But we already know that almost none of those ideas will make it past a hostile House of Representatives.
On the other hand, the G.O.P. reply, delivered by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, was both interesting and revelatory. And I mean that in the worst way. For Mr. Rubio is a rising star, to such an extent that Time magazine put him on its cover, calling him ''The Republican Savior.'' What we learned Tuesday, however, was that zombie economic ideas have eaten his brain. 
In case you're wondering, a zombie idea is a proposition that has been thoroughly refuted by analysis and evidence, and should be dead -- but won't stay dead because it serves a political purpose, appeals to prejudices, or both. The classic zombie idea in U.S. political discourse is the notion that tax cuts for the wealthy pay for themselves, but there are many more. And, as I said, when it comes to economics it appears that Mr. Rubio's mind is zombie-infested.
Start with the big question: How did we get into the mess we're in?
The financial crisis of 2008 and its painful aftermath, which we're still dealing with, were a huge slap in the face for free-market fundamentalists. Circa 2005, the usual suspects -- conservative publications, analysts at right-wing think tanks like the American Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute, and so on -- insisted that deregulated financial markets were doing just fine, and dismissed warnings about a housing bubble as liberal whining. Then the nonexistent bubble burst, and the financial system proved dangerously fragile; only huge government bailouts prevented a total collapse.
Instead of learning from this experience, however, many on the right have chosen to rewrite history. Back then, they thought things were great, and their only complaint was that the government was getting in the way of even more mortgage lending; now they claim that government policies, somehow dictated by liberals even though the G.O.P. controlled both Congress and the White House, were promoting excessive borrowing and causing all the problems.
Every piece of this revisionist history has been refuted in detail. No, the government didn't force banks to lend to Those People; no, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac didn't cause the housing bubble (they were doing relatively little lending during the peak bubble years); no, government-sponsored lenders weren't responsible for the surge in risky mortgages (private mortgage issuers accounted for the vast majority of the riskiest loans).
But the zombie keeps shambling on -- and here's Mr. Rubio Tuesday night: ''This idea -- that our problems were caused by a government that was too small -- it's just not true. In fact, a major cause of our recent downturn was a housing crisis created by reckless government policies.'' Yep, it's the full zombie.
What about responding to the crisis? Four years ago, right-wing economic analysts insisted that deficit spending would destroy jobs, because government borrowing would divert funds that would otherwise have gone into business investment, and also insisted that this borrowing would send interest rates soaring. The right thing, they claimed, was to balance the budget, even in a depressed economy.
Now, this argument was obviously fallacious from the beginning. As people like me tried to point out, the whole reason our economy was depressed was that businesses weren't willing to invest as much as consumers were trying to save. So government borrowing would not, in fact, drive up interest rates -- and trying to balance the budget would simply deepen the depression.
Sure enough, interest rates, far from soaring, are at historic lows -- and countries that slashed spending have also seen sharp job losses. You rarely get this clear a test of competing economic ideas, and the right's ideas failed.
But the zombie still shambles on. And here's Mr. Rubio: ''Every dollar our government borrows is money that isn't being invested to create jobs. And the uncertainty created by the debt is one reason why many businesses aren't hiring.'' Zombies 2, Reality 0.
In fairness to Mr. Rubio, what he's saying isn't any different from what everyone else in his party is saying. But that, of course, is what's so scary.
For here we are, more than five years into the worst economic slump since the Great Depression, and one of our two great political parties has seen its economic doctrine crash and burn twice: first in the run-up to crisis, then again in the aftermath. Yet that party has learned nothing; it apparently believes that all will be well if it just keeps repeating the old slogans, but louder.
It's a disturbing picture, and one that bodes ill for our nation's future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); TAX LAW (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



551 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Shares Are Steady Despite New Worries About Europe

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks were steady on Thursday as renewed worries about Europe overshadowed an encouraging report on jobs in the United States.
Germany's economy, the largest in Europe, shrank more than expected late last year, and the slowdown deepened the region's ongoing recession. The report was a troubling sign for the United States because sales to Europe have been a boon for American companies. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.52 points to close at 13,973.39.
After a strong start, the stock market has been steady over the last week with few major events to sway investors. That calm could disappear soon, Doug Cote, the chief market strategist at ING Investment Management, said Thursday.
With recessions in Europe and Japan and weak growth in the United States, he is bracing for some turbulence. ''Everybody is too complacent,'' Mr. Cote said.
Cisco Systems, the world's largest maker of computer networking equipment, reported earnings late Wednesday that surpassed Wall Street's expectations, but the company predicted sales growth that was weaker than previous estimates and its stock fell 15 cents, or 1 percent, to $20.99 a share.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 1.05 points to 1,521.38. The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.78 points to 3,198.66.
The S.& P. 500 index has climbed 1.6 percent this month and has gained 6.7 percent for the year.
The number of people applying for unemployment benefits fell to 341,000 last week, the lowest level in three weeks, according to the Labor Department. Besides a few weeks last month that were affected by seasonal trends, that is the lowest level in nearly five years.
Among deals announced Thursday, American Airlines and US Airways agreed to merge, creating the country's largest airline. Warren E. Buffett and 3G Capital, a private equity firm, also plan to buy the food maker H. J. Heinz for $23 billion. US Airways sank 67 cents to $13.99, while H. J. Heinz rose $12.02 to $72.50.
Constellation Brands was up 37 percent, the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500, after reaching a deal with Anheuser-Busch InBev. InBev agreed to sell a brewery in Mexico and rights for Corona and Modelo beer in the United States to Constellation for $2.9 billion. Constellation Brands gained $11.87 to $43.75 a share.
In the market for United States Treasury debt, the yield on the 10-year Treasury slipped to 1.99 percent, down from 2.03 percent late Wednesday.
The 10-year Treasury yield, used to set a variety of borrowing rates, began the year around 1.70 percent and has climbed steadily since then. As worries about a recession ease, traders have shifted money out of the Treasury market, driving yields up.
Whole Foods Market, the grocery chain, slumped 10 percent after trimming its forecasts for sales and earnings this year as a result of its plans to open more stores and put more lower-priced goods on its shelves. Whole Foods lost $9.40 to $87.50.
General Motors fell 3 percent after saying it made money in North America and Asia and nearly doubled last year's fourth-quarter profit.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); AIRLINES (68%); BEER & ALE (68%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); BREWERIES (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (53%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (81%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); ING GROEP NV (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); H J HEINZ CO (53%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (53%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (53%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (50%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (81%); ABI (BRU) (81%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); HNZ (NYSE) (53%); STZ (NYSE) (53%); WFM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (81%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (53%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (53%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (53%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (53%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



552 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Britain Says Equine Drug May Be in Food Chain

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY and STEPHEN CASTLE; Dan Bilefsky reported from Paris, and Stephen Castle from London. Reporting was contributed by George Calin from Bucharest, Romania; Andrew Higgins from Brussels; Douglas Dalby from Dublin; and Melissa Eddy from Berlin.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The scandal over horse meat in the European food chain widened Thursday from a case of mislabeling to one of food safety as public health authorities in Britain said that a powerful equine painkiller, potentially harmful to human health, ''may have entered the food chain'' in France.
British officials sought to reassure the public that the drug -- phenylbutazone, or bute, an anti-inflammatory used commonly on lame horses -- was found only in trace amounts in a small number of British horse carcasses. Out of 206 carcasses, 8 tested positive for bute, and just 6 of those carcasses were exported to France. 
The drug is also used to treat arthritis in humans. Very large doses can cause a potentially fatal blood disorder, aplastic anemia, in which the bone marrow fails to produce enough blood cells.
Even before the discovery, the scandal had plunged the European food industry into crisis. Frozen foods, including hamburger, lasagna, spaghetti Bolognese and moussaka, have been withdrawn from supermarket freezers in Britain, Ireland, Sweden, France and Germany.
But the positive tests for the equine drug have raised new concerns, even in countries like France, where eating horse meat is more acceptable than in Britain, where it is taboo. Unlike cattle, which are raised for slaughter in controlled conditions, the lame horses or former plow animals that are sometimes killed for consumption do not carry the same guarantees of origin or quality.
''Unscrupulous criminal elements have been profiting from these unfortunate animals by exploiting a hopelessly flawed horse passport scheme, lax animal export controls at ports, and slaughterhouses willing to compromise animal welfare and public safety for a quick profit,'' said David Wilson, the spokesman for the Ulster Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in Northern Ireland. The discovery of suspect frozen beef hamburgers in Ireland set off the crisis.
''Many horses that are either valueless or in suffering are being corralled in remote farmyards and packed into vehicles for transport to abattoirs in Ireland and the U.K.,'' he said. ''After slaughter, many are processed and find their way effortlessly into the European food chain.''
Health experts said that a human would have to eat 500 or 600 burgers a day of 100 percent horse meat to be adversely affected by the drug at the level found in the carcasses.
The police investigating allegations that horse meat was mislabeled as beef said Thursday that they had arrested two men in Wales and another man in West Yorkshire, England, on Tuesday and were holding them on suspicion of fraud.
Checking food safety ''from farm to fork'' in Europe has been a persistent worry for two decades, since the crisis of mad cow disease in Britain threw the Continent into a crisis and prompted a ban on British beef exports to Europe and the United States.
The current scandal has laid bare a supply chain for meat so murky and complex that officials and experts say it is easily susceptible to fraud and manipulation by organized crime. The convoluted route from slaughterhouse to plate has highlighted a weak system of accountability in a vast single market of almost 500 million people, where retailers use layers of meat traders to find the cheapest deals and no regular tests are conducted to authenticate meat products.
''In a cash-rich business like the meat industry, there is ample opportunity for criminals to bribe bureaucrats,'' said Misha Glenny, an expert on organized crime in Europe. ''Market opportunities create criminal opportunities.''
After days of investigation, the French authorities announced on Thursday that they suspected fraud at a French company, Spanghero, which supplied meat -- including large quantities of horse meat -- to Comigel, a French-owned company whose Luxembourg factory used the meat to make frozen meals sold in supermarkets in 16 countries across Europe, including Britain and Sweden. They said they would suspend Spanghero's operating license. The company denied any wrongdoing.
The French investigators said that the meat Spanghero sold to Comigel had originated in two Romanian slaughterhouses, in a shipment that they said showed signs of containing horse meat. It was then bought by a Dutch food trader who sold it to a Cypriot-registered food trader who sent it to Spanghero.
''The investigation shows that Spanghero knew that the meat labeled as beef could be horse,'' Benoît Hamon, France's junior minister for social economy, said Thursday. ''There was a strong suspicion.'' Mr. Hamon added that the fraudulent meat sales had been going on for several months, and involved 28 companies and 13 countries.
Mr. Hamon said that Comigel should have suspected something was amiss. While Comigel maintained it did not realize the meat was not beef, he said, anyone in the business should have been able to tell the difference.
In a statement, Spanghero said it was the victim, not the perpetrator, of the fraud. ''Spanghero confirms having placed an order for beef, having been led to believe it received beef, and having sold back what it thought was beef, properly labeled as such, in line with European and French regulations.''
Chris Elliott, director of the Institute for Global Food Security at Queen's University, Belfast, said the complex supply chain was vulnerable to fraud since the contents of meat shipments were not routinely verified.
''There are multiple contracts in these supply chains, and the contracts are very tight,'' he said. ''But there are absolutely no checks. It is really done on trust that the piece of paper that says that you have five tons of beef is beef. There is no verification of the audit trail.''
Spanghero said earlier that it would sue its Romanian suppliers, though French authorities say those suppliers acted in good faith and properly labeled their shipment as horse meat.
''We have respected all of the labeling laws,'' Iulian Cazacut, the director of the meatpacking plant, Doly-Com, in Romania's impoverished northeast, said in an interview. ''I am not responsible for the mistakes of others.''
Mr. Cazacut said the company, which processed 427 tons of horse last year, bought horses, no longer fit for work, from local farmers for around 60 cents a pound, far less than the approximately $2.50 a pound fetched by beef.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benoît Hamon, France's junior minister for social economy, right, on Thursday in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACKY NAEGELEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERINARY DRUGS (90%); HORSE MEAT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD MISLABELING (90%); HORSES (90%); FROZEN FOODS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); BEEF (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); MEATS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); ANALGESICS (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (77%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (76%); ARTHRITIS (76%); ANEMIA (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); BLOOD DISORDERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); FRANCE (96%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



553 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: After Strong I.P.O., Russia's Main Stock Exchange Begins Trading

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW - Russia's main stock exchange has garnered enough investor interest for an initial public offering, another milestone in the country's capitalist evolution.
The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, for the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, is scheduled to begin trading Friday in Moscow on its own trading platform. 
The stock will price near the bottom of the expected range, valuing the company at slightly more than $4 billion, a financial industry official briefed on the plan said Thursday evening.
The listing drew interest from specialized investors in financial services companies and institutional investors in the United States and Europe, the official said. Micex has also benefited from the publicity of mergers and acquisitions in the stock exchange business worldwide, including the announced sale of the New York Stock Exchange.
The seesaw fortunes of the Russian companies that list on Micex have made it one of the world's most volatile markets. From its inception in 1992 until the start of the 2008 recession, the Russian stock market had been in either the top five performing markets in the world or the bottom five in every year except one.
The company managing the exchange, though, has made an argument that it is a far safer bet than the companies it lists because it earns fees on both long and short trades and from foreign currency deals, its original niche.
The Russian central bank founded Micex as a market for trading rubles into foreign currency legally, something that had been tightly regulated in the past. That was the best thing that ever happened to early post-Soviet financiers, who knew which way that bet would go and made easy fortunes on Micex.
The exchange evolved to trade stocks when they appeared in Russia in the early 1990s and presided over the panic selling of state bonds in the 1998 default. By 2011, it had become the dominant exchange after merging with a rival, the Russian Trading System. The main product of the Russian Trading System was a dollar-denominated derivative of an index fund for the Russian market, used primarily to short the entire country's economy, a position sometimes used as a hedge by nervous companies making other investments. Last year, this product accounted for 34 percent of all derivatives trades on Micex.
Other revenue streams are interest income from obligatory deposits that brokerage firms place with the exchange to trade, fees charged to issuing companies and data sales.
The central bank will remain the largest shareholder after the issue of 10 to 15 percent of the shares. The organizing banks are expected to announce the size of the float on Friday.
Mattias Westman, founder of Prosperity Capital Management, the largest foreign portfolio investor in Russia, which manages $4.5 billion in stocks and other assets, many of which are traded on Micex, said owning shares in the stock exchange was also a way to bet on the strengthening domestic financial system.
Micex's offering, he said, "is a symptom of the whole market maturing," 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union.
Bruce Bower, portfolio manager at Verno Capital, a Russia-focused fund, said the exchange's mix of offerings for investors wanting either long or short positions, its interest earnings and its fees for currency exchange made it a relatively safe stock as "the financial utility for Russia."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INDEX FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



554 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; WEEKEND MISER; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: 'Detropia' and Sword Dancing

BYLINE: By A. C. LEE

 BODY:
Many see Detroit as a supreme symbol of the Rust Belt, to which the recession delivered a merciless coup de grâce, but if there's an American city whose cultural contributions are more underrated, the Miser would love to know about it. 
Detroit's robust unions shaped the very idea of an American middle class; figures as diverse as Henry Ford, Reinhold Niebuhr and Berry Gordy began their world-changing careers there. A case for Detroit's musical superiority alone could be made: on the heels of Mr. Gordy's Motown empire, the area has contributed the punk pioneers MC5, the techno titans Belleville Three and the current stars Jack White and Eminem.
How can such a fertile city lie so fallow, limping along as a place where residents strip copper from live telephone wires to sell as scrap metal? This weekend at the Maysles Institute in Harlem, New Yorkers can catch a screening of ''Detropia,'' a 2012 documentary about Detroit's decline and its future prospects that Jeannette Catsoulis described in her review in The New York Times as a ''visual caress of postindustrial blight.''
Through the eyes of residents and stories of some of the city's hardest-hit communities, the directors Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady capture the frustration, and also the flame of hope, animating Detroit's citizens. (Their 2006 documentary, ''Jesus Camp,'' received an Oscar nomination.)
Admission is a suggested $10 donation, and the Saturday screening will be followed by a discussion with the filmmakers.
(Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; 343 Lenox Avenue, between 127th and 128th Streets, Harlem; (212) 537-6843, mayslesinstitute.org.)
LIVE BY THE SWORD, DANCE BY THE SWORD
If a whiff of Monty Python attends the mention of English sword dancing, let the Miser assure you: the women who make up Half Moon Sword are dead serious about their art. And judging by the ground they plan to cover this weekend, as the group presents the 28th annual New York Sword Dance Festival, New Yorkers should have ample chances to discover the difference between ''mystical'' long sword and ''vigorous'' rapper sword dances.
Twelve teams, from places like Baltimore; Minneapolis; and Berea, Ky., will fan out across New York. Saturday's performances are concentrated in Manhattan, from the 115th Street Library uptown to Pier 17 at the South Street Seaport. On Sunday there will be shows at three locations in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and at the Brooklyn Museum.
A detailed schedule is at HalfMoonSword.org. Performances are free, although there is an admission fee at the museums hosting some of them.
(Saturday, starting at 9:30 a.m., at various locations in Manhattan; Sunday, starting at 12:30 p.m., at locations around Brooklyn; halfmoonsword.org.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Half Moon Sword performing a long sword dance, which concludes with swords woven together in a lock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY BARY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DANCE (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); RAP MUSIC (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



555 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: One Step Toward Rethinking Taxes

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Tax reform, at least in American politics these days, is generally discussed at only the most abstract level. There is general agreement that it would be nice to lower tax rates while broadening the base by getting rid of loopholes. The latter, of course, are seldom specified in any detail, and are very much in the eye of the beholder.
If real tax change is ever to be adopted, we are going to have to be specific on small things as well as large.
Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, has taken an impressive step in that direction with a proposal to make substantial changes in the taxation of financial instruments. 
Mr. Camp's proposal got relatively little attention in the media, although it has set off alarm bells in some Wall Street precincts, where it threatens to dismantle some cherished ways that Wall Street has invented to allow banks to profit by taking a cut of tax benefits they offer to customers.
''Congressman Camp's proposal reflects his efforts to respond to the changing realities of modern financial markets,'' said Mark Price, who leads the financial institutions and products group at KPMG's Washington national tax practice.
Studying Mr. Camp's proposal is not always easy sledding. This is an area of law that has grown exceedingly complicated, in large part because each change in the law is greeted by new tax avoidance tactics and strategies, which eventually lead to new provisions that combat those but may open the way to still more maneuvers. And on and on. Many innovations in finance accomplish nothing for the overall economy, but instead are aimed solely at gaming either tax or regulatory rules.
Lobbyists for one part of the financial services industry or another have gotten provisions passed to benefit their products over those of competitors, leading to demands by competitors for equal treatment.
It would be nice to report that the chairman has found a magic way to end these games, but he has not. Some on Wall Street are already talking about ways that some of his proposals, if enacted, could be abused.
Mr. Camp understands that and has called his proposal a ''discussion draft,'' one that is aimed at getting comments from those who would be affected.
He will get plenty of them.
One principle that the Camp proposal would establish is to provide what the congressman calls ''uniform tax treatment of financial derivatives.'' The definition of derivative is very wise -- it includes short sales of stock as well as options, swaps and futures.
Under the Camp proposal, a derivative could create only ordinary gains or losses no matter how long it was held. And changes in value would be subject to tax every year, as the market price changed, whether or not the investor sold. There could never be a long-term capital gain involving a derivative, and therefore the investor could never qualify for the preferential tax rate on long-term capital gains.
There are many tax-oriented strategies to create differing tax treatments for what are actually offsetting investments. The idea is to have a loss treated as ordinary income, and recognized as soon as possible, while the offsetting gain is delayed and then treated as a long-term capital gain if that is possible.
The Camp proposal would establish a general rule that both arms of an offsetting strategy will be taxed as ordinary income or loss on a mark-to-market basis at the end of each year. So if one position made money while the other lost, they would wash each other out. There would be little reason to enter into many such transactions. And derivatives -- except those that businesses use in ways that qualify for hedge accounting -- will automatically be marked to market.
One type of product that appears to be targeted is so-called exchange-traded notes. They are devised to be alternatives to other investments, but with better tax treatment. Consider a mutual fund that invests in the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500. If you buy shares in that fund, dividends will be distributed to you each year, and you pay taxes on them even if you reinvest them in the fund. But if a bank issues a ''note'' tied to the total return on the same index, you will not owe taxes until you sell the note. The effect is to defer taxes on the dividend income.
To get that tax break, you pay a fee to the bank that issued the note, and you take the credit risk. If the bank fails, you will suffer no matter how well the index does.
Under the proposal, anyone who owned such a security would have to mark it to market value at the end of each year and pay taxes on the gain, assuming there was one, at ordinary income tax rates.
Then there is the strategy of ''covered call writing,'' followed by some cautious investors. An investor who owns, say, 100 shares of I.B.M., sells a call option allowing the purchaser to buy the stock at a fixed price for a certain amount of time. The current law treats the profit or loss on the option as a capital gain or loss, but does not levy any tax on the stock until it is actually sold.
Under the Camp proposal, that would change. When the individual sold the covered call option, that would be treated as being equivalent to the sale of the stock, and capital gains tax would be owed on the difference between the market value at the time and the price the investor paid. While the call option was still open, any gain or loss in the stock would be treated as ordinary income or loss, as would any change in the value of the option.
If that provision became law, covered call writing would probably fade away as a tactic used by individuals, at least when the investor had a gain in the stock before writing the option.
The taxation of bonds bought at a discount on the market would also change. Bonds trade at a discount because their interest rate is below the current market level or because the issuer's creditworthiness has fallen since the bond was issued.
Right now, ''there is a tax benefit to investing in discount bonds as opposed to current-pay bonds with the same yield,'' said David C. Garlock, the director of financial services for Ernst & Young's national tax practice. That is because you do not pay tax on the rise in the bond's value as it nears maturity, until the bond is sold.
That would change. The unpaid interest would accrue and be taxed each year, just as it is now on zero-coupon bonds. There is a partial exemption for owners of distressed bonds bought at deep discounts, but they would still owe some taxes each year, even if they did not sell the bond.
A change that would affect many investors is a rule that would set the tax basis of securities at the investor's average cost for that security. Now, investors can, if they choose, use a different basis. So an investor who bought 300 shares of a company over time, at prices of $20, $25 and $30 for each 100-share block, would assert that the first 100 sold was the block bought at the highest price. If the selling price was $35, that would produce a reported capital gain of $5 per share.
Under the average age cost method, the gain would be twice that ($35 less the $25 average cost).
The proposal is notably silent on the question of whether capital gains should continue to get a preferential tax rate. And it does not address the issue of carried interest, which allows private equity firms to treat much or all of what they pay their executives as capital gains. President Obama wants to change that, but Republicans have resisted the idea.
Representative Camp says he plans to try to pass a comprehensive bill to overhaul the tax code during the current session, and there is some evidence that he intends to try to do that on a bipartisan basis. This week he and the top Democrat on the committee, Sander Levin, also of Michigan, jointly appointed task forces of committee members to deal with specific tax issues. They seem to have included every contentious issue there is, from charitable deductions to international taxation.
It is obviously a long way from appointing such groups to actually reaching a deal that can pass both the House and the Senate and be signed by the president. But the Camp proposal may be a start to reaching consensus on some of the details that would be in any successful compromise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave Camp, left, and Sander Levin of the House Ways and Means Committee have appointed task forces to examine tax issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%)

PERSON: DAVE CAMP (90%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



556 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh's Time of Transition

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
The sprawling H. J. Heinz headquarters in Pittsburgh was turned into apartment lofts for the city's growing creative class long ago. The famous five-story neon ketchup bottle that stood outside the headquarters has been moved to the wall of the city's history museum.
The corporate remnant of Heinz that is still left in Pittsburgh is passing into the faraway hands of its new acquirers, Warren E. Buffett's Nebraska conglomerate and a Brazilian investment firm. The new owners promised to maintain the offices in Pittsburgh, but Heinz has been in the process of leaving the city for a long time. 
It is a story that the city knows well by now, as it has transitioned from one of the great hubs of corporate and industrial America to a new economy based on small technology and medical companies with unfamiliar names. It is only somewhat of a coincidence that on the same day as Heinz's announcement, US Airways, which grew out of the old Pittsburgh carrier Allegheny Airlines, said it was merging with American Airlines, a Texas-based company.
Heinz is the latest in a long list of prominent American companies that have significantly reduced, or all together eliminated, their presence in the Pittsburgh area, including erstwhile giants like U.S. Steel and Gulf Oil, which were among the nation's 10 largest in 1955, according to David Hounshell, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Now there are none among America's 100 largest companies.
But in the course of reducing it reliance on industry and big corporations, Pittsburgh has become one of the more envied stories of urban revival in the Rust Belt. The proportion of Pittsburgh's work force in manufacturing is now actually lower than the national average, according to Christopher Briem, a University of Pittsburgh professor. But so is its unemployment rate, at 7.2 percent.
Like other historic names of the city - like Carnegie, Mellon and Frick - the Heinz brand still courses through the civic blood of Pittsburgh's heart. Its name is on the local concert hall and the Steelers football stadium. The city still identifies with its past image as a pug-nosed, beer-swilling metropolis, even as it markets itself as a hub for technology, medicine and finance.
"We have a really diversified economy now, and yet still maintain our industrial heritage," said Yarone Zober, the chief of staff to Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. "Whether they make another bottle of ketchup here - they are still Pittsburgh."
Henry J. Heinz was firmly in the mold of the other entrepreneurs who built Pittsburgh's manufacturing core. He turned peddling horseradish from his mother's garden into a factory complex on the Allegheny River. He was one of many magnates to see the transportation advantages of Pittsburgh's three rivers.
Andrew Carnegie used the rivers and the local coal deposits to build the colossus of the Pittsburgh economy, the company that would become known as U.S. Steel. The soot churned out by steel manufacturing turned Pittsburgh into the butt of many jokes, but the industry also served as the spine of the city's corporate economy.
The Pittsburgh machine was stumbling in the 1970s as factories came under pressure from lower-wage workers around the world. The city began to empty out and local corporations looked elsewhere. Heinz moved its ketchup manufacturing operation to Ohio and scattered the rest of its United States production. For a while it looked like the city was doomed.
But over the last two decades it has undergone a recovery that many other struggling cities in Middle America look to emulate. It has been led by the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon, which have built research facilities where the old mills once were. The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is now the largest employer in the region and has its acronym atop the old U.S. Steel skyscraper.
The tight-knit neighborhoods and cultural institutions paid for by the old magnates have also helped it attract outside firms. Google decided in 2009 to move a big work force into an old Nabisco plant in the city.
Heinz has its corporate staff of 1,200 based mostly in the skyscraper built by another local icon, Pittsburgh Plate Glass. But perhaps the biggest Heinz influence now comes from the foundations and endowments that were set up by the heirs to the Heinz fortunes.
"The headquarters are here, and those are real jobs," said Mr. Briem. "But in terms of the mythos of Pittsburgh as a manufacturing city, Heinz is no longer here."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The ketchup bottle moved to Pittsburgh's history museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 A corporate remnant of H. J. Heinz that is still left in Pittsburgh. The new owners pledged to maintain offices there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RIVERS (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); HISTORY (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%)

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (69%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



557 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Uphill Road for Plan to Cut Government's Drug Costs

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
In just a handful of words in his State of the Union address, President Obama renewed a proposal to lower the amount that the federal government pays for drugs taken by low-income seniors -- a measure that supporters say would save the government more than $150 billion over the next decade. But it faces formidable opposition from Republicans, some Democrats and the powerful pharmaceutical industry, making passage unlikely.
In essence, the plan would require drug companies to provide Medicare with discounts like those they now give to Medicaid. Specifically, the proposal would reduce federal payments for drugs used by low-income Medicare beneficiaries, including nine million people who are eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare. 
This group's drug benefits are now covered by Medicare, not Medicaid, which is significant because the two programs have different rules for how much they pay pharmaceutical companies.
A similar measure was included in the administration's budget proposal last year, and was introduced during the last Congress. But the drug industry and others who oppose the idea claim it would, in effect, impose government price controls on drugs and reduce the amount of money that pharmaceutical companies have for drug research.
President Obama returned to the idea in Tuesday's speech, some said, because it is a relatively straightforward proposal that would not directly affect the care that seniors receive.
''I think the attractiveness, politically, is that it's one of the changes you can make to Medicare that has really pretty significant savings, that doesn't represent a direct cut in benefits,'' said John F. Hoadley, a research professor at the Health Policy Institute at Georgetown University who supports the idea.
Under current law, manufacturers generally must charge Medicaid 23 percent less than the average price they receive for sale of a drug to retail pharmacies. Drug makers must provide additional discounts if a drug's price rises faster than the rate of inflation. But in Medicare, drug benefits are delivered by private insurers subsidized by the government. The insurers offer coverage in free-standing drug plans and in comprehensive managed care plans, like health maintenance organizations.
The private Medicare plans negotiate prices with drug makers and have secured substantial discounts. But these discounts are smaller -- in some cases, much smaller -- than what Medicaid gets by law, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.
Previously, people eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare received drug coverage through Medicaid because Medicare generally did not pay for outpatient prescription drugs. But that changed in 2006, when Medicare began covering drugs.
Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee, said this arrangement provided ''a windfall to drug manufacturers.'' In the last Congress, he and Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, introduced legislation similar to Mr. Obama's proposal.
The pharmaceutical industry was harshly critical of Mr. Obama's proposal. ''The president's proposal to tamper with a program that works well would not yield any benefit for seniors,'' Matthew Bennett, a vice president for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, said in a statement issued after the speech.
Some have speculated that other consumers could end up paying for the cost savings if drug makers raise their prices to account for the lost revenue. ''That money has to come from somewhere,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the conservative group American Action Forum and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''This is hardly as free as it is portrayed.''
Mr. Holtz-Eakin and others have also argued that Medicare's drug benefit program has been a success, and making changes to it could interfere with that. The cost of Medicare drug coverage, for beneficiaries and for the government, has been lower than expected, they say, in part because of intense competition among insurers.
Others have argued that those cost savings were because of lower-than-expected enrollment in the program and the growing use of low-cost generic drugs.
Because the potential cost savings are significant, Mr. Hoadley said he didn't expect Mr. Obama or other supporters of the idea to give up anytime soon. But he noted that both Republicans and Democrats listen closely when the pharmaceutical industry speaks.
''I think there will be a fight for this, but a lot of people who watch Congress pretty closely think this is going to be a tough road,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Henry Waxman, Democrat of California, has criticized the current arrangement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); MEDICARE (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); PHARMACIES (62%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); HENRY WAXMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



558 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Governments Look for New Ways to Pay for Roads and Bridges

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
In the great taxation debate of 2013, there is another issue that is bedeviling lawmakers at the state and federal level.
Governments are struggling with good news that has a fiscal downside. Cars are becoming more efficient, alternative fuels are on the rise and people are driving less. That is good for the environment, but bad for the revenues that go into building and maintaining roads, because it means that the money collected from gasoline taxes has been dwindling while costs climb.
Fuel taxes provide some 40 percent of state highway revenues and 92 percent of the federal highway trust fund, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. But the funds, squeezed by fuel economy, are not keeping up with the nation's infrastructure needs. Moreover, according to figures collected by the organization, only about a dozen states tie their tax to inflation, which means that the revenue loses ground every year. Seventeen states have not raised their gas taxes in at least 20 years; only six states and the District of Columbia have raised their gas taxes since 2008. The federal gas tax, currently 18.4 cents per gallon, has not been raised since 1997. 
Even some business interests normally opposed to higher taxes have called for an increase. In Congressional testimony this week, Thomas J. Donohue, the chief executive of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said: ''The money is running out, so we need to phase in a moderate increase in the gas tax over a number of years and index it to inflation. Shippers and truckers are all on board to pay a little more as long as the money goes to where it's needed.''
The situation has also led some to suggest a radical rethinking of road financing. Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia addressed the issue last month with a controversial proposal: get rid of the tax on gasoline altogether and increase the state's sales tax to fill most of the funding gap that the move would create.
''We simply cannot continue to do what we have always done and expect this problem to go away,'' Mr. McDonnell said in announcing the plan, which did retain taxes on diesel fuel and call for a $100 annual fee on cars that run on alternative fuels.
But to many infrastructure experts, the plan abandoned a core concept in transportation investment: the user pays. For Robert W. Poole Jr., director of transportation policy for the Reason Foundation, a libertarian research organization, the plan is ''a disaster, for all kinds of reasons.'' The logic of the proposal, he said, escapes him: ''It looks like the governor just grabbed this out of thin air.''
Jeff Caldwell, the governor's spokesman, says a broad-based sales tax makes sense because even people who never drive benefit from roads, bridges and other transportation projects financed with the tax. ''Every good or service that they receive or purchase uses transportation at some point,'' he said.
While the idea might not survive the legislative session, it has blown open the staid world of infrastructure financing -- and not all of the response has been negative. ''It is a bold proposal that has drawn high-profile attention to transportation funding issues -- not just in Virginia, but across the country,'' said Jaime Rall, transportation senior policy specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''In that sense it has already been successful.''
Joshua Schank, the chief executive of the Eno Center for Transportation in Washington, said: ''At least they're trying to do something.''
Other states are looking to new ways, beyond simple gas tax increases, of filling in the funding gap. A number of states, including Oregon and Washington, are taking a close look at a plan that transportation experts like Mr. Poole favor: charging users based on the number of miles they drive.
When discussed in the abstract, such plans evoke Big-Brother nightmares of GPS-enabled black boxes that will track a driver's every move. In practice, Mr. Poole notes, a rough system can be developed using the E-ZPass systems already in place in many states, or even lower-tech systems that do not track driver movement at all. Oregon's legislation would impose the mileage tax on fuel-efficient car models coming out in 2015 or later; the state is currently running a small pilot program to test five alternatives for measuring mileage that include such things as GPS devices and smartphones. There is even a flat-fee option for those who do not wish to be tracked at all.
In Virginia, other proposals are gaining ground, including an approach passed by the state Senate that would keep the gas tax -- and even raise it and tie it to inflation. The governor, who is in the last year of his term-limited time in office, has said he would entertain a compromise that retained the gas tax along with other measures.
But Mr. Schank of the Eno Institute said that ultimately, more states might turn to sales taxes as an alternative to the gas tax, because ''People generally prefer a sales tax to these other forms of taxation,'' and have generally lost faith in the notion that their gas tax they pay goes to identifiable projects that affect their lives. ''You have to give them a clear idea of how you're going to use their money if you're going to get their support for tax increases,'' he said.
The problem, as Governor McDonnell of Virginia put it, is that the problem of dealing with declining gas tax revenues isn't going anywhere -- and must be dealt with one way or another. ''If we stick to the same old means of funding transportation, we will find ourselves having the same debates and facing the same revenue shortfalls over and over again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in 2009 at a road construction site in Virginia. The state is considering using sales tax to pay for highways. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: Gas Taxes Fail to Keep Up: Because most states do not tie their gasoline tax to inflation, taxes are worth less over time. Increased fuel efficiency also means consumers are using less gas. (Source: American Petroleum Institute
 Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TESTIMONY (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



559 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5862 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Ann' (previews start on Monday; opens on March 7) Not many people could play both Nancy Reagan and Ann Richards, but Holland Taylor is not most people. Long before she cornered the market on feisty WASPdom on television shows like ''Two and a Half Men'' and ''The Practice,'' Ms. Taylor was racking up theater credits in shows like ''Butley'' and ''The Cocktail Hour.'' (And, yes, ''Moose Murders.'') Now she returns to Broadway in a one-woman tribute (which she also wrote) to the larger-than-life former governor of Texas, who, when she was the state treasurer of Texas, had some choice comments for Mrs. Reagan's husband in her keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Eric Grode) 
'Belleville' (in previews; opens on March 3) Amy Herzog's plays continue to take on darker shadows, as family-focused works like ''After the Revolution'' and ''4000 Miles'' give way to ''The Great God Pan,'' which looked at repressed childhood memories, and now this examination of a fraying American couple in Paris. Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller return to the roles the originated at Yale Repertory Theater in 2011, when Charles Isherwood, in his review for The New York Times, called it ''a thrillingly good play.'' It is directed, as it was in 2011, by Anne Kauffman, who does creepy naturalism better than just about anyone (''The Thugs,'' ''Maple and Vine''). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Grode)
'The Dance and the Railroad' (in previews; opens on Feb. 25) Each Signature Theater season typically features at least one relative obscurity by the honored playwright, and this year's David Henry Hwang season is no exception. This 1981 play, which was only Mr. Hwang's second, uses the conventions of Chinese opera to illuminate the story of two Chinese immigrant workers in the California mountains during the building of the Transcontinental Railroad. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Donnybrook!' (in previews; opens on Sunday) The lyricist Johnny Burke is best known for his longstanding relationship with Paramount Pictures, including more than two dozen Bing Crosby films, but he also contributed the music as well as lyrics to this short-lived 1961 Broadway musical. Its source material -- the classic John Ford film ''The Quiet Man,'' featuring John Wayne as an Irish-American boxer who returns to the old sod -- makes it a natural property for Irish Repertory Theater, which has enlivened similarly forgotten musicals like ''Take Me Along'' and ''New Girl in Town.'' Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Grode)
'The Flick' (previews start on Friday; opens on March 12) Underpaid young workers in small-town New England certainly paid off for Annie Baker and her frequent director, Sam Gold, in 2010 with their critical smash ''The Aliens.'' Now the formidable duo, who also collaborated on ''Circle Mirror Transformation'' and Ms. Baker's ''Uncle Vanya'' translation, have turned their attention to three undermotivated employees of a rundown Massachusetts movie theater. The news release promises ''tiny battles and not-so-tiny heartbreaks''; the track record promises a good bit more than that. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
'Frigid New York' (opens on Wednesday) For those Fringe Festival fans who wish they didn't have to choose from so many options (or walk so much), this 30-show mini-festival takes over three East Village theaters for 12 days. Your guess is as good as ours, but titles like ''Serving Bait to Rich People'' (a sushi waitress's tell-all) and ''A Panda Suit, Pythagoras and Plenty of Puns'' (presumably self-explanatory) are bound to get noticed. Kraine Theater and the Red Room, 85 East Fourth Street, East Village; Under St. Mark's, 94 St. Marks Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 868-4444, frigidnewyork.info. (Grode)
'Hamlet' (in previews; opens on Sunday) The sight of four actors giving thrilling life to Shaw's ''Saint Joan'' was an unexpected delight of the 2012 theater season. Those same four actors (Andrus Nichols, Tom O'Keefe, Ted Lewis and Eric Tucker) are back, and this time they're climbing an even steeper mountain. Mr. Tucker once again directs, as if he doesn't have enough to worry about. (''Saint Joan'' joins it in repertory starting March 6.) Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Grode)
'Henry IV, Part 1' (previews start on Friday; opens on March 3) Following the Pearl Theater's last show, the one-man ''In Acting Shakespeare,'' comes a more straightforward take on the playwright. (''Henry V'' is scheduled for next season.) Shakespeare is old hat for the Pearl cast by now, but the choice of director is an intriguing one: Davis McCallum. He has earned a sterling reputation for directing new plays, most recently ''Water by the Spoonful'' and ''The Whale,'' but the classics are a relatively uncharted territory for him. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Grode)
'Hit the Wall' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 10) The West Village is rich with cultural milestones, and one of the biggest came on June 28, 1969. That's when a police raid on the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar, exploded into a days-long riot that would serve as a catalyst for the gay rights movement. Ike Holter's new play, which made its debut last year as part of Steppenwolf's Garage Rep series, blends history and mythology as it puts audiences on the periphery of that epochal conflict. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Grode)
'Jesus in India' (in previews; opens on Thursday) What would Jesus do if he found himself in modern-day Indo-Mathura, an area teeming with spiritual innovation and (according the news release) really good marijuana? Lloyd Suh (''American Hwangap'') tries to answer that question in this contemporary parable, which presents Jesus as a teenager traveling on the back of a camel with his pal Abigail of Galilee. Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, ma-yitheatre.org. (Grode)
'Katie Roche' (in previews; opens on Feb. 25) To the extent that New York theatergoers know anything about the 20th-century Irish playwright Teresa Deevy, it is because of the Mint Theater. The enterprising theater, which is also publishing two volumes of her writings, wraps up its three-play Deevy retrospective with this 1936 drama about a wildly ambitious servant girl. The Abbey Theater brought it to America in 1937, but this is the first American production. The Mint's artistic director, Jonathan Bank, directs once again. 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Grode)
'The Lying Lesson' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on March 13) Craig Lucas likes to play with shifting identities, as he did via the chat-room shenanigans in ''The Dying Gaul'' and the body swapping of ''Prelude to a Kiss.'' Here the playwright has created a woman (played by Carol Kane) who may or may not be Bette Davis. Her seemingly clueless young assistant is quickly embroiled in a series of cat-and-mouse games -- a form of theatrical combat in which the director, Pam MacKinnon (''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?''), has become an expert. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Grode)
'The Madrid' (in previews; opens on Feb. 26) When a kindergarten teacher one day gets up and walks out of work, she leaves in the lurch not only a batch of blinking 5-year-olds but also a loving husband and a daughter. Liz Flahive makes her return to Manhattan Theater Club, which presented her domestic drama ''From Up Here'' in 2008, with this new work and Edie Falco in tow. Leigh Silverman, who directed ''From Up Here'' and has a way with plays about troublesome parents (''Well,'' ''Coraline''), teams up with Ms. Flahive again here. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Grode)
'Much Ado About Nothing' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Fans of no-frills, shrewdly conceived, elegantly presented Shakespeare have learned to circle their calendars for Arin Arbus's annual Theater for a New Audience productions. This one, her fifth in as many years, features a love-hate relationship not unlike that in last year's ''Taming of the Shrew,'' and Ms. Arbus once again has Maggie Siff (''Sons of Anarchy'') to represent the female half of the equation. Playing Benedick opposite Ms. Siff's Beatrice is the British classical actor Jonathan Cake. The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Grode)
'The North Pool' (in previews; opens on March 6) After several well-received Off Broadway plays, Rajiv Joseph hit the big time in 2011 when Robin Williams starred in his ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo'' on Broadway. Now Mr. Joseph heads back downtown with this psychological thriller about a game of cat and mouse conducted between a high school principal and a transfer student from the Middle East. Giovanna Sardelli, who has directed nearly all of Mr. Joseph's other Off Broadway pieces, does the same here. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Grode)
'The Old Boy' (in previews; opens on March 5) Playwrights as prolific as A.R. Gurney tend not to pick favorites among their works. Who can remember them all? That said, Mr. Gurney has referred to this 1991 play, about a politician who confronts some unexpected demons when he returns to his New England prep school, as ''a favorite but somewhat neglected child.'' Enter the Keen Company to bestow a little attention. Mr. Gurney has also done a bit of revisiting, as the script is being billed as ''newly revised.'' Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Old Hats' (in previews; opens on March 4) There are few details about this piece, but here's all you really need to know: Bill Irwin and David Shiner are together again. The duo created stage magic in various iterations of the uproarious ''Fool Moon,'' and now they and their director, Tina Landau, promise more of the same: mime, magic, music (courtesy of Nellie McKay) and mayhem. Mr. Irwin's more recent stage performances have included convincing takes on Albee, Shakespeare and even Beckett, but he still presumably has a good pratfall or three left in him. Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Grode)
'Passion' (in previews; opens on Feb. 28) With the recent glut of Stephen Sondheim revivals, revues and tributes, you may have forgotten that the last time a new Sondheim show had its debut on Broadway was in 1994. That's when his and James Lapine's haunting chamber musical about love and obsession opened, only to close after eight months. A revival is long overdue, and the director John Doyle (this time dispensing with his usual actors-doubling-as-musicians tactic) has cast two formidable women who have also been much missed on the New York stage, Melissa Errico and Judy Kuhn. Ryan Silverman rounds out the central love triangle. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Grode)
'Really Really' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) The premise of this new work sounds less than groundbreaking: College pals turn on one another after a boozy party. But Paul Downs Colaizzo's play has plenty going for it, including a good track record (it was a smash for the Signature Theater in Washington last year), TV darlings in the cast (Zosia Mamet of ''Girls,'' Matt Lauria of ''Friday Night Lights'') and, most intriguing, the infinitely resourceful director David Cromer (''Tribes,'' ''Our Town''). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Grode)
'The Revisionist' (previews start on Friday; opens on Feb. 28) Typically, Michael Chernus or maybe Seth Numrich qualifies as a marquee name at a Rattlestick Playwrights Theater show. Enter Jesse Eisenberg and Vanessa Redgrave, who make up two-thirds of the cast of Mr. Eisenberg's new play. (His previous work for the stage, ''Asuncion,'' was also a Rattlestick production.) Here he plays a man with terrible writer's block; she plays a Holocaust survivor (and his second cousin) who has a few complicating secrets about the family's past. Daniel Oreskes also stars. Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Grode)
'Rodgers and Hammerstein's Cinderella' (in previews; opens on March 3) The 1957 television musical of ''Cinderella'' was a runaway smash and almost immediately began spawning stage incarnations, starring Eartha Kitt, Everett Quinton and Jean Stapleton (though they weren't cast in the title role). But this staging is the property's first appearance on Broadway, complete with a new book by Douglas Carter Beane (''Sister Act,'' ''The Little Dog Laughed'') and four fairly obscure songs from the Rodgers and Hammerstein catalog. Laura Osnes stars as Cinderella, and she is surrounded by three formidable scene stealers: Harriet Harris, Victoria Clark and Ann Harada. Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Talley's Folly' (in previews; opens on March 5) Two years after his death, Lanford Wilson is beginning to receive his due on New York stages. The Signature's revival of his ''Mound Builders'' opens in a few weeks, but first comes Mr. Wilson's 1980 Pulitzer Prize winner, a wistful 1940s romance between a Jewish immigrant (Danny Burstein) and a Protestant nurse (Sarah Paulson) in rural Missouri. Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' A four-alarm urgency infuses Scarlett Johansson's performance in Rob Ashford's oxygen-starved revival of Tennessee Williams's 1955 drama of sex and lies. If Ms. Johansson is oddly un-feline as Maggie the Cat, she sure has presence. The rest of the cast, including Benjamin Walker and Ciaran Hinds, gets lost in the heavy atmospherics (2:40). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Mystery of Edwin Drood' A boisterous, well-cast revival of Rupert Holmes's Tony-winning 1986 musical, which gives the audience the chance to choose the identity of the killer of the titular hero. Chita Rivera lends an air of authentic glamour, Jim Norton is a cutup as the music-hall proprietor, and the young cast sings the lovely score with great skill (2:35). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, roundabouttheatre.org, (212) 719-1300. (Charles Isherwood)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Once' This gentle musical, set in Dublin, about a love affair that never quite happens -- based on the 2006 movie -- inventively uses songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova) and dance to convey a beautiful shimmer of might-have-been regret. Staged by John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (''Black Watch''), the production stars the immensely appealing Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Other Place' Laurie Metcalf gives a captivating, complicated performance in Sharr White's clever puzzle of a drama, portraying a woman grappling with sudden onset of a mysterious illness at the same time as her personal life -- disloyal husband (Bill Pullman), estranged daughter (Zoe Perry) -- threatens to implode. Joe Mantello's nimble direction ratchets up the suspense (1:10). Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (800) 432-7250, mtc-nyc.org. (Isherwood)
'Picnic' A torso stars in Sam Gold's stultifying revival of William Inge's time-yellowed 1953 play, set in lusty, dusty Kansas. The torso belongs to Sebastian Stan as a handsome drifter whose bare pecs and abs stir deep longings in lonely bosoms. Those being stirred include Maggie Grace, Elizabeth Marvel, Ellen Burstyn and the excellent Mare Winningham (2:05). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?' Pam MacKinnon's shattering 50th-anniversary revival of Edward Albee's hair-raising drama of marital discord stars an electrifying Tracy Letts (of ''August: Osage County'' fame) as George and Amy Morton (ditto) as Martha, ably supported by Carrie Coon and Madison Dirks as the young couple they use as cannon fodder. Not to be missed (3:05). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
'All the Rage' In Martin Moran's artfully rambling one-man show about anger (expressed and sublimated), the map of self-discovery is part of no known GPS program. Mr. Moran, directed by Seth Barrish, is very much his own tour guide, in a chatty but soulful show that leads you into thought-and-emotion-stirring territory not often visited at the theater (1:20). Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)
'Bunnicula: A Rabbit Tale of Musical Mystery' Charles Busch livens up this fun adaptation of the kid's novel about a family enduring some turmoil after adopting a rabbit that may be a vampire (1:05). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dr2theatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Clive' Jonathan Marc Sherman's adaptation of ''Baal,'' an early Brecht play about a poète maudit, has the potential to electrify. But the current that flows through this version, directed by and starring Ethan Hawke, is oddly sluggish. Brecht's tale of a degenerate society assumes the air of a wearily confirmed prophecy. Vincent D'Onofrio, a great wild-card actor, provides some electricity (1:45). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'FoodActs' A seven-person cast performs excerpts from nontraditional texts touching on various sweet and savory food-related themes: deprivation, salivation and satiation, and the many ways in which eating intersects with so many important moments of our lives. Some of the prose is enchanting and evocative, like Proust's meditation on the connection between taste and involuntary memory. But with more than 27 texts and dozens of epigraphs, the show has more courses than the tasting menu at Alinea, and is much less gratifying (1:45). The Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foodacts.com. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (David Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Luck of the Irish' Kirsten Greenidge's play, about race, class and real estate, is set in the 1950s and the 2000s. The plot turns on the disputed possession of a house in a lush Boston suburb. Thoughtful but diffuse (2:10). Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com, lct3.org. (Isherwood)
'The Mark of Zorro' How can you lure children raised on computer-generated imagery and high-tech special effects to a swashbuckling adventure with only three actors, a few props and dozens of plastic cutouts? You'd need clever design, highly skilled performers and plenty of fancy footwork. That's mostly what you get in this adaptation of the tale of the masked justice-seeker Zorro, performed by Visible Fictions, a Scottish troupe. The story's violence may give some parents pause, but in pure inventiveness, the show is a triumph (1:05). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org. (Laurel Graeber)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
'The Vandal' The playwriting debut of the actor Hamish Linklater is a modest comedy-drama of two lonely souls, a widow (the wonderful Deirdre O'Connell) and widower (Zach Grenier, ditto), brought together by a talky youngster played by the puckish Noah Robbins. Smoothly directed by Jim Simpson (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Isherwood)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Good Person of Szechwan' The Foundry Theater's utterly splendid production of Bertolt Brecht's seriocomic fable about the difficulty of doing good in a corrupt world stars the magnetic Taylor Mac as the prostitute turned shopkeeper Shen Te. Lisa Kron supplies ample humor in two supporting roles, and the sensational bluesy-folksy score is by César Alvarez and the Lisps. Lear deBessonet directs (2:30). La MaMa Ellen Stewart Theater, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, thefoundrytheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Here We Are' Like many Living Theater productions, this experimental, participatory performance is part examination of historical anarchist movements, part indictment of the current sociopolitical order and part team-building love-in. It would be easy to be cynical about the chanting, hugging, dancing and sandal-making (yes, sandal-making) of this loosely structured performance. But it's also easy to get caught up in the dramatic drum circle (1:15). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side, (866) 811-4111, livingtheatre.org. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Airswimming' (closes on Sunday) Charlotte Jones's story of two single women sent to a hospital for the criminally insane in 1924 because they had babies is not about the outrage at their treatment but about the sisterhood they build that helps them endure. Modestly staged, impressively acted, poignant, intelligent and at times wickedly funny (1:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Bethany' (closes on Sunday) A single mother (the terrific America Ferrera) fights to win back custody of her child -- lost to foster care when she became homeless -- in Laura Marks's smart, compassionate play, featuring a fine supporting cast and sensitive direction by Gaye Taylor Upchurch (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Collision' (closes on Sunday) Taken as a fast, creepy exercise in suspense, Lyle Kessler's play about a college roommate from hell might be reasonably diverting. But as David Fofi's production for the Amoralists company sprints and staggers toward an apocalyptic conclusion, it doesn't sustain the scrutiny invited by its too-topical plot (imagine ''Leopold and Loeb with automatic weapons'') (1:40). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, collisiontheplay.com. (Brantley)
'The House of Von Macramé' (closes on Saturday) A flamboyantly gory musical spoof of slasher movies, set in the fashion world, where everyone is either wearing or wielding a stiletto (metaphorically speaking). Delicious performances abound, and Matt Marks's songs are fun, but Joshua Conkel's script could stand to lose a few inches off the hemline (2:15). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (Isherwood)
'The Jammer' (closes on Sunday) Rolin Jones's thin comic strip of a play finds a humble Everyman from Brooklyn (the fine Patch Darragh) leaving behind his beloved girl to chase a dream of becoming a roller derby star (1:30). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'This Clement World' (closes on Sunday) The idiosyncratic writer-singer-songwriter Cynthia Hopkins muses on the evils of climate change in her new show, which may bring no news to environmentally minded theatergoers, but features a terrific song score and some gorgeous video of her three-week sojourn in the Arctic (1:10). St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Isherwood)
'Working on a Special Day' (closes on Sunday) This two-hander, directed and performed by Ana Graham and Antonio Vega, adapts Ettore Scola's 1977 film ''A Special Day'' for the stage. With the humblest of means -- chalk drawings, a few props -- the actors create a world, a refuge for two, playfully reminding us that theater is a place for make believe and that imagination can be a bulwark against oppression (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org, playco.org. (Saltz)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WRITERS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); SONG WRITING (68%); GOVERNORS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (66%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



560 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Judge Accepts Transocean Guilty Plea in Gulf Oil Spill

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- A federal judge in New Orleans approved on Thursday Transocean's agreement with prosecutors to plead guilty to a misdemeanor charge and pay $400 million in criminal penalties for its role in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil well blowout that left 11 workers dead and resulted in a yearlong moratorium on deepwater drilling.
The Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig was charged with negligently discharging oil into the gulf. 
''I believe the plea agreement is reasonable and is accepted,'' said Judge Jane Triche Milazzo of United States District Court. No witnesses came to court to object to the agreement, and Judge Milazzo said she received no letters of opposition.
Transocean's criminal fine is the second highest assessed for an environmental disaster, but it pales in comparison with the $1.26 billion in criminal fines that BP was assessed for the same accident, which spewed millions of barrels of crude oil into the gulf, fouling hundreds of miles of beaches in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama.
The judge's action effectively closes the book on prosecutions of Transocean, but the company must still settle with a plaintiffs' steering committee representing more than 100,000 people and businesses claiming damages.
Various government and independent reports have concluded that Transocean's crew was negligent in interpreting pressure tests that might otherwise have made certain that the well casing and cement would not have leaked oil and gas. In court filings, the government reiterated its contention that BP supervisors had ultimate responsibility for supervising the testing.
In a statement made when the agreement was reached last month, Transocean said it represented ''a positive step forward'' and company lawyers in a filing said Transocean ''accepts responsibility'' for criminal conduct.
The company has also agreed to pay $1 billion in civil penalties, and will be on probation for five years. Much of the money Transocean has agreed to pay will go toward research for oil spill prevention and response and to restore coastal natural habitat, including barrier islands off the coast of Louisiana.
Now the long legal process surrounding the 2010 accident will focus again on BP.
BP, which has already pleaded guilty to 11 counts of felony manslaughter and other charges and agreed to pay a total of $4.5 billion in fines and penalties, is scheduled to return to court again on Feb. 25. Unless it reaches a settlement with the Justice Department before that date, it faces as much as $21 billion in civil fines for what the government claims was gross negligence for the discharge of an estimated 4.9 million barrels of oil over 87 days.
BP has so far strongly contested the claim that it was grossly negligent and it maintains that the government's estimates for the amount of oil spilled have been exaggerated. BP executives have publicly and privately said they do not expect to settle out of court, and the government has grown more heated in recent months in describing the company's responsibilities.
In its defense in the coming trial, BP has indicated that it will try to assign more responsibility to Transocean and Halliburton, whose employees were involved in cementing the well, for causing the accident. In a $7.8 billion settlement last year with the plaintiffs' steering committee, it sought to assign claims to the two other companies.
BP is also facing potential damages of more than $30 billion from claims made by the gulf states and local governments for property and economic damages. The company has already been forced to divest roughly $38 billion of assets to survive its long legal struggle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A BP cleanup crew in Louisiana in 2010. The well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico discharged an estimated 4.9 million barrels of oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (91%); OIL SPILLS (91%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); DAMAGES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); FELONIES (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); BEACHES (67%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (61%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



561 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Clean Energy Faces Hurdles In Legislature

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
During his State of the Union address Tuesday, President Obama doubled down on his vision for renewable energy, calling for more wind and solar power.
In Texas, the Legislature is less enthusiastic.
As the session progresses, renewable energy advocates are bracing to defend critical policies that have helped Texas become the leading wind-power state. The ascendancy of the Tea Party, an abundance of cheap natural gas and tighter budgets have reduced the sway of the wind industry. Solar power advocates anticipate limited gains at best.
Clean energy basked in political popularity about a decade ago, as wind farms sprouted atop West Texas mesas. In 2005, Gov. Rick Perry and lawmakers approved a mandate to build 5,880 megawatts of renewable power capacity by 2015. They also backed the construction of billions of dollars' worth of transmission lines to reach wind farms. 
But Texas' renewable energy push has ''been eclipsed by the effect of fracking,'' said Representative Mark Strama, Democrat of Austin, referring to the drilling technology that prompted the natural gas boom.
The wind industry will focus on renewing a tax incentive for economic development known as Chapter 313. It allows wind farms to temporarily lower their property tax bills. The incentive, which also helps other industries, expires next year. One lawmaker has filed legislation to renew it until 2024.
''If it's not renewed, my companies will be investing in Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska,'' said Jeffrey Clark, the executive director of the Wind Coalition, a regional advocacy group.
Wind groups will also guard against attacks on the renewable energy mandate. Last month, the Public Utility Commission, which regulates the power industry, recommended that lawmakers repeal it. The commission's chairwoman, Donna Nelson, has criticized wind power for straining the electric grid, an assertion rejected by the industry.
With more than 12,000 megawatts of wind power and expectations of further growth thanks to Congress's recent extension of a crucial federal tax credit, Texas has long since met the mandate's requirements, so a repeal is arguably irrelevant. Advocates of wind power fear the symbolism of the move and the potential ramifications for a related system of renewable energy credits.
The precedent created by such a policy change would be ''a really scary thing for the industry,'' said Colin Meehan, an official with the Environmental Defense Fund.
Conservatives disagree. ''Wind is a very mature industry here in Texas, and it doesn't need those subsidies anymore,'' said Bill Peacock, the director of the Center for Economic Freedom at the Texas Public Policy Foundation.
The anti-mandate mood bodes poorly for advocates of solar power, who have long sought a special ''non-wind'' requirement to help their technology. Nonetheless, Representative Rafael Anchia, Democrat of Dallas, introduced House Bill 723, which would set a goal of 1,500 megawatts of non-wind renewable installations by 2022, a substantial amount. And Mr. Strama plans to introduce a bill that would ensure that Texans with rooftop solar panels are paid if they put extra power (beyond what they use at home) onto the electric grid.
Renewable energy groups will also emphasize their ability to deliver power that uses no water, which is especially important during a drought.
Advocates' greatest hopes may center on a program meant to make it easier for businesses to install solar panels or to improve energy and water efficiency. The idea is to allow property owners to pay for the improvements through higher property tax assessments, after borrowing the money initially.
Two powerful committee chairmen have introduced bills to ease regulatory hurdles for businesses wanting to participate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the Blue Wing Solar Farm near San Antonio. Work on another solar farm, left, is under way nearby. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (95%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PROPERTY TAX (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



562 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and Science

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman paints Republicans as anti-science (''The Ignorance Caucus,'' column, Feb. 11). Unfortunately for Mr. Krugman, facts don't support the allegations. The effort to double funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health began with Congressional Republicans. It was the Republican House alone that in November passed legislation ensuring that foreign-born students educated in the sciences at American colleges and universities have the opportunity to remain in this country and contribute to our nation's scientific endeavors. 
Mr. Krugman singled me out for criticism because I proposed increasing medical research funding to help save lives by reducing funding for lower-priority programs like social and political science research. Government can't afford to pay for everything, and governing is about making choices.
The National Science Foundation finances important research helping find cures for devastating diseases. But the foundation has only enough funds to support 15 percent of the applications it receives for research grants in the biological sciences. Yet we spend nearly $250 million annually on research in the social, behavioral, economic and political arena, such as a recent $266,821 grant to figure out why voters chose the candidates they did in the 2010 election. This money could fund another 1,000 grants in life sciences!
Reprioritizing government's existing spending to favor saving lives over more political science research is not anti-science; it's common sense.
ERIC I. CANTOR Washington, Feb. 14, 2013
The writer is the House majority leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



563 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: A Time of Danger and Pain, Two Long Decades Ago

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case in the exhibition called ''NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star'' at the New Museum, a big time capsule of a show -- it fills the museum top to bottom -- assembled by curators who were in their teens or younger during the year examined.
They certainly have a dramatic history to consider. When the economy tanked at the end of the 1980s and the art market fell apart, some serious gate crashing happened. Artists long shut out from the mainstream, many of them African-American, Asian-American and Latino, gained entry and changed the picture.
This was also a time of terrible danger with the spread of AIDS. Friends and lovers, artists among them, with whom some of us had expected to be sharing the rest of our lives, were going, and gone. The era had an emergency room charge. A shiver of angry mourning ran through it and still reverberates. 
The result was art of an unusually urgent moral and political texture. And the New Museum show, named for a Sonic Youth album, is fortunate to have a particularly moving example in the installation ''Amazing Grace'' by Nari Ward, the Jamaica-born New York artist.
Originally conceived for an abandoned firehouse on West 141st Street in Manhattan, it's an assemblage of some 300 discarded baby strollers Mr. Ward collected in the neighborhood around his Harlem studio. He ganged them together, bound by strips of fire hose into a large oval, turned down the lights and added some music: Mahalia Jackson singing ''Amazing Grace.''
Seen in the New Museum's annex at 231 Bowery, the piece evokes multiple images: a church interior, a slave ship, a hospital ward, some kind of Lourdes of the lost and found, where castoff strollers carrying the memories of children grown and departed get a new life in art. Unseen in New York since 1993, it's a deep experience, and its setting on the Bowery, even the 2013 upscale Bowery, works.
''Amazing Grace'' is by itself worth the admission price, but there's also an impressive installation inside the museum, Pepón Osorio's ''Scene of the Crime (Whose Crime?).'' This full-scale, minutely detailed fictional tableau suggesting the aftermath of violence in a Latino home was a highlight of the 1993 Whitney Biennial, the so-called political biennial. It is the 20th anniversary of that show, which prompted the idea for the New Museum's ''NYC 1993.''
There's no question that the Biennial was significant, though less because it introduced new ideas than because it consolidated impulses already in the air. Another, genuinely groundbreaking exhibition, ''The Decade Show: Frameworks of Identity in the 1980s,'' had preceded it by three years. Organized by the New Museum, the Studio Museum in Harlem and the Museum of Contemporary Hispanic Art, now long gone, it had a mixed reception. Critics acknowledged its innovative political content but disdained a perceived lack of formal polish.
For its part the 1993 Whitney Biennial kept the content, or some version of it, and added up-to-the-minute M.F.A. polish. The result was a succès de scandale. Racial politics in Harlem was one thing; in a mainstream museum on the Upper East Side it was quite another. Extravagantly reviled by the press, the show wore the insults like badges of honor and did excellent box office.
Several artists who were in that Biennial -- Matthew Barney, Robert Gober, Mike Kelley, Glenn Ligon, Charles Ray, Cindy Sherman -- are also in ''NYC 1993'' with other work from the same year. Although their art is more than familiar now, you can still see what made it look novel and arresting then. Yet a little historical research provokes questions of how ''political,'' over all and in real-life terms, the show really was.
A point of comparison is another major multi-artist exhibition, from Los Angeles, that opened in New York two days before the Biennial. It was titled ''CARA, Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation, 1965-1985,'' and it too dealt with issues of race, sexuality and marginalized culture, often in forcefully polemical forms, with sources not in art schools but in the street. It was a gripping show. Few people saw it.
The Biennial was in Manhattan; the Chicano show at the Bronx Museum of the Arts. Within the art world's political reference one show was a sensation, the other hardly there. This is true now. An elaborate timeline that the New Museum compiled for ''NYC 1993'' -- it's the show's only example of intensive archival research; the catalog has almost none -- makes no mention of the ''CARA'' show.
I'm not saying that the politics of the Biennial were inauthentic. I am saying that its now-privileged -- exalted -- position in history is skewed along lines of class and race. It's the job of a retrospective show to change that perspective or at least question it, which ''NYC 93'' doesn't do.
This flaw, however, takes nothing away from the individual works chosen by the show's organizers: Massimiliano Gioni, associate director and director of exhibitions; Gary Carrion-Murayari, curator; Jenny Moore, associate curator; and Margot Norton, assistant curator. Although short on surprises their selection is well considered, and they mixed things in ways that make clear the issues that drove art at the time.
They've acknowledged, for example, the era's focus on racial diversity and representation by including what is still today an usually high number of African-American artists for a New York group show. With the presence of Ida Applebroog, Lutz Bacher, Nicole Eisenman and Cady Noland they let us see that women were doing some of the most powerfully critical work of the time.
One timely section of the show, on the third floor, is basically about men shooting things: with guns, power tools, penises and words. A small second-floor space is devoted to a meditation on color. Kiki Smith's black bronze nude ''Virgin Mary'' stands at the center, facing a photograph of a jaundice-skinned Hannah Wilke, sick with cancer. A yellowish-orange abstract painting by Byron Kim covers one wall; two black-and-white mosaic paintings by Jack Whitten flicker on another, their pieces reminding us that we're in a predigital world.
The curators have also picked up on the mortality-consciousness of the time. AIDS is, one way or another, as omnipresent as it was in 1993. For many New Yorkers then it created a sense of perpetual catastrophe. It also produced a huge amount of art that is far too little known and could easily fill the New Museum's five floors. There's a show to do.
As it is we're given two feature-length films, Gregg Bordowitz's ''Fast Trip, Long Drop'' and Derek Jarman's extraordinary ''Blue,'' along with some often-seen Nan Goldin photographs. In addition much of the fourth floor is reserved for Felix Gonzalez-Torres's soft-focus photographic mural of two solitary birds winging through a cloudy sky. The gallery's blinding-orange carpet (courtesy of the artist Rudolf Stingel) undercuts what surely meant to be a reflective ambience, but a beautiful 1993 sound piece, ''Sail on Sailor,'' by Kristin Oppenheim, helps sustain it.
Some things I could live without. A wall of Lina Bertucci's glam photo portraits of artists is one; paintings by Elizabeth Peyton and John Currin another. Yes, they were emerging in 1993, but they're part of a different, politically complacent era. The artists of the collective called Art Club 2000, photographed lounging around on Conran sofas and dressed in matching Gap grunge, are fun. But do they really rate a place of honor on the catalog cover? Maybe for this soft catalog, which consists of decades-old reprints and curatorial recollections of being a teenager in '93.
Yet certain art from that 1993 Whitney show offers models of how to do better than this, how to light fires. As a commissioned Biennial project the Los Angeles artist Daniel J. Martinez redesigned the metal admission buttons worn by visitors to read, ''I can't imagine ever wanting to be white,'' but with only a single word on each button, so you had to check out your fellow visitors to read the entire message. People were incensed, delighted, puzzled. Most important, they were reacting, thinking, getting a sense of themselves as performers in history.
Interestingly that piece was Mr. Martinez's second proposal. The first one entailed inscribing another sentence on the museum's Madison Avenue windows: ''In the rich man's house the only place to spit is in his face.'' The Whitney said no.
Given an economy so often referred to as the 1 percent versus the 99 percent, and an art market staggeringly rich at the top and, through money, calling the historical shots, Mr. Martinez's words seem more apt than ever. Apparently the New Museum thought so and decided to realize the original Whitney piece for this show. But it has sort of blown it. It has placed the inscription on a window far back in the lobby, where it's easy to miss and the words are hard to read.
Why not on the Bowery window? What is there to fear? The possibility that the museum itself might be accused of being a rich man's house? (One of its trustees, Dakis Joannou, has exhibited his collection here, has his name on a gallery and owns ''Amazing Grace.'') So what? Put it there. (The museum says it had planned to put another piece in the window, then didn't.) Inspire a conversation, a big one, about art and its many kinds of politics and who writes the stories, and why. That's what we need from our museums and our sharp young curators on the scene today.
''NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star'' remains through May 26 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222; newmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star: at the New Museum includes the installation ''Amazing Grace,'' 1993, by Nari Ward, an assemblage of some 300 discarded baby strollers. (C27)
''Amazing Grace,'' Nari Ward's installation at the New Museum, is an assemblage of discarded baby strollers he collected in the neighborhood around his Harlem studio in 1993.
 Above left, ''Gibbet,'' 1993-94, by Cady Noland, and right, ''Bill (The Luck),'' 1978, by Kathe Burkhart. Below left, ''Intra-Venus #7-February 20-August 8, 1992'' by Hannah Wilke. Below right, ''The Scene of the Crime (Whose Crime?),'' 1993, a detail showing one of the rooms by Pepón Osorio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); HOSPITALS (66%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (53%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013



564 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Berkshire and 3G Capital Buying Heinz for $23 Billion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. | Updated
Just days ago, the fate of a 144-year-old American icon was being hashed out in a Pittsburgh conference room as executives spoke by phone to representatives of two global billionaires who went by the code names ''Owl'' and ''Goose.''
Owl was Warren E. Buffett, chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway and one of the most admired investors in the world. Goose was Jorge Paulo Lemann, who became one of Brazil's wealthiest financiers with 3G Capital. What emerged from the talks was a $23 billion takeover of H. J. Heinz, the maker of Heinz ketchup.
The announcement of the deal on Thursday and the involvement of the closely followed Mr. Buffett served as confirmation that deal-making spirits have revived in corporate America. 
Yet the deal also signals the rising power of investors from once-emerging markets like Brazil. Armed with strong balance sheets and a growing domestic economy, Brazilian entities have emerged as prominent buyers of American companies like Pilgrim's Pride, the chicken producer. 3G itself bought control of Burger King two years ago, leading an effort to revive the fortunes of the fast-food chain.
In some ways, Heinz fits Mr. Buffett's playbook almost to a T. Its global brand recognition approaches that of Coca-Cola and I.B.M., two companies in which he owns big stakes, and its financial performance is sound. Over the last 12 months, its stock has risen nearly 17 percent.
Born from Henry J. Heinz's horseradish business, Heinz has become one of the best-recognized food companies in the world, with its bottles of deep-red ketchup sitting on millions of kitchen tables. But it has expanded its offerings to include Ore-Ida French fries and Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce.
For the year ended Oct. 28, the company reported $11.6 billion in revenue and $1 billion in profit. It generates the largest portion of its sales in Europe, but its Asian markets are growing quickly. And it has improved its net sales for eight consecutive fiscal years.
''It is our kind of company,'' Mr. Buffett told CNBC on Thursday. It fits comfortably alongside companies that Berkshire already owns, including the Dairy Queen chain. But Berkshire and 3G are paying a healthy price for Heinz. Under the terms of the deal, they will pay $72.50 a share, 20 percent higher than the stock's closing price on Wednesday and 19 percent higher than its record high. Including debt, the transaction is worth $28 billion.
The deal deviates from Mr. Buffett's playbook in several ways. For example, the day-to-day operations of Heinz will be in the hands of 3G.
''Heinz will be 3G's baby,'' Mr. Buffett said on CNBC.
Also, Berkshire is splitting ownership of Heinz 50-50 with 3G, with each company putting in about $4 billion in cash. Mr. Buffett will pay an additional $8 billion to receive preferred shares, which will pay him a hefty annual dividend of about 9 percent.
The rest of the deal will be financed with debt arranged by banks.
In some respects, the transaction more closely resembles a leveraged buyout, a type of deal that Mr. Buffett has criticized in the past.
But he and Mr. Lemann insist that they intend to hold Heinz for the long term, whereas in a private equity deal, the buyers inevitably seek to profit by selling their acquisition. Mr. Buffett said that he regarded the food company as a trophy asset like Fruit of the Loom or the Burlington Northern Railroad, and would love to buy more control over time.
''We may increase our ownership if any members of the 3G Group ultimately want to sell out later,'' he said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Buffett, 82, says he has studied Heinz as a potential takeover target for years, keeping a file on the company as far back as 1980. For years he heard tales of the ketchup maker from one of its former chief executives, Anthony O'Reilly, at the house of the former Washington Post publisher Katharine Graham.
Still, he didn't breathe a word of his interest to outsiders, and never visited Heinz at its longtime corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh.
He did not make the first move. The roots of Thursday's deal lie with 3G, whose principal backer is Mr. Lemann, a former Brazilian tennis champion who has since become one of that country's wealthiest men through years of shrewd deal-making.
The two men have been friends for decades, having served on the board of Gillette, and both are big investors in the brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev. At a corporate retreat for the brewer's executives in early December, Mr. Lemann approached Mr. Buffett with the idea of taking Heinz private, and quickly got his support.
Mr. Lemann took Heinz's longtime chief executive, William R. Johnson, out to lunch at the Port Royal Club in Naples, Fla., later that month. At the time, Mr. Johnson thought the meeting was about forming a deeper partnership with Burger King, and no deal was discussed.
It wasn't until last month that Mr. Lemann formally approached Mr. Johnson with a proposal to buy Heinz, and work began in earnest two weeks ago.
To keep matters confidential, 3G and its advisers refrained from flying to Pittsburgh, instead holding negotiations through phone calls and video chats.
Maintaining Heinz's ties to Pittsburgh was important to Mr. Johnson, and the buyers assured him that the company would remain headquartered there.
As part of the code for the deal talks, Heinz executives referred to their company as ''Penguin,'' a nod to the hockey team in Pittsburgh. But advisers to Mr. Buffett and Mr. Lemann, having a hard time remembering the nickname, stuck with the bird theme and called the company ''Hawk'' instead.
The negotiations moved quickly, with Mr. Buffett poring through Heinz's financial statements himself. He and Mr. Lemann initially offered to pay about $70 a share last month, according to people with direct knowledge of the process. After some back and forth with Mr. Johnson and his advisers, the suitors eventually raised their offer to $72.50.
As the final terms of the deal began to fall into place this week, Mr. Buffett invited Mr. Johnson and 3G's chief executive, Alexandre Behring, to lunch for the first time. Over burgers at the Hilton in his hometown, Omaha, Mr. Buffett noted that Heinz was started in 1869, the same year that his great-grandfather Sidney founded a grocery store.
Unable to resist tweaking his guest, Mr. Buffett recalled that while Heinz ran into financial trouble briefly in the late 1800s, his family's business had fared better. ''So for a little bit of time, we were ahead,'' he recalled in an interview on Thursday.
The talks concluded in the wee hours of Thursday morning. Exhausted, 3G executives and their advisers celebrated the imminent closing of their deal in suitable fashion: over Whoppers and fries from Burger King, surrounded by piles of Heinz ketchup packets.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); BRAND EQUITY (65%)

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (92%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (55%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); PPC (NASDAQ) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (55%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (55%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013



565 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Confidence on Upswing, Mergers Make Comeback

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The mega-merger is back.
For the corporate takeover business, the last half-decade was a fallow period. Wall Street deal makers and chief executives, brought low by the global financial crisis, lacked the confidence to strike the audacious multibillion-dollar acquisitions that had defined previous market booms.
Cycles, however, turn, and in the opening weeks of 2013, merger activity has suddenly roared back to life. On Thursday, Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, said it had teamed up with Brazilian investors to buy the ketchup maker H. J. Heinz for about $23 billion. And American Airlines and US Airways agreed to merge in a deal valued at $11 billion.
Those transactions come a week after a planned $24 billion buyout of the computer company Dell by its founder, Michael S. Dell, and private equity backers. And Liberty Global, the company controlled by the billionaire media magnate John C. Malone, struck a $16 billion deal to buy the British cable business Virgin Media. 
"Since the crisis, one by one, the stars came into alignment, and it was only a matter of time before you had a week like we just had," said James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase.
Still, bankers and lawyers remain circumspect, warning that it is still too early to declare a mergers-and-acquisitions boom like those during the junk bond craze of 1989, the dot-com bubble of 1999 and the leveraged buyout bonanza of 2007. They also say that it is important to pay heed to the excesses that developed during these moments of merger mania, which all ended badly.
A confluence of factors has driven the recent deals. Most visibly, the stock market has been on a tear, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index this week briefly hitting its highest levels since November 2007. Higher share prices have buoyed the confidence of chief executives, who now, instead of retrenching, are looking for ways to expand their businesses.
A number of clouds that hovered over the markets last year have also been removed, eliminating the uncertainty that hampered deal making. Mergers and acquisitions activity in 2012 remained tepid as companies took a wait-and-see approach over the outcome of the presidential election and negotiations over the fiscal cliff. The problems in Europe, which began in earnest in 2011, shut down a lot of potential transactions, but the region has since stabilized.
"When we talk to our corporate clients as well as the bankers, we keep hearing them talk about increased confidence," said John A. Bick, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, who advised Heinz on its acquisition by Mr. Buffett and his partners.
Mr. Bick said that mega-mergers had a psychological component, meaning that once transactions start happening, chief executives do not want to be left behind. "In the same way that success breeds success, deals breed more deals," he said.
A central reason for the return of big transactions is the mountain of cash on corporate balance sheets. After the financial crisis, companies hunkered down, laying off employees and cutting costs. As a result, they generated savings. Today, corporations in the S.& P. 500 are sitting on more than $1 trillion in cash. With interest rates near zero, that money is earning very little in bank accounts, so executives are looking to put it to work by acquiring businesses.
The private equity deal-making machine is also revving up again. The world's largest buyout firms have hundreds of billions of dollars of "dry powder" - money allotted to deals in Wall Street parlance - and they are on the hunt. The proposed leveraged buyout of Dell, led by Mr. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake Partners, was the largest private equity transaction since July 2007, when the Blackstone Group acquired the hotel chain Hilton Worldwide for $26 billion just as the credit markets were seizing up.
But perhaps the single biggest factor driving the return of corporate takeovers is the banking system's renewed health. Corporations often rely on bank loans for financing acquisitions, and the ability of private equity firms to strike multibillion-dollar transactions depends on the willingness of banks to lend them money.
For years, banks, saddled by the toxic mortgage assets weighing on their balance sheets, turned off the lending spigot. But with the housing crisis in the rearview mirror and economic conditions slowly improving, banks are again lining up to provide corporate loans at record-low interest rates to finance acquisitions.
The banks, of course, are major beneficiaries of megadeals, earning big fees from both advising on the transactions and lending money to finance them. Mergers and acquisitions in the United States total $158.7 billion so far this year, according to Thomson Reuters data, more than double the amount in the same period last year. JPMorgan, for example, has benefited from the surge, advising on four big deals in recent weeks, including the Dell bid and Comcast's $16.7 billion offer for the rest of NBCUniversal that it did not already own.
Mr. Buffett, in a television interview last month, declared that the banks had repaired their businesses and no longer posed a threat to the economy. "The capital ratios are huge, the excesses on the asset aside have been largely cleared out," said Mr. Buffett, whose acquisition of Heinz will be his second-largest acquisition, behind his $35.9 billion purchase of a majority stake in the railroad company Burlington Northern Santa Fe in 2009.
While Wall Street has an air of giddiness over the year's start, most deal makers temper their comments about the current environment with warnings about undisciplined behavior like overpaying for deals and borrowing too much to pay for them.
Though private equity firms were battered by the financial crisis, they made it through the downturn on relatively solid ground. Many of their megadeals, like Hilton, looked destined for bankruptcy after the markets collapsed, but they have since recovered. The deals have benefited from an improving economy, as well as robust lending markets that allowed companies to push back the large amounts of debt that were to have come due in the next few years.
But there are still plenty of cautionary tales about the consequences of overpriced, overleveraged takeovers. Consider Energy Future Holdings, the biggest private equity deal in history. Struck at the peak of the merger boom in October 2007, the company has suffered from low natural gas prices and too much debt, and could be forced to restructure this year. Its owners, a group led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG, are likely to lose billions.
Even Mr. Buffett made a mistake on Energy Future Holdings, having invested $2 billion in the company's bonds. He admitted to shareholders last year that the investment was a blunder and would most likely be wiped out.
"In tennis parlance," Mr. Buffett wrote, "this was a major unforced error."
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 15 about the proposed acquisition of H. J. Heinz by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital referred incorrectly to Heinz's sales in Europe. The region accounts for the largest portion of the company's sales; it does not account for the majority of its sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Johnson, left, chief of H. J. Heinz, and Alex Behring, a partner in 3G Capital, one of the companies buying Heinz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH SRAKOCIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: Deals on the Rise So Far This Year (Source: Thomson Reuters) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNERS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); AIRLINES (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (83%); H J HEINZ CO (71%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); LIBERTY GLOBAL INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); HNZ (NYSE) (71%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (71%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (71%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (71%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (71%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (57%); JOHN MALONE (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (55%); WILLIAM R JOHNSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013



566 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Revolution

BYLINE: SARA RUFFIN COSTELLO


HIGHLIGHT: M&#233;rida, Mexico, might not offer much on the outside, but a clutch of creative insiders has transformed the faded colonial town into a sophisticated escapist retreat. 

 BODY:
On arriving in the sleepy Mexican town of Mérida, one might wonder what all the recent fuss is about. The historical center, with its faded limestone mansions, narrow cobblestoned streets and monumental cathedral - one of the oldest in all of the Americas and built out of limestone rocks from ancient Mayan structures - is indeed picturesque. And the handful of modest-looking restaurants in town can certainly serve up a decent bowl of lime and tortilla soup. And if you're in the market to unload some pesos on a colorful hammock or an embroidered blouse, a few mom-and-pop tourist shops can help you do just that. But in truth, there's not much to shake a stick at here in this remote corner of the Yucatán. 
And it's precisely for this reason, the town's languid, low-key atmosphere, as well as some nicely priced real estate, that a savvy group of early adopters - artists, architects and designers - has descended on this lost-glory town, snatching up old, dilapidated haciendas and refurbishing them into year-round retreats or Shangri-Las for rent. As once-laid-back Tulum has become headquarters for the vacationing fashion crowds, and San Miguel de Allende is overrun with American snowbirds, Mérida has quietly evolved into a sophisticated refuge for those who like to be far from the touristy crowds.
The food author Jeremiah Tower, 70, famous for helping to kick-start the California locavore restaurant scene at Chez Panisse and then at Stars in San Francisco, stumbled upon Mérida in 2004. He remembers driving past the town one day and feeling an indescribable urge to stop the car. A year later, he found himself stranded in resort-clogged Cozumel with all his worldly possessions underwater in a Katrina-soaked New Orleans, where he had recently moved. After several visits to Mérida, he claims he was enchanted, literally haunted by the city, "which is totally ridiculous, it's not like we are talking about Venice," he said, dragging a corn tortilla through a chili mole sauce at La Lupita inside the Santiago Market. "But there is something undefinable about Mérida," Tower explained. "Perhaps it's the spirituality of the Mayans and the city itself, which has nothing to do with attracting tourism." He eventually moved here full time to write, scuba dive and rehabilitate colonial houses.
For Nicolas Malleville, an ex-model from Argentina, the discovery of Mérida was more gradual. Nico, as he is called, moved to the Yucatán after vacationing there several times. In 2003 he decided to open the Coqui Coqui hotel on the beach in Tulum. His Zen-like spa and hotel quickly became popular with the chic bohemian set. A few years ago, he and his Italian wife, Francesca Bonato, followed up with two smaller properties in the region, first in Valladolid and then in nearby Coba. In September 2011, the couple turned a turn-of-the-century building in Mérida's historical center into a perfumeria. Last December, they opened an adjoining guesthouse, complete with Venetian plaster walls, marble baths, red velvet settees and the original ornate tile work. Their boutique features hand-crocheted hammocks, gold filigree necklaces designed by Bonato and their own line of locally made fragrances. Malleville distinguishes his Mérida destination as "more belle époque compared to the minimalist Mayan ruin look of our Tulum place."
At the turn of the 20th century, Mérida was one of the richest cities in the world, due to the lucrative export of rope, which was made from the local agave plant. As the money flowed in, the Casta Divina - elite, wealthy families of Spanish descent - built impressive working haciendas outside of town and created a kind of Paris within the city, even a Champs-Élysée-inspired grand boulevard called Paseo de Montejo. Children of the elite were educated in New Orleans, an easy stop on the trade route, and shopped for clothes in Europe. By the 1920s, however, synthetic nylon replaced sisal and the lucrative rope business dried up.
It was the potential of that last-frontier aspect, gloriously abandoned ruins and haciendas for a song, that lured the expat John Prentice Powell to relocate full time. It was also "the Mayans themselves, who smile even when there's nothing to smile about," he says. A model from Texas by way of Paris and New York, who in his post-mannequin life made custom buttons for Sonia Rykiel and Hermès, he says local real estate prices nearly tripled from 2000 to 2008. (After a dip during the global recession, sales have recently spiked again.) Over the past decade, Powell has renovated a dozen houses in the city, which he rents out to visitors. He also has an inside track to some of the finest haciendas outside of town. He's the town's social conduit, and if he likes you, he might bring you to a late-night Mayan soiree. At the very least, he'll let you know where there's a Mescal tasting.
This comes in handy since the local night life is for the most part made up of small dinner parties thrown by this loose-knit group of expats. "The mix here is New Yorkers who come down for a week every six weeks, the locals and the Casta Divina and art crowd. Throw in some younger, richer more attractive folks from Mexico City and things get interesting," Powell says over margaritas at Alberto's Continental restaurant. Certain weekends will find a supernaturally good-looking group of artists and actors lunching poolside at the Mexican sculptor Jorge Marín's hacienda about 40 minutes outside of town, while other gatherings are slightly more formal.
Not too long ago, the Mexican banking billionaire Roberto Hernández Ramírez and his wife, Claudia, hosted a benefit to raise money for the conservation of Mayan culture. For the concert, the composer Philip Glass performed in an amphitheater that had been designed and built by the artist James Turrell. (Turrell also created a light installation inside a cenote for the occasion.) "Both Roberto and Claudia are the genuine article. They are classic Renaissance patrons," explains James Jordan, the vice chairman of the World Monuments Fund, who shuttles between his apartment in New York and his vacation house here in Mérida. The Ramírezes are renovating several properties in the area and have enlisted the help of Jorge Pardo, the Los Angeles-based sculptor, who happens to own a place in the historic town center. Pardo just finished up work on a 150-year-old house here for Mima and César Reyes, longtime friends and art collectors from Puerto Rico. They became intrigued by Mérida after visiting Pardo here.
It's this organic, serendipitous nature that has all roads leading to Mérida. For the American painter James Brown, it was his friend's 50th birthday party in Mérida that convinced him to relocate here from Oaxaca eight years ago. Today, Brown, his wife, Alexandra, and their family divide their time between the house and studio in Mérida and a place in Paris. On my last day in town, Dec. 20, 2012, I received a hand-delivered invitation to the Browns' house for an "End of World" party. The whole lot of Mérida was there, along with a bohemian mix of international friends. At the stroke of midnight on the eve of the last day of the Mayan calendar, magic happened. The heavens opened up, contradicting what they are supposed to do during the dry season, and released lashings of rain. The multigenerational crowd of Americans, South Americans, Europeans, Yucatecans and Mayans all stood in the street laughing. Despite our collective disabuse of foolish world-ending threats, there were Mescal-soaked hugs of relief. But if our fates had been different that night, so be it. As one guest announced around 4 a.m., when the Mexican reggae band was packing up, "If we do wind up dying later today, this is not a bad way to go."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); BEACHES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (67%); WRITERS (64%); SCUBA DIVING (62%) t spring women 2013; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



567 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: A Deal-Making Craze? Yes, With Caveats

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The deals of recent weeks have very little to do with the trends that bankers on Wall Street say they believe will drive a new cycle of deal-making. 

 BODY:
Are we in the middle of a bull run for mergers?
If you read the front pages of many newspapers on Friday, you'd think so. And the articles are right to some extent: we will most likely see a lot more deals than we've had in previous years. But the premise of these pieces is based more on prognostications than a clearly established trend.
The examples cited - the Buffett-Heinz deal, the American Airlines-US Airways merger, Dell's leveraged buyout and the Comcast-NBCUniversal deal - have virtually nothing in common. They also have very little to do with the trends that bankers on Wall Street say they believe will drive a new cycle of deal-making. 
Let's take each deal one by one.
Berkshire Hathaway's deal for Heinz, according to Warren Buffett himself, has nothing to do with more confidence in the marketplace, low interest rates or just about any other factor signaling a clear direction for deals. 
"It was a one-off opportunity," he said, dismissing talk of trends. He said if the opportunity had come at any other time, he probably would have taken it. And given that Mr. Buffett is financing a large portion of the deal with his company's own cash, it is hard to argue that the deal is being driven by easier lending by banks.
Now let's look at the American Airlines-US Airways tie-up. This deal has been in the works for more than six months. The fact that it happened to occur on the same day as the Berkshire-Heinz deal is just coincidence. 
The chief executive of US Airways has been stalking American ever since it put itself into bankruptcy in 2011. About the only thing you can say about the timing of the deal to suggest it is part of a trend is that American's business improved faster than some had expected, as a result of an uptick in the economy, and therefore had more leverage in its negotiations with US Airways. Rather than emerge out of bankruptcy independent and then merge with US Airways, it chose to merge now. But this deal was always going to happen one way or the other.
How about Dell's leveraged buyout? This deal is unique. How many companies have a billionaire founder - with billions of dollars of excess cash not tied up in the business - willing to finance taking their company private? That's Michael Dell. 
The company had wild amounts of cash on its balance sheet, so yes, that is a part of a trend of cash-rich companies. But the deal could have never been done without Mr. Dell's being willing to put up his own capital. The role of Microsoft as financier had less to do with confidence than defense. Microsoft wanted to keep a main supplier and close ally in business. And the role of Silver Lake is what Silver Lake and other private equity firms have always done. 
Comcast's chief, Brian Roberts, said that he did the deal sooner rather than later because he expected it would cost him more to buy the rest of the business in the future. (Disclosure: I am a co-anchor of "Squawk Box" on CNBC, whose parent company will soon be Comcast solely.) 
So there you have it. Yes, we will see a lot more deals based on the "pipeline" that bankers and other deal makers say they see coming. But any crystal ball-gazing should probably discount, at least a little bit, this week's raft of deals.

        
Confidence on Upswing, Mergers Make Comeback
        
In Heinz Takeover, a New Path for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); GOING PRIVATE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); DIVESTITURES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) American Airlines; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Comcast Corporation; Dell Inc; HJ Heinz Company; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; NBC Universal; US Airways Group Inc; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; Comcast Corporation|CMCSA|NASDAQ; Dell Inc|DELL|NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company|HNZ|NYSE; US Airways Group Inc|LCC|NYSE; DealBook Column; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Comcast Corporation; Dell Inc; HJ Heinz Company; NBC Universal; US Airways Group Inc

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (84%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Comcast Corporation; CMCSA; NASDAQ; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE; US Airways Group Inc; LCC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (75%); MICHAEL DELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



568 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: College President Raises Concerns About Obama's College Scorecard

BYLINE: CATHARINE HILL


HIGHLIGHT: Catharine Hill, the president of Vassar College, says that including data on what college graduates earn could be "misleading." 

 BODY:
 Catharine Hill is the president of Vassar College, a private, liberal arts institution in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
Greater transparency about higher education is needed for America's families, as they make decisions about where students will go to college. That is why Vassar accepted the White House's invitation last year to be among the first 10 colleges and universities to adopt the "Financial Aid Shopping Sheet," a standardized summary with clear information on tuition and grant aid, as well as likely loan burdens and graduation rates. 
However, the latest calls to provide additional information to families - like adding graduates' salary data to the College Scorecard that President Obama mentioned in his State of the Union address - should be met with concern. 
Like the shopping sheet and the Student Right to Know Before You Go Act, proposed by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, the College Scorecard stems from good intentions.
We can all agree that college applicants and their families need to make informed college choices. Yet I am among many economists who would suggest that taking a short view of what college graduates earn early on in the job market is troubling for several reasons.
 First Job May Not Predict Lifetime Earnings 
What a graduate earns soon after college, or even five years out, is not always a good indicator of what he or she will earn over a lifetime. Different professions have different earnings profiles over time, and students and their families should really care about lifetime earnings, not the salary of their first job. 
 Professions Are Changing, Evolving and Disappearing 
A student who receives very specific training during college may have greater success at getting that first job, but may in fact be more vulnerable over time compared to a student with a more general education. 
The nature of the labor market has changed radically over the last several decades. While there was a time in the past when people took a job and stayed with that firm for their lifetimes, these days, people don't even stay in the same professions - much less jobs - for most of their careers, because those professions are changing, evolving and in some cases disappearing at rapid rates.
Being nimble intellectually and able to learn new things is more important to success in the labor market now than ever before. So, training to be an "X" may get you a first job right after graduation, but those jobs may disappear for several reasons, from technological innovation to outsourcing.
 Some Students Go Straight to Graduate School, Not Work 
Postgraduate work has always been important in terms of success in the labor market. Unless supplemented with data on success of getting into graduate programs, earnings data for particular schools soon after graduation will be misleading.
Colleges and universities that successfully send students on to the best graduate schools, including medical school, business school, law school and other graduate schools including Ph.D. programs, will have graduates who aren't earning much after one to five years out of college, but will have very favorable job prospects and earnings expectations further out in their careers. 
 Earnings Are Not Everything 
Some people will decide that they are willing to forgo higher earnings to do something that brings them satisfaction. One's work is not just a means to an income, but a source of satisfaction.
If one school is particularly effective at and has a tradition of educating artists while another has been very successful at producing investment bankers, differences in earnings do not reflect on the relative quality or value of the educations offered.
Yet, in support of transparency, wouldn't it still be better to make the data available than not? It may be, but not as currently proposed.
We love to measure things, but sometimes it is difficult to do so. We need to be careful not to give too much weight to those things we can measure, just because we can measure them. This could be very misleading to students and their families.

        
Which Presidential Candidate Is Better for College Applicants?
        
Tip Sheet | 5 Ways To Find Your College Fit
        
Fafsa Completion Rates Are Available Online
        
Obama Proposes Community College to Career Fund
        
Introducing The Choice

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); POLITICS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%) Obama, Barack; Rubio, Marco; Wyden, Ron; Colleges and Universities; Education (K-12); Financial Aid (Education); Labor and Jobs; United States Politics and Government; Wages and Salaries; Vassar College; Admissions News; Choosing a College; Commentary; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Paying for College

ORGANIZATION: Vassar College

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RON WYDEN (88%); MARCO RUBIO (85%) Obama, Barack; Rubio, Marco; Wyden, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



569 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: What Makes Manhattan Cost So Much

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The biggest driver of Manhattan's high cost of living compared with other areas is housing, which costs more than four times the average for urban areas in the United States. 

 BODY:
You've probably heard the stat before: The cost of living is twice as high in New York as it is in the rest of the country. In the Council for Community and Economic Research's latest cost of living report, we find out exactly what that means, and what the biggest distortions are.
The council collects price data from 307 urban areas. It found that for the first three quarters of 2012, the after-tax cost for a professional/managerial standard of living in Manhattan was 225.4 percent of that for the nation. That made Manhattan once again the most expensive place to live. In second place was Brooklyn (178.6 percent of the national average), followed by Honolulu (167 percent), San Francisco (163.4 percent) and San Jose, Calif. (153.4 percent). 
By far, the biggest culprit in driving up Manhattan's cost of living was housing. The organization's index of housing costs is 455.2 percent of the national average. The other cost of living categories were also higher in Manhattan than in the rest of the country, by the cost differential was not nearly as great.
Here is a selection of the average price data from some of the 60 specific categories they track:
As with any cost-of-living index, the comparisons are imperfect. For example, some of the items that the Council for Community and Economic Research includes in its index are much pricier in Manhattan than elsewhere, but probably don't enter Manhattanites' daily expenses too frequently -- things like tennis balls, bowling or even gasoline.
There's another major issue when comparing costs of living in different cities: a lot of the amenities of various cities are not captured by the prices of individual goods. Stores and restaurants are open later in New York, for example. There are probably more top-notch restaurants in Manhattan than just about anywhere else in the United States. These amenities might push other prices (like rents, or for that matter goods sold in stores that have to pay high rents) higher, so that it's not a true apples-to-apples comparison to look at prices in Manhattan against those in Buffalo or Toledo. Economists disagree about how to adjust for these factors when calculating cost-of-living comparisons.
One new paper by Rebecca Diamond (a Harvard Ph.D. student who is one of the stars on this year's economic job market) tries to take into account the value of these hidden higher amenities. Her research suggests that when you weigh rising amenities against rising costs in some of the highest-skilled cities in America, it actually turns out that higher-skilled people who have access to these better amenities have an even better standard of living than the standard cost-of-living adjustment would show. She also finds that welfare inequality between higher-skilled and lower-skilled workers is greater than the already-wide wage gap alone suggests. 
Another recent paper (by Jessie Handbury of Wharton) also tries to take the relative tastes of rich versus poor people into account. It finds that New York is indeed an expensive place to live if you're poor, but in a way is actually a relatively cheap place to live if you're rich and have standard rich-person tastes (e.g., Whole Foods might be the only place in town for to buy organic free-range chicken in a place like Little Rock, Ark., whereas there's more price competition for high-end food in New York).
One final note: The pricing figures from the Council for Community and Economic Research are different from those in the Consumer Price Index reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The bureau's monthly report reflects spending patterns for all urban consumers and for urban wage earners and clerical workers, and has data from only a couple of dozen broad metropolitan areas (as opposed to the 307 geographically narrower urban areas).

        
Health Care as an Economic Stabilizer
        
Feeling Better About the Economy
        
Podcast: Derivative Trading, Unemployment and the American Gun Business
        
Immigration and Innovation
        
Makers vs. Takers: An Update

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (93%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); RETAILERS (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Consumer Behavior; Manhattan (NYC); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Urban Areas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



570 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Sauce for the Goose, French Style

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A European official says it is critical for the United States to adopt international accounting rules. But he isn't about to give up Europe's self-declared right to depart from such rules. 

 BODY:
Michel Barnier, the Frenchman who is the European Commissioner for internal market and services, spoke in New York on Friday at a luncheon sponsored by the Atlantic Council and the Clearing House, and made the plea for the United States to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards, something that now seems very unlikely.
"I continue to be disappointed by the slowness of the U.S. in moving toward internationally agreed accounting standards," he said. "It is essential to have common basic standards. Otherwise we risk that our prudential standards will have different effects." 
He warned of the risks from a return "to a fragmented system based on national or regional approaches."
Whatever the United States does, genuinely "common basic standards" are probably never going to arrive. And France can take a lot of the credit, or blame, for that. 
It was France, at the behest of its banks, that nearly a decade ago insisted on a carve-out from the rules on bank accounting when the European Union agreed to adopt international standards. As a result, Europe's banks had a choice of which rules to follow.
That move did not go over well with a lot of people. When the United States Securities and Exchange Commission decided to allow foreign companies to file financial reports using the international standards without reconciling them to American rules, it specified that exemption was being granted only to companies that followed the rules without the carve-out. The rules are written by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board.
After the address, I asked Mr. Barnier if the European commitment to common rules meant that it was now willing to give up carve-outs from rules it did not like. Before he could reply, one of his aides, Nadia Calviño, leaped in to point out it was a very small carve-out that Europe demanded and got. (It was small in terms of words, but not in terms of effect.) She made clear Europe was by no means giving up the right to opt out of rules it did not like. Later she told me that the accounting standards board was working on new banking rules, which might not require a carve-out, and that I should look to the future, rather than the past.
Mr. Barnier is the same commissioner who in the past has seemed to threaten to withhold funds from the accounting standards board if it adopted rules that Europe did not like. And he has warned that Americans on the international board might have to go if the United States did not join up.
American support for international reporting standards seems to have faded away. Some big multinationals still like the idea, and so do the big accounting firms. But to many businesses the idea of changing seems like a significant expense with little benefit. The United States Financial Accounting Standards Board and the international board have been seeking a convergence of standards, but it is clear that neither is willing to defer to the other when they have sharp disagreements. It appears that Generally Accepted Accounting Principles will continue to be applied to American companies.
Mary Jo White, President Obama's choice as the next head of the S.E.C., has not, to my knowledge, taken a position on this. But unless she chooses to make adopting international reporting standards a major priority -- and appointed a chief accountant who agreed -- it is unlikely that much will change. 
If Europe really wants to persuade Americans to back international standards, it might help if it swore off future political alteration of accounting rules that it does not like.

        
A Deal on Lease Accounting
        
Riots, Good Credit and Stocks
        
Growth: The U.S. vs. Europe
        
Comparing Jobs in Recessions and Recoveries
        
Polls vs. Markets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (95%); ACCOUNTING (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%) Accounting and Accountants; Barnier, Michel; Europe; European Union; Financial Accounting Standards Board; France; International Accounting Standards Board; United States; accounting; Finance; Floyd Norris

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) European Union; Financial Accounting Standards Board; International Accounting Standards Board

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Barnier, Michel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%) Europe; France; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



571 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Pollution Diet

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA HARNEY


HIGHLIGHT: Japan was once as polluted as China is today. Now it's among the world's cleanest advanced economies. How did it do it? 

 BODY:
TOKYO - Seeing Beijing wreathed in smog throughout the winter, it has been hard not to worry about the costs of China's rapid economic growth. As Jon Stewart pointed out on The Daily Show: Can't a country capable of lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty find a way to keep its own capital safe for habitation?
Five decades ago, people were asking similar questions about Japan. Even as the world marveled at the country's 10 percent annual growth, alarm was growing over air pollution in several cities. Emissions of nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide tripled during the 1960s. Japan became known for pollution-related illnesses: Yokkaichi asthma, Minamata disease (mercury poisoning) - both named after the cities where they first appeared - and cadmium poisoning, known as itai-itai, or "ouch-ouch," because of the excruciating bone pain it caused. 
Today, Japanese cities are among the world's least polluted, according to the World Health Organization. Japan's environmental record is hardly spotless, but the country rightly prides itself on blue skies, Prius taxis and mandatory recycling. What's more, it managed to clean up without sacrificing growth by investing in pollution-control technologies and giving local governments leeway to tighten standards beyond national requirements.
It wasn't easy. The Liberal Democratic Party, which governed Japan almost continuously from 1955 to 2009 and returned to power in December, wasn't proactive in cleaning up the country's air and water. That's partly because until the mid-1990s Japan's electoral system incited politicians to pander to the interests of business. With candidates from the same party required to also run against one another, most politicians stood little chance of distinguishing themselves on policy and so tried to secure votes by courting business and industry associations.
It was only when citizens' movements, which grew out of protests against the 1960 U.S.-Japan Security Treaty and the Vietnam War, got the attention of opposition parties in the 1960s and early 1970s that the government was forced to confront pollution. "I saw the government and L.D.P. as responding just enough, just in time, when the pressure got strong enough that they could defuse the opposition and stay in power," said Timothy George, a professor at the University of Rhode Island and the author of a book on Minamata disease.
The first result was a blizzard of laws - 14 passed at once - in what became known as the Pollution Diet of 1970. Air pollution fell dramatically in the years that followed.
But obstacles remained It wasn't until 1968, a dozen years after Minamata disease was discovered, that the government acknowledged that it was caused by toxic waste dumping by the chemical company Chisso. As late as the 1990s, Japan did not fully comply with some of its own standards. Regulations on the emissions of dioxin, a carcinogen produced during incineration, were also pitifully inadequate, particularly for a country that burns most of its trash. And the courts, under political pressure to protect business interests, have taken too long to process pollution cases.
Another enduring problem has been Japan's focus on infrastructure development, which causes ecological destruction, to build support from voters. Even today as the population shrinks, politicians spend enthusiastically on building dams, paving hillsides and fortifying shorelines - what Alex Kerr, the author of the book "Dogs and Demons," calls "Japan's rampant and escalating assault on its rivers, mountains and coasts."
And yet Japan is a much healthier place to live today than in the 1960s. It cleaned up in part by convincing academia and business that potential profits lay in resolving environmental problems. Kitakyushu - a city in northern Kyushu where chemical and heavy industries contaminated a local bay so badly it became known as the "Sea of Death" - is now a pioneer in the use of hydrogen as a power source. Kawasaki has rebranded itself as an eco-city, building Japan's largest solar power plant on landfill and turning recycling waste into a business. Chisso, once known for dumping toxic waste in the sea, has developed innovative wastewater-treatment technology.
The problems caused by pollution are hitting China even harder and faster. But at least in theory it has a late-mover's advantage. Already, thousands of citizens' groups around China have organized to protest against polluting projects, like chemical and copper plants and wastewater pipelines, sometimes even filing lawsuits. The Chinese media are covering these issues more aggressively than in the past.
And the government is responding. Last month, it ordered the temporary closure of more than 100 polluting factories and the removal of 30 percent of government vehicles from the streets of Beijing. With the health of a nation of more than one billion people at stake, however, it will have to do much, much more.

        
Bad Education
        
The New Japanese Worker is Chinese
        
The Cleric in the Container
        
Wreckless Driving
        
Steppe by Steppe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SMOG (90%); POLITICS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); CARBON MONOXIDE (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); ASTHMA (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); WRITERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Air Pollution; Economic Conditions and Trends; Japan; Recycling of Waste Materials; Sustainable Living; Asia

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



572 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Feb. 15

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: The horse meat scandal widens; China's new leader invokes the Soviet Union's collapse as a warning; European regulators defend their "Robin Hood" tax plan; and Afro-Brazilian drumming in Salvador, Brazil. 

 BODY:
 NEWS The scandal over horse meat in the European food chain widened Thursday from a case of mislabeling to one of food safety as public health authorities in Britain said that a powerful equine painkiller, potentially harmful to human health, "may have entered the food chain" in France. Dan Bilefsky reports from Paris, and Stephen Castle from London. 
Behind closed doors, Xi Jinping, China's new leader, recently held up the Soviet Union's collapse as the risk of wavering from traditional ideology. Chris Buckley reports from Hong Kong.
A senior official of the United Nations nuclear supervisory body said Thursday that talks a day earlier in Iran had ended inconclusively and that international inspectors had not been given access to a site that they suspect may have been used for testing bomb triggers. Alan Cowell reports from Paris.
Oscar Pistorius, a Paralympic gold medal winner from South Africa, was charged with murder after his girlfriend was fatally shot at his home. Lydia Polgreen reports from Johannesburg.
Berkshire Hathaway, the giant conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, said on Thursday that it would buy Heinz for about $23 billion. Berkshire is teaming up with 3G, a Brazilian investment firm that already owns most of Burger King. Michael J. de la Merced and Andrew Ross Sorkin report.
The U.S. Justice Department has cleared the proposed merger of Random House and Penguin, which would create the biggest book publisher in the world, their parent companies said. Eric Pfanner reports from Paris.
European economies shrank in the fourth quarter at their fastest rate since the depth of the financial crisis in 2009, new data showed on Thursday, with both strong and weak countries falling short of expectations and raising anxieties of a longer, deeper recession. Jack Ewing reports.
European regulators on Thursday defended plans to create the first international tax on financial transactions after business groups in the United States warned that the levy could break international agreements. James Kanter reports from Brussels.
 ARTS Advocates of an effort to create a parade ground for Afro-Brazilian drum groups in Salvador, Brazil, say it would help the city's carnaval reclaim its soul. Jon Pareles reports from Salvador, Brazil.
 SPORTS Cristiano Ronaldo's soaring header against Manchester City saved a 1-1 tie for Real Madrid in the Champions League soccer tournament and left his old manager, Alex Ferguson, astonished. Rob Hughes reports from London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE MEAT (91%); MURDER (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD MISLABELING (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); OLYMPICS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SHOOTINGS (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); MERGERS (65%); SOCCER (60%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (60%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (76%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%); CRISTIANO RONALDO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (75%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) CHINA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



573 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Elegaic Images From North Dakota's Boom

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: In words and photography, Elizabeth Farnsworth and Terry Evans document North Dakotans' sense of prosperity and loss. 

 BODY:
For Elizabeth Farnsworth, the story began when she was walking her dog at a highway rest stop off Interstate 94 in North Dakota.
 "My husband and I met a trucker who was making $100,000 per year," said Ms. Farnsworth, a freelance filmmaker and special correspondent on PBS NewsHour. "That's when I got interested in the oil boom."
In collaboration with Terry Evans, a photographer and longtime friend, Ms. Farnsworth has since made seven trips to report on the Bakken oil fields of North Dakota. The Nevada Museum of Art is presenting a showcase of their results in a 13-week series of blog posts that focus on the people and prairie central to this rapidly evolving economic boom. 
From May 2011 to November 2012, the period when Ms. Evans and Ms. Farnsworth were visiting the fields, the number of drilling wells jumped from 5,300 to 8,000, and monthly oil production doubled. North Dakota now has the lowest unemployment rate in the country. State officials predict that 45,000 wells will have been drilled by the time the rush draws down.
But for some, there is a decided downside. "This is changing the landscape so fast," Ms. Evans said. "I grieve now when I leave North Dakota."

Both women are from Salina, Kan., and harbor deep ties to the land -- Ms. Farnsworth, by way of pioneering great-grandparents who moved to the Dakota Territory in the late 1800s. Ms. Evans's connection is more rooted in the recent past: a project in which she photographed one-meter survey grids for The Land Institute in the spring of 1978.
"The ground started coming to life," Ms. Evans said. "Seeing the complexity of the prairie ecosystem was a huge revelation for me. I started thinking a lot about the structure of the prairie, the interrelatedness of all things without any one thing dominating." 
From that point on, she spent nearly eight years photographing nothing but the prairie in black and white - no sky, no people, no structures, just ground. "That work became the organizing principle for everything I've done since then," Ms. Evans said.
In the Bakken oil fields and the surrounding prairie, Ms. Evans's photography probes the invisible links between a landscape and the people it frames. Ms. Farnsworth's prose complements the story with a series of profiles of businessmen, drillers, drivers and ranchers, of locals and migrant laborers.
Scott Davis, who appears in next week's post, raises Black Angus cattle and thanks the oil companies for giving his children an economic opportunity. "But when they cut up the prairie, it broke his heart," Ms. Farnsworth said. "He perfectly embodies all of the contradictions."
Fresh blog posts are posted each Thursday, and an exhibition that includes selected writings and photographs will open this June at the Field Museum in Chicago. 
The Center for Art + Environment at the Nevada Museum of Art will install a similar exhibition in the fall of 2014. Both Ms. Evans and Ms. Farnsworth are taking part in an online discussion about the project next month.
"It's so expansive and beautiful up there," Ms. Evans said. "I want to lift this up for people to see, not out of any sense of wonder, but out of a sense of real sadness and loss." 

        
On Our Radar: Invasive Carp Reach North Dakota
        
Roadside Invader: Engineered Canola
        
Shell Violated Air Permits for Arctic Ships, E.P.A. Says
        
Interior to Review Shell's Arctic Drilling Problems
        
Shell's Drilling Rig Runs Aground

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); MAMMALS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%) Bakken Shale; Elizabeth Farnsworth; Nevada Museum of Art; North Dakota; oil drilling; PBS NewsHour; Terry Evans; Business; Living; Oil

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINA, KS, USA (54%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



574 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Floating Islands to the Rescue

BYLINE: LISA PALMER


HIGHLIGHT: Iowa farmers consider using artificial wetlands to capture and process the fertilizer runoff that is polluting the Mississippi. 

 BODY:
Nutrient pollution is a growing problem along the Upper Mississippi, where water rich in nitrogen and phosphates from crop fertilizer flows directly into the river without the benefit of wetland filtration. 
The problem is particularly acute in the levee region of southern Iowa, where farmers are groping for a remedy. The polluted water eventually reaches the Gulf of Mexico, creating a dead zone that now spans 6,700 square miles and costs fisheries $2.8 billion per year.
Environmentalists have filed lawsuits against the Environmental Protection Agency to press for tighter standards for nitrogen and phosphorus runoff. Worried that the agency might step in with new mandates, farm groups are weighing a temporary solution: floating islands that could process the nutrients before they reach the river. 
Built from recycled soda bottles and seeded with native plants, the islands could mimic the role that wetlands once played in assimilating sediment from local agriculture, said Charles Theiling, a hydrological specialist for the Army Corps of Engineers in Davenport, Iowa.

So far, he said, he has met with 500 farmers so far who favor using a concentrated wetland-effect, or floating islands, for abating the problem.
The runoff pollution is rooted in the disappearance of interconnected flood plains that once existed in this Upper Mississippi region, Mr. Theiling explained. "The flood plains acted like a kidney to the river -- they filtered out the pollutants," he said.
But where flood plains once existed, two million acres of rich agricultural land are now planted with corn in each growing season. Swamps have been drained and trees cut. Meanwhile, 110 individual levee districts with pumps and plumbing have been installed to limit flood risks on these lands, which means that excess rainfall is channeled directly into the levees.
"Our river wetlands are degraded because of conditions of our watershed and the ones we created by eliminating the flood plain," Dr. Theiling said. "We are not getting the natural ecosystem service benefits of nutrient processing and sediment assimilation that we would get if this land were in its natural state."
Thus the floating islands. A company based in Shepherd, Mont., has developed one that is about the size of a backyard: known as the BioHaven, it is designed to grow in drainage ditches and remove unwanted nitrogen and phosphates from field runoff. The islands are inspired by the kind of floating peat bogs found in the waters of northern Minnesota and draw upon nature's design to solve human problems.
"BioHavens farm over-abundant nutrients out of water," said Bruce Kania, the owner of the company, Floating Islands International. If too much fertilizer is applied to a field, then the excess fertilizer will run into the water, he noted. 
"The problem is, that fertilizer is going to try to grow stuff because it's fertilizer, Mr. Kania said. "So anything that is living that responds to fertilizer for its growth, which is basically anything -- any plant, algae, or microbe." The aquatic plants and algae blooms then choke-off beneficial micro-organisms, limiting food sources for fish and other marine life, he said.
As the native plants seeded on the floating Islands grow, they support biological processes that feed on fertilizer in beneficial ways, thereby cleaning the water. Mr. Kania said. "The islands are a sort of bio-reactor, providing something for the microscopic life forms to live on." Drawing on the carbon in the water, he said, they use up the phosphorous and nitrogen gas.
While the islands have not yet been used widely in the Upper Mississippi, over 4,800 have been installed around the world. Aside from the United States Army Corps of Engineers, public and private entities ranging from a wastewater facility at a Louisiana prison to a landfill in New Zealand have commissioned such islands to clean polluted water, provide nutrients for fish and contribute to species habitat.
The islands are made from a nonwoven mat of filter material constructed from the recycled plastic bottles. The plant roots grow through the bottom of the mat, adding microbes that will eventually yield clean water and provide food for fish.

        
Did a Storm Distort Mapping of a Gulf 'Dead Zone'?
        
The Agriculture Chief as Water Advocate
        
Water Pollution and the Farm Economy
        
Q and A: Tracking a Worrisome Dead Zone
        
Q. and A.: The Most Endangered Rivers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (93%); WATER POLLUTION (92%); FERTILIZERS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); RIVERS (90%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); BIOLOGY (76%); ARMIES (75%); FISHERIES (71%); CORN FARMING (58%); LITIGATION (56%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (55%) dead zone; Fertilizer; floating islands; Gulf of Mexico; nutrients; runoff; Upper Mississippi River; Agriculture and Farming; Filters; Fish and Other Marine Life; Levees and Dams; Microbiology; Rivers; Water Pollution; Wetlands; Army Corps of Engineers; Environmental Protection Agency; Iowa; Mississippi; Agriculture; Research/Studies; Science

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Army Corps of Engineers; Environmental Protection Agency

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (96%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Gulf of Mexico; Iowa; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



575 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Illegal Immigrants in New York, Study Finds

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: New York by the Numbers: The Center for Migration Studies estimates the city was home to 750,000 of the nation's 11.7 million unauthorized immigrants in 2010, compared with 2.9 million in California, 1.6 million in Texas and 1 million in Florida. 

 BODY:
New York has far fewer illegal immigrants than California, Texas and Florida, and their ranks have been declining, according to a new analysis by the Center for Migration Studies' International Migration Review. 
 The analysis by the academic journal estimated that New York was home to 750,000 of the nation's 11.7 million unauthorized immigrants in 2010, compared with 2.9 million in California, 1.6 million in Texas and 1 million in Florida. 
 The influx of unauthorized immigrants peaked in 2000, the analysis said, and by 2009 New York was one of 29 states that recorded a net loss - 35,000 - in that population. 
Meanwhile, Florida and several other southern states reported gains in their illegal immigrant population that year. 
 Generally, the decline reflected the impact of the recession on jobs.

        
As Immigration Takes Center Stage, Thoughts From Walt Whitman
        
Mayoral Candidates Oppose Fingerprinting Program
        
The Uncertain Cost of Helping Illegal Immigrants Go to College
        
In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding On to Hope
        
Transgender Latinas Find a Refuge in Queens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (96%); IMMIGRATION (94%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); MAYORS (51%) Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; Immigration; New York by the Numbers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



576 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Towers of Limestone, Sold for $32.5 Million

BYLINE: ROBIN FINN


HIGHLIGHT: A four-bedroom apartment that includes several en-suite bathrooms, along with views of Central Park. 

 BODY:
The luster and lure of the statuesque limestone towers Robert A. M. Stern designed at 15 Central Park West have not diminished, nor apparently has the supply of well-heeled buyers who do not flinch at the notion of spending $7,000 or more per square foot for the privilege of residing there whenever they drop into town. A four-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath condominium with multiple Central Park vistas has sold for $32.5 million and was the most expensive sale of the week, according to city records. The original listing price last June was $36 million.
At 4,584 square feet, the apartment, No. 7D, is among the largest of the nonpenthouse units at 15 Central Park West, where the stunning penthouse formerly owned by Sanford I. Weill, the ex-head of Citigroup, famously sold last year for $88 million to absentee Russian owners. (Like most billionaires, they are partial to assembling a global residential footprint, as are the buyers of No. 7D, who will apparently use the residence as one in a string of impressive pieds-à-terre.) 
Access to the apartment, which has monthly carrying charges of $9,271, is by a grand gallery that opens, through French doors, onto a 32-by-20-foot corner living room with park views. The adjacent library, with its built-in accouterments of French aspen, also overlooks the park. There is a chef's eat-in kitchen and pantry; the breakfast bar seats six and, according to the listing, the kitchen, too, has oblique park views. The master suite, with two baths, picture windows and built-in bookcases, fronts the park; the other three bedrooms all have en-suite marble baths.
Despite settling on a sale price around 9 percent below their target, the sellers, Arthur S. and Evelyne Estey, nearly doubled the investment they made in 2007, when they bought the residence for $16.9 million. Both are veterans of the Lehman Brothers collapse. Mr. Estey has since started his own hedge fund, while his French-born wife, who had a managerial role at Barclays after leaving Lehman, last spring became the chief financial officer of Lycée Français de New York on East 75th Street. (The Lycée is the alma mater of the couple's children.)
Did they decide to be true to their school and move to the East Side? Their broker, Kyle W. Blackmon of Brown Harris Stevens, who lives at 15 Central Park West and was the listing agent for the Weill sale, declined to comment. Mr. Blackmon has sold over $250 million in property at the building, $155 million of which came in transactions last year. The sellers used a limited-liability company, Rhyolyte, and the buyer opted for one called 15CPW7D.
Tamir Shemesh, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group, represented the buyers. He said they first became enamored of 15 Central Park West after visiting friends who own homes there. "They had been inside many times," Mr. Shemesh said, "and decided they wanted to be associated with one of the best buildings in New York City."
The apartment's gracious size and layout, its plethora of en-suite bathrooms and its proximity to Central Park were also contributing factors. As was the price. "We did some negotiating," Mr. Shemesh said, "and in the end, both sides were happy with it." The delighted new owners, he added, are already making cosmetic tweaks and "putting their own imprint" on their acquisition.
 Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday. 

        
In Winning Design, City Hopes to Address a Cramped Future
        
Condom-Giveaway Program Celebrates Birthday
        
No Better Place to Schlep
        
Environmental Group Targets Spewing Buildings in Pollution Report
        
A Valentine Sandwich Board

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) New York City; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Upper West Side (Manhattan, NY); Weill, Sanford I; Buildings and Landmarks; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (65%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (88%) Weill, Sanford I

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Upper West Side (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



577 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: Big Deals Are Back

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street deal makers and chief executives are getting their groove back. | Despite an investigation into suspicious trading, SAC Capital Advisors is holding on to its largest outside investor, the Blackstone Group. | Carl C. Icahn officially has a dog in the Herbalife fight. | Elizabeth Warren grilled top banking regulators in her inaugural appearance as a member of the Senate Banking Committee. 

 BODY:
THE RETURN OF BIG DEALS | Wall Street deal makers and chief executives are getting their groove back. After a fallow few years following the financial crisis, merger activity has roared back to life in the opening weeks of 2013, DealBook's Peter Lattman writes. On Thursday, Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway teamed up with the Brazilian firm 3G Capital to buy H. J. Heinz for $23 billion, as American Airlines and US Airways agreed to merge in an $11 billion deal. Those transactions came on the heels of the $24 billion agreement to take Dell private and the $16 billion deal by Liberty Global to buy Virgin Media. 
"Since the crisis, one by one, the stars came into alignment, and it was only a matter of time before you had a week like we just had," said James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase. Higher stock prices have helped fuel the activity, and signs of economic improvement have bolstered confidence. In addition, banks, which provide both financing and advice, are becoming healthier, more willing to help companies spend the cash that has accumulated on their balance sheets. There also may be a psychological component. "In the same way that success breeds success, deals breed more deals," said John A. Bick, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, who advised Heinz on its acquisition. Still, Mr. Lattman notes, "bankers and lawyers remain circumspect, warning that it is still too early to declare a mergers-and-acquisitions boom." 
The Heinz deal signals the rise of investors from once-emerging markets like Brazil, Michael J. de la Merced and Andrew Ross Sorkin write. 3G, which bought control of Burger King two years ago, made the first move in the Heinz transaction, when its principal backer, Jorge Paulo Lemann, approached Mr. Buffett with the idea. "Heinz will be 3G's baby," Mr. Buffett said on CNBC. Berkshire and 3G are splitting ownership 50-50.
Trading surrounding the deal is already drawing regulatory scrutiny. The Securities and Exchange Commission opened an insider trading inquiry on Thursday after noticing that trading in Heinz call options soared earlier this week, Ben Protess reports. "As recently as Tuesday, there was scant activity in Heinz options. But by Wednesday, as the companies were putting the finishing touches on the deal, options trading jumped, data from Bloomberg shows."
The transaction will turn Heinz into a riskier company, loading it up with debt, Peter Eavis writes. "And there is an element to the deal that shows Mr. Buffett is well aware of its risks." Berkshire is getting preferred shares that will pay a 9 percent return, according to a person familiar with the deal's terms. For comparison, the preferred shares in Goldman Sachs that Berkshire purchased in the financial crisis paid a return of 10 percent.
For Pittsburgh, where Heinz has its headquarters, the deal underscores the city's transition "from one of the great hubs of corporate and industrial America to a new economy based on small technology and medical companies with unfamiliar names," Nathaniel Popper writes. Still, "like other historic names of the city - like Carnegie, Mellon and Frick - the Heinz brand still courses through the civic blood of Pittsburgh's heart."
 BLACKSTONE KEEPS MOST OF ITS MONEY WITH SAC | Despite an investigation into suspicious trading, SAC Capital Advisors is holding on to its largest outside investor, the Blackstone Group, which said on Thursday that it would keep most of its $550 million with the hedge fund for three more months. Thursday was the regularly scheduled deadline for clients of SAC to decide whether to ask for their money back, and the hedge fund, run by Steven A. Cohen, had warned its employees it could face at least $1 billion of withdrawals.
"Blackstone negotiated a way to buy itself time without delaying its ability to withdraw its investment from the fund," Mr. Lattman writes. "SAC agreed to a new redemption policy that it will extend to other clients, allowing them to keep their money with SAC for another quarter. After that, if clients decide to end their relationship with SAC, the fund will return their money in three installments. Under the new policy, SAC is letting clients take a wait-and-see approach, monitoring the investigation for developments that could damage the fund. If they withdraw, they will still have all of their money returned by year-end."
ICAHN REVEALS HERBALIFE STAKE | Carl C. Icahn officially has a dog in the Herbalife fight. Mr. Icahn, the billionaire investor, has built up a 12.98 percent stake, or 14 million shares, in Herbalife, a nutritional supplements company that has been at the center of a public spat involving prominent Wall Street investors. Mr. Icahn paid about $214.1 million for shares and call options in the company, according to a filing on Thursday. Mr. Icahn amassed his position recently, ramping up his purchases in late January and February after a heated debate on live television with another investor, William A. Ackman, who is betting against Herbalife. Herbalife's shares jumped as much as 20 percent in after-hours trading on Thursday. The stock rose 5 percent during the day to close at $38.27 a share.
ON THE AGENDA | Please note that the DealBook newsletter is taking a break on Monday as the stock market closes in observance of Washington's Birthday, but the site will continue to be updated with news. Mr. Icahn will be on CNBC at noon today to discuss Herbalife. Alan Greenspan is on CNBC at 4:20 p.m. Kraft Foods, Burger King and J.M. Smucker report earnings before the market opens. Data on industrial production in January is out at 9:15 a.m. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for February is out at 9:55 a.m.
WARREN COMES OUT SWINGING | Elizabeth Warren grilled top banking regulators in her inaugural appearance as a member of the Senate Banking Committee - something she had once experienced on the other side, during her tenure as a regulator. Senator Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts who helped create the new consumer protection agency, pressed officials to justify how they police big banks. "If they can break the law and drag in billions in profits and then turn around and settle paying out of those profits, then they don't have much incentive to follow the law," she said. "The question I really want to ask is about how tough you are."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Former Co-Chief of BlackBerry Sells Off His Shares | Jim Balsillie, the former co-chief executive and co-chairman of BlackBerry, has sold all of his shares in the struggling company, according to a regulatory filing, Ian Austen reports on the Bits blog of The New York Times.
DealBook »
Airline Merger May Lead to Service Cuts | As American Airlines and US Airways agreed to merge, "some economists and consumer advocates warn that all this consolidation comes at a price for travelers," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Cardinal Health Is Buying Large Medical Supplier for $2 Billion | Cardinal Health, a distributor of prescription drugs, plans to expand into the growing home health care market with the acquisition of AssuraMed.
DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Europe's Diminished Banking Sector | The Economist writes: "Of the more than half a dozen European banks that stood astride the world's capital markets five years ago, only two real powerhouses remain: Deutsche Bank and Barclays. Both are fighting to retain their perch."
ECONOMIST
For Wells Fargo, an Opportunity in Britain | Bloomberg News reports: "Wells Fargo & Co., the lender that's expanding its securities unit to challenge Wall Street competitors, is broadening U.K. commercial property lending as European banks are forced to retreat."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barclays Executive Expresses Confidence in New Strategy | "I'm not going anywhere and I fully support what Antony is doing," Rich Ricci, head of investment banking at Barlcays, told Financial News, in reference to the chief executive, Antony Jenkins.
FINANCIAL NEWS
JPMorgan Said to Let Some Employees Go | Bloomberg News reports: "JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s equities unit dismissed about two dozen U.S. traders and sales staff and cut pay 4 percent to more closely align it with revenue after the industry's worst year for stock trading since 2008."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
A Note of Caution as Buyouts Revive | Reuters reports: "As buyout kings once again flirt with mega deals, they are pledging to avoid relying on cheap debt, clever financial tricks and the other excesses of the heady days that preceded the financial crisis."
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hedge Funds Unloaded Apple Stock in 4th Quarter | Reuters reports: "Some of the biggest hedge funds that helped make Apple Inc a stock market darling lost faith and dumped their stakes in the fourth quarter, fueling the massive drop in the iPhone maker's share price."
REUTERS
Einhorn Bought More Apple Shares | Greenlight Capital, the firm run by David Einhorn, raised its holdings of Apple by nearly 50 percent in the fourth quarter. Mr. Einhorn is engaged in a prominent struggle to encourage Apple to return some cash to shareholders.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Third Point Discloses Stake in Morgan Stanley | Third Point, the firm run by Daniel S. Loeb, built up a $148.2 million stake in Morgan Stanley in the fourth quarter, according to a filing on Thursday.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Russia's Main Stock Exchange Begins Trading | The Moscow Exchange, better known by its original name, Micex, garnered enough investor interest for an initial public offering.
DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Hearst Ventures Invests in Technology 'Studio' | The investment arm of the Hearst Corporation is investing in Science, which is "somewhat akin to a start-up accelerator," AllThingsD writes. "Sources with awareness of the deal said it was close to $30 million for a stake above 20 percent."
ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Tax Proposal Raises Alarm on Wall Street | A proposal by Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, "has set off alarm bells in some Wall Street precincts, where it threatens to dismantle some cherished ways that Wall Street has invented to allow banks to profit by taking a cut of tax benefits they offer to customers," the New York Times columnist Floyd Norris writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Rule Advances to Allow Banks More Freedom in Valuing Assets | The New York Times reports: "The board that sets American accounting rules moved on Wednesday to substantially reduce the use of market values in financial statements. The move, if adopted, would give banks more freedom to value financial assets as they deem appropriate."
NEW YORK TIMES
Japan's Central Bank Defends Yen Policy | Japanese officials said their actions were done to lift the country's economy out of deflation, not to manipulate currency.
NEW YORK TIMES
Ex-Stanford Executives Sentenced to Prison | Two defendants were each sentenced on Thursday to 20 years over their role in a $7.2 billion Ponzi scheme.
REUTERS
Lehman Brothers Looks to Question JPMorgan's 'Whale' | Reuters reports: "Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc is seeking court permission to question the JPMorgan Chase & Co trader known as the "London Whale" in connection with its $8.6 billion lawsuit accusing the largest U.S. bank of driving it into bankruptcy."
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
S.E.C., Suspecting Insider Trading, Freezes Account Over Heinz Buyout
        
Herbalife a Playground for Activist Investors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (85%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); DIVESTITURES (68%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (84%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); LIBERTY GLOBAL INC (57%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (57%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (79%); ELIZABETH WARREN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



578 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Unsolicited Advice for Sally Jewell

BYLINE: ROBERT B. SEMPLE JR.


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's surprise nominee to run the Interior Department should realize that conservation does not loom large at the White House. 

 BODY:
Here is some unsolicited advice for Sally Jewell, President Obama's surprise nominee to run the Interior Department: She should read her prospective boss's State of the Union address very carefully. What she will find there is the strong suggestion that the public lands she will be asked to manage wisely and for all Americans serve one purpose and one purpose only: to produce energy, whether oil or gas or solar or wind. The idea that these lands are also valuable as national parkland, as habitat for thousands of animal and plant species, as sources of clean water, as wilderness fully protected from all but the hardiest backpackers (as Ms. Jewell is said to be) is nowhere mentioned in that speech. 
By both commission and omission, the speech gave an inkling of a political reality that Interior secretaries have, with some exceptions, faced over and over again: conservation does not loom large in the White House, most especially when the economy is sour and problems are busting out all over the world. Bruce Babbitt, Bill Clinton's Interior secretary, has said that he could hardly get a word in edgewise in the White House until Dick Morris, then the president's chief pollster, showed up in 1994 with numbers showing that the Republicans were killing themselves politically with their anti-environmental agenda. At which point Mr. Clinton became something of a born-again environmentalist, extolling the virtues of Everglades restoration, saving redwood forests, blocking mining operations near Yellowstone, establishing a dozen or so new national monuments by presidential proclamation and, generally, leaving a substantial environmental legacy.

Mr. Obama may experience a similar epiphany, making it easier for Ms. Jewell to tackle the difficult tasks that await her. The present secretary, Ken Salazar, performed admirably despite formidable obstacles, including a Republican House that shortchanged his budget and tried to circumscribe his authority, and the BP oil spill, which consumed his energies for months. He rescinded some truly awful and environmentally-destructive oil and gas leases in Utah, protected the Arctic from the unrestrained drilling envisioned by the Bush administration, restructured his department's inept and politically-driven regulatory operations, and initiated wind and solar development on public lands.
But much remains to be done. The last Congress did not establish a single new acre of permanent wilderness. The president made almost no use of his considerable power under the Antiquities Act to establish new national monuments. Mr. Salazar began but did not have time to complete a set of rules governing hydraulic fracturing on public lands. And last fall, both he and the president - plainly worried by persistently high gasoline prices, and by Mitt Romney's attacks on their energy policies - began to sound for all the world like George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in their eagerness to please the fossil-fuel crowd - a disappointing development for an administration that for the most part had deftly balanced resource extraction and conservation.
Ms. Jewell is the first woman nominee Mr. Obama has chosen for the second-term cabinet and would be only the second woman to run the Interior Department (Gale Norton, George W. Bush's first Interior boss, was the first.) As a businesswoman, she is also a break from the long line of Western politicians that have occupied the post. But there is a downside here, too. If she has no political baggage, she also has none of the political clout that a Senator or governor would bring to the job. Which is one more reason why she will need the help of a president who so far has not shown much passion for the issues she will confront.

        
Ken Salazar's Legacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); WILDERNESS (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); OIL SPILLS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); OIL & GAS LEASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); MINES & MINING (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) Interior Department; Jewell, Sally; Salazar, Ken; Wilderness Areas; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: Interior Department

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jewell, Sally; Salazar, Ken

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013



579 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Health Care as an Economic Stabilizer

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Lost in the continuing discussion of the rising costs of health care is the stabilizing effect those costs have on the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
It has become customary to see our health care sector as a burden on society. In some ways it is. We have developed a complicated system of financing the sector - one guaranteed to put stress on the budgets of many households and governments at all levels. 
Furthermore, we have structured the system so that prices for virtually any kind of health care in the United States are at least twice as high as prices for the same things in other countries. It is the main reason that health spending per capita in the United States is about double what most other nations spend. (Earlier this week, the Congressional Budget Office reported a sharp slowdown in the growth of health care costs, leaving budget experts trying to figure out whether the trend will last and how much the slower growth could help alleviate the country's long-term fiscal problems.) 
From a macroeconomic perspective, the health care sector has functioned for some time as the main economic locomotive pulling the economy along. In the last two decades, it has on a net basis than any other sector. 
Oddly, not much is made of the job-creating ability of the health care sector in political debate over health policy, in contrast to discussions of military spending, where employment always ranks high among the arguments against cuts. In October 2011, for example, Representative Buck McKeon of California, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made that point, among others, in a commentary in The Wall Street Journal, "Why Defense Cuts Don't Make Sense":
And on the economic front, if the super committee fails to reach an agreement, its automatic cuts would kill upwards of 800,000 active-duty, civilian and industrial American jobs. This would inflate our unemployment rate by a full percentage point, close shipyards and assembly lines, and damage the industrial base that our war fighters need to stay fully supplied and equipped.

Not surprisingly, in its "Defense Spending Cuts: The Impact on Economic Activity and Jobs," the National Association of Manufacturers makes the same point.
For what it is worth, economists do not view "job creation" as an industry's valuable output. Instead, when Industry A creates jobs and with them additional output, economists ask where the workers filling these jobs would have worked instead and whether the value of their output there would be smaller or larger than the output they produce in Industry A. 
But health care has one additional feature I stumbled upon while writing a recent paper: from a macroeconomic perspective, it serves as an automatic stabilizer that offsets fluctuations in the growth of gross domestic product. Corporate and personal taxes and transfer payments such as unemployment benefits or additional enrollment in Medicaid are classic forms. They actually change countercyclically with changes in G.D.P., but health spending levels remain fairly stable as G.D.P. fluctuates.
The chart below presents the year-to-year changes in total national health spending, in total private fixed investments and in the rest of the G.D.P. from 2000 to 2010. The second chart depicts the fraction of year-to-year changes in G.D.P. accounted for by year-to-year changes in national health spending, a component of G.D.P. In that chart, no column is shown for 2009, because from 2008 to 2009 private investment plummeted by $421 billion and total G.D.P. fell by $353 billion, while health spending rose by $107 billion.
The health spending data in these charts comes from Table 1 of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services publication "National Health Expenditures," which provides national health spending data for the years plotted in the graph. The data on G.D.P. and fixed private investments come from the President's Economic Report 2012, Tables B-1 and B-18. 
It can be seen that total private investment fluctuates considerably over booms and busts. By contrast, health care spending remains fairly stable over time. It does tend to growth less rapidly in times of deep recessions, but it has not declined in the United States. 
The next chart depicts the fraction of year-to-year changes in G.D.P. that is accounted for by year-to-year changes in national health spending, a component of G.D.P. In that chart, no column is shown for 2009, because from 2008 to 2009 private investment plummeted by $421 billion and total G.D.P. fell by $353 billion while health spending rose by $107 billion.
One must wonder what would have happened in the presidential elections of 2004 and 2012 if health care had not buoyed G.D.P. in the recession of 2000-1 and the recession that began in 2008. 
One does not have to be a blind devotee of the Yale economist Ray Fair's economic model of presidential elections, which relies on only a few variables to predict vote shares, to believe that one or both elections might have had different outcomes, even though both Presidents Bush and Obama inherited the recessions over which they presided. 

        
What Makes Manhattan Cost So Much
        
Podcast: Derivative Trading, Unemployment and the American Gun Business
        
What Hospitals Charge the Uninsured
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
Wealth, Spending and the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (74%); SHIPBUILDING (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (65%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: BUCK MCKEON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



580 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Common Core Practice | Brazilian Salaries, Afghan Strivers and Banana Joe

BYLINE: SARAH GROSS, JONATHAN OLSEN and KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: This week we add a new feature: suggestions for using one of the graphic organizers from our &#8220;Teaching Any Day&#8217;s Times&#8221; collection. 

 BODY:
This week we're adding something new to this feature, in which we collaborate with a classroom in New Jersey to create cross-curricular writing prompts aligned to the Common Core and grounded in Times content. 
Did you know we have a whole collection of graphic organizers you can use to teach with any day's New York Times? 
Starting this week, every Friday we'll also recommend ways to use one or more of those ideas with pieces in this week's paper.
As always, let us know what you think. 
 Common Core Practice Tasks | Week of Feb. 11-15, 2013 
 Argumentative Writing 
International: "Brazil, Where a Judge Made $361,500 in a Month, Fumes Over Pay"
Common Core Standards: R1, R3, W1, W4, RH4, WHST9
 Have you heard about that court clerk in Brazil who made $226,000 in a year? How about that librarian who made $24,000 in one month? 
These salaries, earned by privileged public employees, are real. As Brazil's once-booming economy stalls, these "super salaries," as they have become known here, are feeding newfound resentment over inequality in the nation's unwieldy bureaucracies. A new freedom of information law now requires public institutions to reveal the wages of their employees. Why does Gil Castello Branco, a director of a watchdog group, call these salary distortions an "absolute disgrace"?
 Your Task: Write an opinion piece arguing that salaries for Brazilian public employees are excessive. Incorporate at least one quote from a classmate in your op-ed.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
Determine why Brazilians are angry about "super salaries."
        
Understand the history and culture that gave rise to these salaries.
        
Interview two classmates, asking their opinion about the events detailed in the article.
        
Write down at least one quote from these interviews and be sure to include it in your op-ed.
 Extension Activity 

        
Watch this video by Simon Romero that explains how Brazil rose to become a global economic player and the challenges it faces going forward. Draw a cartoon that highlights major points from the video. For inspiration, check out the political cartoons from Brian McFadden.
 Informative Writing 
International: "Fears of the Future Haunt a Budding Generation of Afghan Strivers"
Common Core Standards: R1, R3, R10, W2, W4, W10, RRH1
 In Kabul, Afghanistan, a population explosion has led to a new class of urban elites who relish what the outside world considers to be normal standards-access to electricity, schools, rule of law, and security. However, this class of Afghans are fearful of what might happen if the United States military leaves the country. 
Graham Bowley reports that citizens from this privileged sector believe that a catastrophe will take place once "foreign money and Western militaries stop holding it up." Why are these Afghan families so afraid of the future?
 Your Task: In a well-developed paragraph, summarize the concerns that prosperous Afghans have about the future of their country.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
Use the text to find at least three reasons upper class citizens of Afghanistan are concerned about the future.
        
Pay careful attention to each speaker who is supplying your statements of support. Is it Graham Bowley or another person? Be sure to introduce or explain where your support originated from in your narrative.
 Extension Activity 

        
The New York Times followed the stories of the men and women of the First Battalion, 87th Infantry of the 10th Mountain Division during their yearlong deployment in Afghanistan in 2010. Follow the stories of these soldiers as they participate in the Afghanistan surge in the feature: A Year at War.
        
Download this map (PDF) of the Middle East from Any Day's Times and find how many countries you can identify. Do you know where Afghanistan is?
 Narrative Writing 
Sports: "No Ordinary Affenpinscher, Banana Joe is Named Best in Show" & "Westminster's Best of Breed"
Common Core Standards: R4, R7, W3, W4, WHST4
 Banana Joe, a black dog with a monkeylike face, became the first affenpinscher to win Best in Show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show on Tuesday night. 
He defeated six dogs to take the honor, including Matisse, the Portuguese water dog; Honor, a bichon frisé; Jewel, an American foxhound; Swagger, an Old English sheepdog who got most of the crowd's cheers; Oakley, a German wirehaired pointer; and Adam, a smooth fox terrier.
 Your Task: Choose two of the dogs pictured in the best of breed photo spread and imagine a conversation between the dogs you picked as they competed at Westminster this week. Write a scene including dialogue and description.
Check out this example from our student, Hannah K.
Kayla and Hayley surveyed the crowd of dogs coldly.
"Huh," Haley sniffed. "They have no chance with us in the running. How do they expect to compete with us and our gorgeous coats?"
"I don't know, darling. I simply don't know," Kayla replied.
Kayla and Haley waited at the check-in booth, Kayla smoothing her long, golden fur and Haley grooming her short, yellow fur. They had just arrived at the Westminster Dog Show and were prepared to show every other dog up. Kayla, the golden retriever, was a veteran of the show, while Haley, the yellow Labrador, was a newcomer. Both were confident of a win, and passed the time by gossiping.
"Do you see that one over there?" questioned Kayla.
"That poor thing!" responded Haley. "It looks like a mop!"
"Well at least its face isn't scrunched up like that one." Kayla countered.
At that time, both Kayla and Haley's owners urged them to move through the arena. Poised and ready to go, the golden dogs sauntered into a sure win.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
Look at the photographs of the best in breed winners. Choose your favorite dogs and imagine what their personalities might be like.
        
Brainstorm some conversation topics that might come up between dogs at the competition.
 Extension Activity 

        
A Westminster winner is both born and made. Purebred dog breeders attempt to create the best example of their breed through selective breeding for the traits the judges prize. But does the breeding of a pedigreed dog create genetic problems that a lovable mutt avoids? Read this Room for Debate about the ethics of creating purebred dogs.
 Any Day's Times: Using Our 'Reading Hard News With a Soft Touch' Organizer 
 Common Core Standards: WHST 9, RI 10
Do you know the difference between "hard" news, and "soft" news, or feature stories? 
Into which category would you put each of these recent articles?

        
Meteorite Fragments Are Said to Rain Down on Siberia
        
Cruise Line's Woes Are Far From Over as Ship Makes Port
        
In High-Tech Japan, the Fax Machines Roll On
        
Horse Meat Scandal: Is the Era of Cheap Food Over?
        
Where the Bonbons Are Buried
Answers: Numbers 1, 2 and 4 are "hard," while 3 and 5 are "soft," though these categories often blur. 
In general, hard news is breaking news, often with reporting that follows the classic "inverted pyramid" style. Soft news is news that is not time-sensitive, and that might tell a human-interest story, offer advice, or delve into the background of a related hard news event. (See our Teacher directions, a PDF, for more.)
Have students practice sorting the three pieces we chose for this week's Common Core Practice into the two categories, then extend their inquiry into sorting pieces in this week's paper. 
They might then use our Reading Hard News With a Soft Touch (PDF) to brainstorm soft news ideas from hard news stories. For example, what feature stories might you write that are inspired by the troubles of the stranded cruise ship
Alternatively, students could select and clip a hard news article from today's New York Times and tape it to the center of a larger blank page of paper. Then, in the blank area around the article itself, students could write ideas for possible feature stories based on this article.
Find more ideas for use with any day's Times »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (70%) Common Core; Lesson Plans

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013



581 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Iran: Pistachio Exports Are Suspended

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Pistachio nuts, one of Iran's most profitable products, appear to be latest victim of domestic inflation, so much so that the government has ordered a moratorium on exports as part of an effort to increase the supply at home and reduce the price, which has doubled just in the past month. The Associated Press quoted Vice President Mohammad-Reza Rahimi as saying the export ban would last for six months. But it was unclear whether the move, which he announced Friday, would reduce domestic prices, particularly in time for Nowruz, the coming New Year holiday when pistachios are in especially high demand. It was also unclear to what extent the higher price reflected the declining value of the rial, Iran's currency, which has been weakened by the effects of Western sanctions and what critics call the government's economic mismanagement. The chairman of Iran's chamber of exports, Asadollah Asgaroladi, was quoted by the Fars News Agency as calling the export moratorium a mistake that would do little to ease the price and probably cost Iran more than $500 million in lost export revenue. He was also quoted as saying the ban would only strengthen the competitiveness of pistachios from the United States, which surpassed Iran in total pistachio production last year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (55%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



582 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Credit Reports: Fixing Errors

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
About 5 percent of consumers in a new study had errors in their credit reports that could lead to them paying higher rates for loans.
The study, from the Federal Trade Commission, examined credit reports for 1,001 consumers obtained from the three major credit bureaus.
"These are eye-opening numbers for American consumers," said Howard Shelanski, Director of the agency's Bureau of Economics, in
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



583 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: In World Trade Data, Signs of a Slowdown

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
WORLD trade slowed last year, as major countries like Japan and Germany shipped exports that were worth less than those in 2011. The United States bucked the trend to some extent, but the 4.5 percent increase in exports was far smaller than the 15.8 percent jump in 2011. 
The accompanying charts show the change in exports and imports of goods in 12 large countries -- the industrialized countries in the Group of 7, in addition to Australia and four emerging economies, China, Brazil, India and South Korea. All figures are in United States dollars.
Of the 12, only China, with an 8 percent gain, posted faster growth in exports than the United States. Canada reported a small gain, but the others showed declines. In their local currencies, South Korea and India had gains, but they were erased by the decline of those currencies against the dollar.
Import totals can provide an indication of economic woes, as declining incomes cause consumers to buy less, including fewer items from abroad. Imports fell in Germany, France and particularly Italy. This week, the European Union reported that the euro zone economy declined in the fourth quarter -- the third consecutive fall. Germany's economy, which had been growing slowly, also shrank.
In the United States, imports of goods rose just 3 percent in 2012. It was the second consecutive year, and the sixth year in the last seven, that exports grew more -- or, in 2009, shrank less -- than imports. Before that, imports rose faster than exports for eight consecutive years, from 1998 through 2005.
The United States runs a trade surplus in services, not shown in the chart, but the trade deficit in goods widened slightly in 2012 to $727.9 billion. That figure is still well below the deficits from 2004 through 2008, before the credit crisis and recession caused international trade to decline rapidly in 2009. The strong gains many countries experienced in 2010 and 2011 reflected a return to more normal levels.
Exports plunged in all countries during the crisis, but the trends since then have varied. German exports in 2012 were 3 percent lower than in 2008, while French exports were off almost 8 percent. Japanese and British exports were about 2 percent higher. The United States, by contrast, reported exports of goods in 2012 that were up 20 percent from 2008, and Brazilian exports were 23 percent higher.
Those gains pale next to those of developing Asian economies. South Korean exports in 2012 were 30 percent higher than in 2008, while China bolstered its shipments by 43 percent. Indian exports were 50 percent higher.
The charts also show changes in American trade with the other 11 countries listed. Exports to most of the European countries fell in 2012, but exports to France rose sharply. France has resisted austerity more than most of its neighbors, something that may have contributed to the rise.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: U.S. Trade in 2012 Outpaced Many Other Countries: In 2012, United States exports of goods rose 4.5 percent from 2011, a faster rate of growth than that of 10 other major countries but well below the growth rate of Chinese exports. American imports rose 3 percent, but the trade deficit in goods was virtually unchanged. In six of the last seven years, the growth in American exports outpaced that of imports. The United States gained in exports despite declines in trade with some major European trading partners. (Sources: National governments, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); EURO (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



584 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: As Fisheries Struggle, Debate Heats Up Over How to Help

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
GLOUCESTER, Mass. -- B. G. Brown, a second-generation fisherman who chases cod and haddock from this port city, spent a recent morning rigging up his 31-foot commercial vessel to be manned alone. He had just lost his only crew member to the more lucrative lobster fishery, days after fishery regulators last month approved a 77 percent cut in the amount of cod that can be harvested from the Gulf of Maine waters here.
''It's kind of tricky setting hooks by yourself,'' said Mr. Brown. At 41, he is one of the younger members of the aging cadre that still plumbs these waters for groundfish, but he has reluctantly listed his boat for sale. ''I don't want to give up, and I really want to find a way to try and stay on the water, but I really just don't see a way at the moment,'' he said.
Mr. Brown is one of hundreds of fishermen caught in the net that has tightened around this industry and its seaside communities as the numbers of both fish and boats appear to be at historically low levels. Changes in the ecosystem, lingering effects of decades of overfishing and imperfect fishery management could all be to blame for the crisis, depending on whom you ask. 
The situation looked so dire that the Commerce Department declared the Northeastern commercial groundfish fishery a disaster last fall, along with three salmon fisheries in Alaska and Mississippi's blue crab and oyster fisheries.
That declaration paved the way for Congress to appropriate financial relief to those areas -- a stop-and-start process that saw $150 million attached to, then stripped from, the Hurricane Sandy relief bill. Recently, Representative John Tierney, a Democrat of Massachusetts, proposed legislation that would draw aid money from a tax on imported fish.
But the prospect of significant money coming into the community has ignited a debate here over who gets it, dividing the fishermen on the piers, who see it as a lifeline in a time of deep struggle, from city officials who agree, but would also like to spend some of it as a boost to a new shoreline economy.
On a cold winter day, Carolyn Kirk, the mayor of Gloucester, looked over a fallow stretch of the inner harbor where a white sign read ''Under Idea Development.'' This, she says, could be a research center or the home of an ocean technology company. She hopes businesses like that could help Gloucester maintain its economic identity as a port city, even as the fishing fleet shrinks.
''T-shirts, taffy, not interested,'' said Ms. Kirk, alluding to coastal communities like Hampton, N.H., that have built boardwalk economies. ''How do we take the working port and put it back to work in a different kind of way?''
To Ms. Kirk, a former management consultant who is running for a fourth two-year term, the disaster money is an opportunity to help the fishermen -- but also to diversify the economy, which she thinks could position itself at the center of the marine science and technology sector. That, she hopes, could help the city rebuild its economy as have some Massachusetts mill cities, like Lowell and Worcester, that now host biotech companies and warehouse apartments.
''If we rely on the romance associated with the fishing industry, we will lose the port, we will lose the infrastructure, we will lose our heritage and authenticity,'' Ms. Kirk said.
If Congress appropriates the full $150 million, Mayor Kirk thinks some of it should be used for direct aid to the fishing industry, ''but then let's also do some other things,'' she said.
''Programs that might attract those other uses that allow you to maintain a smaller fleet, and maintain an infrastructure for that fleet, and sit side by side,'' she explained. ''My vision is, it's more comprehensive than just taking care of one fisherman.''
Ms. Kirk is the first to admit that suggesting using any of the money for anything other than direct aid is controversial. ''I made my vision and perspective known, and I had a line out the door of fishermen banging on my door, wanting to see me right away,'' she said.
One of those fishermen was Paul Vitale. ''She's trying to get money to fix the city -- that shouldn't come out of my pocket,'' Mr. Vitale said. ''It shouldn't go to anyone but the fishermen.''
Mr. Vitale and many other fishermen here say the aid offers them a way to hold on until the stocks rebound and the industry readjusts, and is intended to preserve this storied industry and individual livelihoods. A rebuilt infrastructure will not help, some say, if there is no fleet to use it.
Russell Sherman stood at the wheel of his boat, the Lady Jane, as light faded and his crew prepared to dock for the night. He made $19,800 fishing last year, he said, and at 64 is afraid he will go into foreclosure. ''People are on the hook for money, and they're not going to be able to pay it off,'' said Mr. Sherman, who is a founding member of the Northeast Seafood Coalition, an industry group that supports fishermen and has pushed against deep cuts to the industry. ''Desperate situation.''
''This is a harbor, it has a lot of potential, a lot of research potential and stuff, but that shouldn't come out of our back. We're going to try the best we can to get as many guys through this. I won't get through it, but there will be younger fishermen who will,'' Mr. Sherman said.
Mr. Brown hopes that aid might allow him to hold on. ''I have huge bills on my permits that I had to buy just to stay in it. So whatever money I get from that, maybe it'll cover those bills, but then the rest of my expenses, just living -- and I'm not counting on it being much, usually there's too many hands in the pie, you know,'' he said.
Others hope the money can be used to reshape the industry itself. Chris Duffey, who runs the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange -- a seafood auction through which local fish are bought and sold -- has watched as commercially successful species like cod and haddock have dwindled. He says the money should be used strategically, to promote the sale of underused yet plentiful species like dogfish and skate, ''instead of having Band-Aids to put on people who cry the loudest.''
''Let's stop crying about the fish that's gone and start talking about how we can sell the fish that's here,'' Mr. Duffey said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The harbor, below, in Gloucester, Mass., part of the Northeastern fishery declared a disaster by the Commerce Department last fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Carolyn Kirk, the mayor of Gloucester, Mass., concerning her plan to diversify the area's economy (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 B. G. Brown, a second-generation fisherman (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (92%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (78%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); CITIES (78%); FISHING LAW (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); CRUSTACEANS (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); APPROVALS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); HURRICANE SANDY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



585 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Output By Factories Declined In January

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Manufacturing got off to a weak start this year in the United States as motor vehicle output tumbled in January, but a rebound in factory activity in New York State suggested that any setback would be temporary. 
In a further sign that the sluggish economic recovery remains on track, consumers were a bit more upbeat early this month even as they paid more for gasoline and a tax increase reduced their paychecks, other data on Friday showed.
''The economy is on a slowly improving course and it's got enough headwinds that we are going to see some volatility in these month-by-month numbers,'' said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds in New York.
Manufacturing output fell 0.4 percent last month, the Federal Reserve said. But production in November and December was much stronger than previously reported, and the 3.2 percent drop in auto output in January -- the largest since August -- followed two solid months, suggesting it was just a temporary pause.
''Given that most of the weakness was due to the giveback in motor vehicle production after the 11 percent surge in activity during the last two months of last year, we expect this retreat in industrial output to be temporary,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior economist at TD Securities in New York.
In a separate report, the New York Federal Reserve Bank said its Empire State general business conditions index, which gauges factory activity in the state, rose to 10.0 from minus 7.8 the month before. The index for February showed the first growth in the sector since July and the best performance since May 2012.
The rebound was driven by new orders, which hit their highest level since May 2011. Economists said the rising activity most likely reflected recovery from Hurricane Sandy, which struck the East Coast in late October.
''What we are seeing in manufacturing is that growth that had been leading the economy is now roughly keeping pace with the overall economy, and that's likely to remain the case through 2013,'' said Gus Faucher, senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.
Separately, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment rose to 76.3 in early February, from 73.8 in January.
Households drew comfort from steady job gains, which together with rising home and stock prices should help offset a recent increase in payroll taxes and underpin consumer spending.
''Consumers are getting over the fact that their paychecks are a little smaller since the beginning of the year due to the sunset of the payroll tax holiday,'' said Thomas Simons, an economist at Jefferies & Company in New York.
''This offers some encouragement that consumption will recover following a weak month in January.''
The weakness in manufacturing last month contributed to push overall industrial production down 0.1 percent. Production at the nation's mines fell 1 percent, but cold weather lifted utilities' production by 3.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



586 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: When the Red Orchestra Fell Silent

BYLINE: By SHAREEN BLAIR BRYSAC

 BODY:
On Feb. 15, 1943, a green police wagon left Charlottenburg Women's Prison in Berlin, making its way through streets pockmarked by Allied bombs to the infamous execution center at Plötzensee. The handcuffed prisoner, a 40-year-old American woman, scholar, journalist, lecturer, teacher and translator named Mildred Fish Harnack, was led to a first-floor death cell. She was beheaded the next day.
Then, for many years, Mildred's reputation -- like those of many who resisted Hitler in Germany before and during World War II -- became hostage to the Cold War. In the West she was depicted as a Soviet spy, in the East as a Marxist saint. But she was neither, and only after the Berlin Wall came down and secret files were declassified was Mildred's humanity restored, as poignantly defined by her final hours. 
She spent them translating lines of Goethe into English and receiving a welcome visit from Harald Poelchau, the prison pastor who had borne witness to the execution of a thousand resisters -- including men and women belonging to the Harnack-Schulze-Boysen group or those caught in the failed July 20 conspiracy to assassinate Hitler.
They discussed the Bible, then Goethe, and finally Poelchau described her husband's brave end three days before Christmas. Arvid Harnack's petition to see Mildred before his execution had been denied. During his final hour, Arvid asked if the chaplain could recite ''Prologue in Heaven'' from Faust. And as Poelchau prepared to leave, Arvid asked him to join in singing the chorale, ''I Pray to the Power of Love.''
In his last letter to his wife, Arvid wrote that ''despite everything,'' he looked back on a life in which ''the darkness was outweighed by the light'' largely because of their marriage. He recalled that their ''intense work'' meant that their life was never easy.
After Hitler's rise to power, the couple had founded an underground group that helped imperiled Jews, assisted forced laborers, documented and archived Nazi acts of violence, especially in occupied areas in the East, and distributed anti-Hitler pamphlets.
Mildred used her work as an English instructor to recruit resisters to travel abroad to assist potential émigrés. Her close friendship with Martha Dodd, the daughter of the American ambassador, William Dodd, enabled her to obtain elusive visas to the United States.
Mildred had met Arvid, a German student in the United States on a Rockefeller Fellowship, while a graduate student at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Following their marriage, the couple in 1929 settled in Germany, where they gathered a study group of artists, writers, academics and government officials. After 1933, this literary salon became a network of resisters, and in 1940, Arvid Harnack established contacts with Soviet intelligence
The group, subsequently named ''Red Orchestra'' by the Gestapo to underscore its ties to Soviets, was led by Arvid, by then an official in the Economics Ministry, and by Lt. Harro Schulze-Boysen, a member of Hermann Goering's staff.
For nine months, the group provided vital military information to Moscow in the run-up to the June 1941 invasion of the Soviet Union. During the same period, Arvid Harnack met regularly with the first secretary of the American embassy, Donald Heath, for long walks in Berlin's parks and forests, using their wives as cover. Thus Arvid kept Washington informed on the state of the Third Reich's economy, its trade agreements, rearmament and war plans.
On two trips to the United States in 1938 and 1939, Arvid Harnack (with Heath's help) met with Treasury officials and passed information about German assets in the United States.
After the Germans intercepted a radio communication, 120 persons were arrested by the Gestapo. Mildred and Arvid were arrested on September 7, 1942. After a secret trial, Arvid was sentenced to death. Mildred received a sentence of six years hard labor for ''the preparation of high treason and espionage.'' Hitler heard this after the German defeat at Stalingrad and refused to confirm the sentence. She was retried and sentenced to death.
Mildred's last words, before she was executed on Feb. 16, 1943, were: ''And I have loved Germany so much.''
For many years after the war, resisters remained suspect in West Germany, unwelcome reminders that opposition had been possible. Members of the Harnack-Schulze-Boysen group were dismissed as Soviet spies. By contrast, East Germans celebrated them as anti-fascist heroes who lent a measure of legitimacy to the Soviet-imposed regime.
After German reunification in 1990, I was able to obtain intelligence files from the United States, Russia and several East German archives, and to interview relatives and survivors. German scholars and I were able to piece together material that allowed a more nuanced account of the activities of the group. The ''Red Orchestra'' group came to be known as the ''Harnack-Schulze-Boysen'' group.
Two streets in Berlin and in Giessen -- where Mildred received her doctorate -- were named after her; memorial plaques dedicated to both Harnacks have appeared on public buildings in the German capital.
In 2007, the German artist Franz Rudolf Knubel, with the help of students of the Mildred Harnack High School in Berlin, created a memorial exhibit inspired by Mildred's translations of Goethe. The exhibit was shown in Berlin and other German cities, as well as at the Hillel Foundation in Madison and at Milwaukee's Jewish Museum. In 2011, Wisconsin Public Television aired a one-hour documentary film about her. Sept. 16, the date of her birth, has been designated Mildred Harnack Day in Wisconsin.
Many letters by members of the group have now been published. They include Schulze-Boysen's final letter to his parents. ''It is common in Europe for spiritual seeds to be sown with blood,'' he wrote. ''Perhaps we were simply a few fools; but when the end is this near, one perhaps has the right to a bit of completely personal historical illusion.''
Shareen Blair Brysac is the author, among other works, of ''Resisting Hitler: Mildred Harnack and the Red Orchestra.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WRITERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ESPIONAGE (74%); WITNESSES (73%); RELIGION (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); ASSASSINATION (52%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); PETITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (75%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



587 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Signals Support for Japan's Expansionary Policy

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, strongly indicated on Friday that the United States did not intend to censure Japan for weakening its currency over the last several months, something that has aided Japanese exporters and angered its competitors.
Mr. Bernanke spoke in brief introductory remarks at a conference in Moscow of the Group of 20, a club of the world's largest industrial and emerging economies. 
At issue are stimulus programs backed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is also maintaining pressure on the Bank of Japan to keep interest rates near zero and flood the economy with money to support Japanese manufacturers. As a result, the yen has lost about 15 percent of its value against the dollar over the last three months, meaning products made in Japan, like some Sony electronics or models of Toyota cars, are relatively cheaper.
Japan's maneuver touched off fears that other countries and the European Union might follow suit in a so-called currency war, which has been the main topic of the Group of 20 meeting here, which runs through Saturday.
Initially, it seemed the world's largest economies might agree on a firm statement at the end of the meeting to condemn a currency war, or competitive devaluations. This tactic is now widely seen as a beggar-thy-neighbor approach to creating growth that would ultimately harm a global recovery and is understood to be a cause of the lingering nature of the depression in the 1930s.
Mr. Bernanke, an advocate of the loose monetary policy in the United States known as quantitative easing, but also a student of the Great Depression, suggested a distinction should be drawn based on the intention of the monetary easing.
''The United States is using domestic policies to advance domestic agendas,'' Mr. Bernanke said, speaking in a gilded and colonnaded chamber in the Kremlin to a round table of the world's leading central bankers and finance ministers, in addition to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
''We believe that by strengthening the U.S. economy, we are helping to strengthen the global economy as well,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''We welcome similar approaches by other countries.'' He said he endorsed an earlier statement at the meeting from Christine Lagarde, the director of the International Monetary Fund, who had said the risk of a currency war was ''overblown.''
The global recovery has become unbalanced, Ms. Lagarde said in her statement to the group. Developed countries are swooning, while the emerging markets bounced back quickly, and yet such countries, including Russia, have been critical of the stimulus efforts of the developed nations. Japan's devaluation of the yen is ''sound policy,'' she said.
''The international monetary system can function effectively if each country follows the right policies for their domestic economies,'' she said, ultimately lifting the tide of the global marketplace.
Ms. Lagarde did caution that too bald a ploy to prop up exports would not count as a justified weakening of a currency.
Because loose monetary policy encourages economic growth while also helping exports, critics of such tactics say these are distinctions without a difference.
Germany's finance minister offered a contrarian view, saying that countries should not use easy money to avoid reducing their deficits over the long term, with measures like reducing government waste.
The Russian finance minister, Anton Siluanov, the host of the meeting, has also been pushing for a strong statement against competitive devaluations in the final communiqué from the forum, expected Saturday. Mr. Siluanov said in his opening remarks that a statement endorsing market mechanisms to set exchange rates would ''find a place in the communiqué.''
That reiterated the position of a statement issued by the Group of 7 earlier this week. But it now seems a watered-down version is more likely.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Lagarde, chief of the International Monetary Fund, said Japan's efforts to defeat deflation was ''sound policy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); SHINZO ABE (79%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (75%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



588 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: It's Scotch, but the Owners Live Elsewhere

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BALLINDALLOCH, SCOTLAND -- George S. Grant markets malt whisky made in the shadow of the snow-capped Ben Rinnes, the same spot where, five generations ago, his family bought a distillery in 1865 for £511.
Nowadays the family's Glenfarclas malt is produced in a modern, highly automated plant, and is exported to the United States, Taiwan and other countries. But the profit returns here to the valley of the River Spey in the heart of Scotland's whisky country. And that repatriated money is what makes Glenfarclas such a rarity.
''Within a 20-mile radius of where we are now, there are 35 distilleries,'' said Mr. Grant, the director of sales at Glenfarclas. But only a handful of the operations within that 30-kilometer radius remain in Scottish hands. The rest are owned by big multinationals -- most notably Diageo, based in London, and the French company Pernod Ricard -- which book their profits and employ many of their staff members elsewhere. 
In fact Mr. Grant, 36, says he knows of no other whisky maker apart from Glenfarclas that has its sales and marketing operation based at the distillery in this scenic part of Scotland. Though he says relations with the big non-Scottish players are good -- they buy some of Glenfarclas's output for their blended whiskies, after all -- Mr. Grant notes that what sets his family's company apart is its place in the community and the fact that ''we've been here forever.''
To be sold as Scotch whisky, the liquor must be produced in Scotland. The rest of the business can be elsewhere, though, and it often is.
Non-Scottish companies control about four-fifths of the £4.2 billion, or $5.6 billion, global market for Scotch, which is being driven by growth from emerging markets. The United States is still the biggest export market by value, at £600 million last year. But Scotch whisky exports to Brazil grew 48 percent last year, those to Taiwan 45 percent and to Venezuela 33 percent, according to the Scotch Whisky Association.
John Kay, a prominent economist and former economic adviser to the Scottish government, says that too little of the money from those exports ends up in the Scottish economy.
He has proposed a £1 ''bottle tax,'' levied on all Scotch production, which would be paid by the distillers. The precise value of such a tax is hard to predict, but the Scotch Whisky Association says that about 1.3 billion bottles were exported last year, representing about 95 percent of total production.
But much of the monetary benefit goes to governments that impose duties on the product wherever it is sold.
''A lot of money is being made out of this product by foreign governments and foreign companies,'' Mr. Kay said. The bottle tax, he said, would be a way to keep some of that money in Scotland.
With a referendum looming next year on Scottish independence, the idea has prompted a new debate about the country's economic assets. It has even prompted comparisons between the North Sea natural gas and oil extracted from Scotland's coastal waters and the Scotch distilled on its heather-covered moorlands and windswept islands.
Whisky supports about 10,000 jobs in Scotland, including those of people working in bottling plants, and in total about 36,000 in Britain across the whole of the economy, including haulers and packaging companies, the Scotch Whisky Association says. But the distilleries themselves are not big job creators. Although the most modern ones operate 24 hours a day, they tend to employ no more than a dozen people.
Patrick Harvie, a member of the Scottish Parliament in Glasgow who is responsible for enterprise for the Scottish Green party, said it was ''good to see others starting to question the benefits to Scotland of allowing our national assets to be controlled by global corporations.''
Mr. Harvie drew a parallel with a debate over the tax liability of companies, like Starbucks, that use their multinational status to reduce corporate tax bills. Diageo says that it pays about 18 percent of tax on its profit on average but does not say where those taxes are paid.
''Our most famous whisky brands are registered abroad and the owners' tax arrangements are less than clear,'' Mr. Harvie said.
For all that, though, there is little indication that the Scottish government plans to adopt the bottle tax. For one thing, it is already fighting legal challenges to a plan to place minimum prices on alcohol as a way of discouraging binge drinking.
A bottle tax plan would very likely set off a separate, titanic legal and political fight with one of Scotland's biggest industries. The tax idea ''only has merit for those who wish to undermine the Scotch whisky industry's competitiveness in the global market and undermine its growth prospects,'' said Campbell Evans, director of government and consumer affairs at the Scotch Whisky Association.
''Apart, perhaps, from the oil and gas sector, nobody else is investing in Scotland'' as this industry is, Mr. Evans said.
Big companies like Diageo and Chivas Brothers, owned by Pernod Ricard, are happy to show off their investments in Speyside and argue that the economic effects are felt beyond distillery payrolls.
Diageo's ultramodern Roseisle plant, which produces each year about 10 million liters, or 2.6 million gallons, of spirit -- the alcohol from which whisky is made -- employs only about 10 frontline staff members to keep operations running continuously at its five-story complex.
But the company points to wider economic benefits: to farmers who provide barley, to local contractors who help equip and service the plant, and to small businesses that benefit from the tens of thousands of tourists who visit distilleries in the region each year.
''Diageo sustains over 4,000 direct jobs in the Scottish economy across 50 sites, many of which are in remote and rural areas of Scotland,'' Peter Lederer, director of Diageo in Scotland, said in a statement.
''We also make a major indirect contribution to the Scottish economy,'' he added, saying that Diageo was the biggest single purchaser of grain from Scottish farmers and purchased £400 million of goods from each year from suppliers based in Scotland.
A bottle tax, he said, would be ''potentially deeply damaging to the industry and to the prospects for investment and growth in the future.''
At Glenfarclas, which produces about 3.5 million liters of spirit a year, Mr. Grant argues that a £1 bottle tax would hit Scottish-owned operations as much as foreign ones.
For him, the big multinationals are both a blessing and a curse. On the one hand they use their sheer size to negotiate better deals with suppliers and retailers, driving down their own costs in ways Glenfarclas does not have the clout to match, and dominating British supermarket shelves.
But Glenfarclas also sells some of its production to the multinationals, which they use for blended whisky -- a mix of malt whisky, made from malted barley, with whisky that can be made from wheat or other grains.
The big companies have also helped to open new export markets, promoting whisky to a younger generation of drinkers in Asia and Latin America and enabling smaller distilleries to capitalize on a boom they never could have created on their own.
So far, swimming nimbly with the big fish has enabled Glenfarclas to remain a family firm. And despite blank-check offers from multinationals, Mr. Grant said, the operation is not for sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTILLED LIQUORS (92%); DISTILLERIES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MALT MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%)

COMPANY: PERNOD RICARD SA (83%); DIAGEO PLC (56%)

TICKER: RI (PAR) (83%); DGE (PAR) (56%); DGE (LSE) (56%); DEO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



589 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Flat In Recovery, But Not For the 1%

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Incomes rose more than 11 percent for the top 1 percent of earners during the economic recovery, but not at all for everybody else, according to new data.
The numbers, produced by Emmanuel Saez, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, show overall income growing by just 1.7 percent over the period. But there was a wide gap between the top 1 percent, whose earnings rose by 11.2 percent, and the other 99 percent, whose earnings declined by 0.4 percent.
Mr. Saez, a winner of the John Bates Clark Medal, an economic laurel considered second only to the Nobel, concluded that ''the Great Recession has only depressed top income shares temporarily and will not undo any of the dramatic increase in top income shares that has taken place since the 1970s.'' 
The disparity between top earners and everybody else can be attributed, in part, to differences in how the two groups make their money. The wealthy have benefited from a four-year boom in the stock market, while high rates of unemployment have continued to hold down the income of wage earners.
''We have in the middle basically three decades of problems compounded by high unemployment,'' said Lawrence Mishel of the Economic Policy Institute, a left-of-center research group in Washington. ''That high unemployment we know depresses wage growth throughout the wage scale, but more so for the bottom than the middle and the middle than the top.''
In his analysis, Mr. Saez said he saw no reason that the trend would reverse for 2012, which has not yet been analyzed. For that year, the ''top 1 percent income will likely surge, due to booming stock prices, as well as retiming of income to avoid the higher 2013 top tax rates,'' Mr. Saez wrote, referring to income tax increases for the wealthy that were passed by Congress in January. The incomes of the other ''99 percent will likely grow much more modestly,'' he said.
Excluding earnings from investment gains, the top 10 percent of earners took 46.5 percent of all income in 2011, the highest proportion since 1917, Mr. Saez said, citing a large body of work on earnings distribution over the last century that he has produced with the economist Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of Economics.
Concern for the declining wages of working Americans and persistent high levels of inequality featured heavily in President Obama's State of the Union address this week. He proposed raising the federal minimum wage to $9 from $7.25 as one way to ameliorate the trend, a proposal that might lift the earnings of 15 million low-income workers by the end of 2015.
''Let's declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth, no one who works full time should have to live in poverty,'' Mr. Obama said in his address to Congress.
Mr. Obama's economic advisers say that he has been animated by the country's yawning levels of inequality, and the administration has put forward several proposals to address the gap. Those include higher taxes on a small group of the wealthiest families and an expansion of aid to lower- and middle-income families through programs like the Affordable Care Act.
The data analyzed by Mr. Piketty and Mr. Saez shows that income inequality -- as measured by the proportion of income taken by the top 1 percent of earners -- reached a modern high just before the recession hit in 2009. The financial crisis and its aftermath hit wealthy families hard. But since then, their earnings have snapped back, if not to their 2007 peak.
That is not true for average working families. After accounting for inflation, median family income has declined over the last two years. In 2011, it stagnated for the poorest and dropped for those in the middle of the income distribution, census data show. Median household income, which was $50,054 in 2011, is about 9 percent lower than it was in 1999, after accounting for inflation.
Measures of inequality differ depending on whether they are measured after or before taxes, and whether or not they include government transfers like Social Security payments, food stamps and other credits.
Research led by the Cornell economist Richard V. Burkhauser, for instance, sought to measure the economic health of middle-class households including income, taxes, transfer programs and benefits like health insurance. It found that from 1979 to 2007, median income grew by about 18.2 percent over all rather than by 3.2 percent counting income alone.
In an interview, Mr. Burkhauser said his numbers measured ''how are the resources that person has to live on changing over time,'' whereas Mr. Piketty and Mr. Saez's numbers measure ''how are different people being rewarded in the marketplace.''
''That's a fair question to ask, but it's a very different question to ask than, 'What resources do Americans have?' '' Mr. Burkhauser said. Notably, many of the Obama administration's progressive policies have been aimed at blunting the effects of income inequality, rather than tackling income inequality itself.
Mr. Saez has advocated much more aggressive policies aimed at income inequality. ''Falls in income concentration due to economic downturns are temporary unless drastic regulation and tax policy changes are implemented,'' Mr. Saez said in his analysis.
The recent policy changes, including tax increases and financial regulatory reform, he wrote, ''are not negligible but they are modest relative to the policy changes that took place coming out of the Great Depression. Therefore, it seems unlikely that U.S. income concentration will fall much in the coming years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at the Linamar Corporation in Arden, N.C., wants to raise the minimum wage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAX INCREASES (67%); TAX LAW (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



590 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Equities End Mixed on Consumer and Sales Reports

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed on Friday, lifted by a strong report on consumer sentiment but pulled down in late trading by what was said to be an internal report of weak Walmart sales at the start of February.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell in late trading, with Wal-Mart Stores leading the way down after the report on February sales, but the index remained higher for the week and extended its streak of weekly gains to seven. The last such run was from December 2010 to January 2011.
Equities were little changed for much of the session, with investors finding few reasons to make big bets after an extended rally on Wall Street. 
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 2/32, to 99 31/32, and the yield rose to 2.01 percent from 2 percent late Thursday.
Wal-Mart Stores dropped 2.2 percent to $69.30 after Bloomberg News reported a weak start to February sales, citing internal company e-mails. The stock was the biggest decliner on the Dow Jones industrial average. The S.& P. retail index fell 0.5 percent.
''When a retailer of this size comes out with this kind of lousy news, the whole market can fall off, especially on a Friday afternoon,'' said Mike Shea, of Direct Access Partners in New York. ''However, I'm not worried that this is indicative of any larger macro issue with retail.''
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 8.37 points, or 0.06 percent, at 13,981.76. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.59 points, or 0.1 percent, at 1,519.79. The Nasdaq composite index was down 6.63 points, or 0.21 percent, at 3,192.03.
For the week, the Dow and Nasdaq fell 0.1 percent each, while the S.& P. rose 0.1 percent.
''There's no news that suggests the strong underpinning for stocks isn't appropriate,'' said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. ''We may have gotten ahead of ourselves, but there's also an absence of bad news.''
Many investors are looking ahead to a debate in Washington over the automatic, across-the-board spending cuts put in place as part of a larger Congressional budget fight. The cuts are set to kick in on March 1 unless lawmakers agree to an alternative.
''This had been far enough out to not yet become an impediment for stocks, but it will start to move into the forefront,'' Mr. Luschini said.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said manufacturing in New York State expanded for the first time in seven months. A preliminary Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan reading of consumer sentiment rose, beating expectations. But manufacturing fell in January.
Wall Street's gains thus far in 2013 have been driven largely by strong corporate earnings. A surge in merger and acquisition activity, with more than $158 billion in deals announced so far in 2013, has given further support to the equity market as it points to healthy valuations and bets on the economic outlook.
Herbalife shares cut earlier gains to rise 1.2 percent on Friday, to $38.74. Late on Thursday, the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn disclosed that he owned 13 percent of Herbalife and was ready to put it in play.
MeadWestvaco, a packaging company, climbed 12.5 percent to $35.65, making it the biggest percentage gainer on the S.& P. index, after the activist investor Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management said it had bought about 1.6 million shares of the company.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); RETAILERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



591 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: In His Hometown of Chicago, a Policy Speech by Obama Turns Personal

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- President Obama came home on Friday for a policy speech that inevitably turned personal: He spoke of teaching law nearby, meeting his wife, Michelle, raising their daughters less than a mile away and then, most recently, watching the first lady return for the funeral of a vivacious teenager gunned down in a park.
Less than two minutes into his remarks at the mostly African-American Hyde Park Academy high school, Mr. Obama paid tribute to 15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton, a girl who had been just a bit older than his daughter Malia, but who now represents Mr. Obama's private connection to the gun violence that he has only begun to address in his second term. 
Ms. Pendleton had attended a nearby high school until she was caught in what the police say was gang gunfire just days after she had marched in the president's second inaugural parade. In the audience here were her parents, Cleopatra Cowley-Pendleton and Nathaniel Pendleton Sr., the latest involuntary activists for gun safety. On Tuesday, they sat with Mrs. Obama in the House gallery for Mr. Obama's State of the Union address. When the president recognized them here on Friday, there was awkward applause, as if people were unsure whether losing a child was reason to clap.
''Unfortunately, what happened to Hadiya is not unique,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's not unique to Chicago. It's not unique to this country. Too many of our children are being taken away from us.''
He spoke of Newtown, Conn., where 20 first graders and 6 of their guardians were massacred two months ago. But as profoundly tragic as their murders were, he said, ''last year there were 443 murders with a firearm on the streets of this city, and 65 of those victims were 18 and under. So that's the equivalent of a Newtown every four months. And that's precisely why the overwhelming majority of Americans are asking for some common-sense proposals to make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun.''
Mr. Obama was met at the airport by Rahm Emanuel, Chicago's mayor and the president's first White House chief of staff. At the school, Mr. Obama's speech was delayed while they privately talked with 16 students enrolled in a youth antiviolence program -- some of them voluntarily and others not, according to officials.
The hometown visit was a risky political balancing act for Mr. Obama. He is under pressure to speak to the rise in gun homicides in Chicago, the nation's third-largest city, just as he has comforted towns like Newtown and Aurora, Colo., which have seen mass shootings. ''We need him to come here and address this gun violence. It's terrible. I've got kids,'' said a cabdriver, Serge Diop, when he learned that a passenger's destination was the site for the president's remarks.
Yet for Mr. Obama's former aide and friend Mr. Emanuel, the murder rate has become a crisis despite a generally positive mayoral record. The president's stop, with the national news media following him, inevitably stoked attention across the country.
Mr. Obama had come for the third of a three-city swing to promote new antipoverty policy initiatives he announced on Tuesday in his State of the Union address -- his ''ladders of opportunity'' for helping more Americans into the middle class. But the gun issue was inescapable.
Hyde Park Academy is roughly a mile from both Mr. Obama's house and, in another direction, from the park where Ms. Pendleton was shot in the back. Immediately she became a tragic symbol not only for the city but the nation.
While the impetus for Mr. Obama's postelection call for legislative action against gun violence was a string of mass murders like Newtown, her death came to represent the urban, often gang-related killings that are more typical of the nation's homicide statistics. But they mount perhaps one or two at a time, drawing little notice in more affluent communities. At Ms. Pendleton's funeral, her godfather urged that her death not be politicized, but even he said that she stood for victims of random gun violence nationwide.
Mr. Obama's visit followed trips to North Carolina and Georgia to promote the antipoverty proposals -- among them initiatives to spur manufacturing innovation centers, provide incentives to cities and states to make preschool available to all 4-year-olds and raise the federal minimum wage.
Here he offered new details about an initiative to select 20 communities nationwide as laboratories for better coordinated federal, local, nonprofit and private-sector investments to revitalize long-distressed areas. The communities would be selected over the next several years, administration officials said, from urban and rural applicants that show persistent woes like high joblessness and crime rates, low rates of high school graduation and college attendance and health concerns among residents.
For these so-called Promise Zones, Mr. Obama is seeking tax breaks for those who make capital investments in the zones and for employers who hire unemployed residents. But Congress has not passed similar tax incentives that Mr. Obama proposed in the past two years, testifying to the legislative hurdles for the president's second-term agenda.
In describing his initiative, Mr. Obama spoke in unusually personal terms, acknowledging that laws alone cannot prevent crime or strengthen families. He said marriage should be encouraged and child support laws changed to get more men working and engaged with their children.
''As the son of a single mom who gave everything she had to raise me, with the help of my grandparents, you know, I turned out O.K.,'' he said. Nonetheless, he said, ''I wish I had had a father who was around and involved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Mayor Rahm Emanuel, his former White House chief of staff, during a visit on Friday to Hyde Park Academy in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); FIREARMS (88%); MURDER (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); MAYORS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); HOMICIDE (68%); GANGS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



592 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Getting Preschool Education Right

 BODY:
Even before the cost estimates and program details have been made public, President Obama's proposal for expanding high-quality preschool education has encountered criticism from House Republicans. Yet decades of research has shown that well-designed preschool programs more than pay for themselves by giving young children the skills they need to move ahead. The challenge at the federal level will be to make sure that taxpayer dollars flow to proven, high-quality programs instead of being wasted on subsidies for glorified day care. 
Countless studies have found that preschool education has real value, both for the children and for society as a whole. But design is obviously crucial. The most famous and frequently cited program was conducted at Perry Elementary School in Ypsilanti, Mich., during the 1960s, where the teachers focused on a creative process in which low-income children were encouraged to plan, initiate and discuss their learning activities. In addition to teaching the children for 2.5 hours during the school day, the teachers regularly visited their homes to reinforce the lessons and forge partnership with parents.
Followed into adulthood, the Perry students were found to have lower dropout and arrest rates and higher incomes than those who had not attended preschool. Research led by James Heckman, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, concluded in 2009 that each $1 invested in the Perry program had returned a value of $7 to $12 to society.
Unfortunately, preschool researchers say that few programs meet the standards of the Perry system. With mediocrity the norm for many programs -- and with many educators habituated to mediocrity -- a new federal preschool initiative is likely to come under heavy pressure to compromise downward.
Mr. Obama called for just the opposite in his State of the Union address on Tuesday. He wants to upgrade the preschool system through a cost-sharing partnership with the states to expand high-quality public preschool to all 4-year-olds from families at or below 200 percent of the poverty level. The proposal also contains an incentive for states to broaden participation to include additional middle-class families.
To be eligible for the program, the states would have to offer programs with well-trained teachers paid comparably to those teaching in kindergarten-through-12 classrooms, small classes and rigorous statewide standards for early learning.
The White House has yet to release cost estimates or say how the program would be financed. But officials have said the money could be found in the budget, and the program would not add to the deficit.
Given the current national emphasis on strengthening the public schools -- and preparing young people to compete in the new economy -- expanding preschool education would seem to be an obvious bipartisan goal. Instead of saying ''no'' right out of the gate, Mr. Obama's critics should recognize the value in his proposal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (94%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



593 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: The Myth Of the Rich Who Flee From Taxes

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
Last month, Vladimir V. Putin hugged his newly minted fellow Russian citizen, the actor Gerard Depardieu, posing for cameras at the Black Sea port of Sochi. ''I adore your country,'' Mr. Depardieu gushed -- especially its 13 percent flat tax on personal income.
Sochi may not be St. Tropez, but it does have winter temperatures in the 60s and even palm trees. Mr. Putin's deputy prime minister confidently predicted a ''mass migration of wealthy Europeans to Russia.''
Here in the United States, the three-time Masters champion Phil Mickelson recently walked off the 18th hole at Humana Challenge and said he might move from California because the state increased its top income tax rate to 13.3 percent from 10.3 percent.
''Hey Phil,'' Gov. Rick Perry of Texas wrote in a Twitter message, ''Texas is home to liberty and low taxes ... we would love to have you as well!!'' Tiger Woods later said that he had left California for Florida for just that reason years ago. Mr. Mickelson can ''vote with his Gulfstream,'' a Wall Street Journal editorial noted, and warned California to ''expect a continued migration.'' 
It's an article of faith among low-tax advocates that income tax increases aimed at the rich simply drive them away. As Stuart Varney put it on Fox News: ''Look at what happened in Britain. They raised the top tax rate to 50 percent, and two-thirds of the millionaires disappeared in the next tax year. Same things are happening in France. People are leaving where the top tax rate is 75 percent. Same thing happened in Maryland a few years ago. New millionaire's tax, the millionaires disappeared. You've got exactly the same thing in California.''
That, at least, is what low-tax advocates want us to think, and on its face, it seems to make sense. But it's not the case. It turns out that a large majority of people move for far more compelling reasons, like jobs, the cost of housing, family ties or a warmer climate. At least three recent academic studies have demonstrated that the number of people who move for tax reasons is negligible, even among the wealthy.
Cristobal Young, an assistant professor of sociology at Stanford, studied the effects of recent tax increases in New Jersey and California.
''It's very clear that, over all, modest changes in top tax rates do not affect millionaire migration,'' he told me this week. ''Neither tax increases nor tax cuts on the rich have affected their migration rates.''
The notion of tax flight ''is almost entirely bogus -- it's a myth,'' said Jon Shure, director of state fiscal studies at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group in Washington. ''The anecdotal coverage makes it seem like people are leaving in droves because of high taxes. They're not. There are a lot of low-tax states, and you don't see millionaires flocking there.''
Despite the allure of low taxes, Mr. Depardieu hasn't been seen in Russia since picking up his passport and seems to be hedging his bets by maintaining a residence in Belgium. Meanwhile, Russian billionaires are snapping up trophy properties in high-tax London, New York and Beverly Hills, Calif.
''I don't hear about many billionaires moving to Moscow,'' said Robert Tannenwald, a lecturer in economic policy at Brandeis University and former Federal Reserve economist. Along with Nicholas Johnson, he and Mr. Shure are co-authors of ''Tax Flight Is a Myth,'' a 2011 research paper.
Of course, some people do move for tax reasons, especially wealthy retirees, athletes and other celebrities without strong ties to high-tax locations, like jobs and families. In renouncing his French citizenship, Mr. Depardieu follows other French celebrities, the chef Alain Ducasse, the singer Johnny Hallyday and Yannick Noah, a former tennis star. Several Paris hedge fund managers have decamped to London and the fashion mogul Bernard Arnault applied for Belgian citizenship, though not, he has said, for tax reasons.
Stars like Mr. Depardieu and Mr. Mickelson certainly have incentives to move. Mr. Depardieu complained that he paid 85 percent of his income in taxes in France last year and has paid 145 million euros over 45 years. France has a top rate of 41 percent as well as a wealth tax, and the Socialist president, François Hollande, is trying to impose a temporary surcharge of 75 percent on incomes over 1 million euros. Mr. Mickelson earned more than $60 million last year, Sports Illustrated estimates, which means the three-percentage-point California tax increase could add up to an additional $1.8 million in tax.
Gregory Mankiw, an economist at Harvard, said that tax rates did affect migration, at least of certain groups. ''Rich people can pretty much live anywhere,'' he said. ''If you're a retired person trying to decide between Palm Beach and Santa Barbara, the tax difference between Florida and California is huge. If you're an academic choosing between Stanford and Harvard, it might be a factor.'' (Massachusetts has a flat income tax rate of 5.3 percent.)
For this affluent and mobile group, it doesn't much matter where their official residence is. Mr. Mickelson and Mr. Woods travel the tournament circuit throughout the year. Very wealthy people often have multiple homes in different locations, even different countries, and can shuttle among them to avoid local taxes. One reason so many luxury apartments in Manhattan sit empty is that their foreign owners can't spend more than half the year in them without incurring United States income tax liability.
A star like Mr. Depardieu ''can go to Paris whenever he wants,'' Mr. Shure noted. Professor Tannenwald agreed. ''People who are very rich, who are retired or who aren't tied to a particular location, do change their residency at a high rate based on tax differentials.''
But there aren't many people like that. ''Tax-induced flight is rare,'' Professor Tannenwald said. ''The rate of interstate migration is low to begin with. To the extent that people leave a state, or shun a potential destination, they do so primarily for other reasons, such as to find more affordable housing, better job prospects or a more attractive climate.''
Low-tax advocates like Mr. Varney point to Maryland as a prime example of tax flight. Maryland created a millionaire tax bracket in 2008 with a top rate of 6.25 percent. But a year later, the state reported that the number of millionaires filing returns had dropped by a third, and that total tax revenue from the group fell despite the rate increase. After a chorus of media criticism -- ''Millionaires flee Maryland taxes'' (The Washington Examiner) and ''Millionaires Go Missing'' (The Wall Street Journal) -- the state legislature let the increase expire in 2011.
But a study by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonprofit research group in Washington, found that nearly all the decline in millionaires was the result of a drop in incomes largely attributable to the stock market plunge and recession, and not to migration -- ''down and not out,'' as the study put it.
In 2009, just 364 people in the millionaire bracket moved from Maryland or died (the data didn't distinguish between the two) -- about the same percentage who disappeared in 2007, before any tax increase. And in 2009, more than 1,500 taxpayers entered the millionaire rolls, either because they earned more or moved to Maryland that year. That data ''directly contravenes the notion that changes in tax policy were discouraging the affluent from working hard and earning substantial sums of money, or driving them out of the state altogether,'' the study concluded.
Professor Young said his study looked at every millionaire tax record filed in California over the last 20 years, and ''neither tax increases nor tax cuts on the rich have affected their migration rates.'' He said that the two major tax overhauls before the recent increase didn't have any effect on migration rates of millionaires. ''Among the very richest, people making more than $2 million, out-migration actually declined slightly after the 2005 millionaire tax,'' he said.
Why didn't they move? Professor Young said that for most people, even the very affluent, it's not that easy, since most successful businesses and high-paying jobs are tied to specific locations. In addition, ''entrepreneurship and earning power are clustered in highly competitive regions like Silicon Valley, Los Angeles and New York City,'' he said. ''People making over a million are typically close to their peak income years, and are enjoying the fruits of long-term career investments. This is hard to walk away from.''
His research in New Jersey found that, while some people left, any lost revenue was more than made up for by added revenue from people who stayed. He estimated that New Jersey's 2004 tax increase on incomes over $500,000 raised nearly $1 billion a year, ''with little cost in terms of tax flight.''
Mr. Shure added, ''I can say flatly that no state has ever raised taxes and lost money.''
Yet the tax flight myth remains surprisingly persistent, fanned by media coverage of celebrities, who are among those most likely to have the means and motive to choose a home based on tax considerations. ''You can always find an anecdote.'' Mr. Shure said. ''Many people want this to be true as a way to discourage tax increases. The rich are always trying to find ways to make the middle class make their arguments for them.''
The Your Money column, which normally appears on this page, will return next week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Vladimir Putin granted a Russian passport to the French actor Gerard Depardieu after the actor's spat with France over taxes. (POOL PHOTO BY MIKHAIL KLIMENTYEV) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); PHIL MICKELSON (74%); RICK PERRY (52%); TIGER WOODS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



594 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Errors in Credit Reports

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Victimized by Credit Reports'' (editorial, Feb. 13):
In a survey of consumers who went through the process to dispute their credit report, the Political and Economic Research Council found that 95 percent were satisfied with the results. Likewise, the Federal Trade Commission's report on the dispute process found that it worked. Stating that our members and lenders ''fail to investigate consumer complaints'' is unfounded. 
The goal of the F.T.C. study was to determine the impact a credit report error might have on the price a consumer would pay for things like car or home loans. It found that 2.2 percent of credit reports may have such an error, affecting 5.2 percent of consumers. While the good news for consumers is that 98 percent of credit reports don't contain material errors, our members look forward to continuing to push down the material error rate.
Consumers should exercise their right to free credit reports by visiting www.annualcreditreport.com.
STUART PRATT President and Chief Executive Consumer Data Industry Association Washington, Feb. 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



595 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Senators Overboard!

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
We seem to be short one secretary of defense.
Well, there's Leon Panetta, who has already had his farewell ceremony, given his farewell briefing and his farewell address, then flown home to California. But the Pentagon probably still has his cell number in case a war breaks out.
And there's Chuck Hagel, nominated yet totally-still-not-confirmed by the U.S. Senate. A Senate that is beginning to resemble a bad Carnival cruise. They're dead in the water, nothing's working and the chief engineer is Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. 
People, what do you think happened with Lindsey Graham? Have you noticed that lately he seems to be on television more often than the Geico gecko? How does he manage to get himself interviewed so much? Do you think he lives in a tent outside one of the studios? Graham doesn't hold any Senate position higher than ranking member of the Armed Services subcommittee on personnel. Yet there he is, on the air all the time, denouncing something.
And what do you think has happened to John McCain? Actually, we've had that conversation a number of times before.
When it comes to the Hagel nomination, McCain is supposed to be the Republican point man. If we were on a Carnival cruise, he would be the captain. A captain who got on the P.A. and announced that the ship was going to Mexico. No, Alabama! No, in a circle! Or maybe we'll just stay dead in the water until a week from Tuesday and see what happens.
Both McCain and Graham have changed their tune repeatedly over what the critical, central problem is about making Chuck Hagel the secretary of defense. The goal posts have not just been moved; they've been put on a tractor-trailer and driven down every highway exit in the continental United States.
The complaints about Hagel that have come up so far range from the perfectly reasonable (seems to have trouble communicating), to the perfectly lunatic. During debate in the Senate Armed Services Committee, James Inhofe of Oklahoma, the ranking Republican, suggested that Hagel had been ''endorsed'' by ''terrorist-type countries.'' This presumably had to do with a spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry saying he hoped Hagel's nomination would improve relations between the two countries.
Let us all stop for a minute here and say a prayer that someday a spokesman for the International League of Puppy Murderers appears out of nowhere to announce that he thinks James Inhofe would make a great animal warden.
McCain and Graham have been particularly obsessed with the attack on the American mission in Benghazi, Libya -- from the ''talking points'' given to Susan Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, to the president's phone calls in the wake of the tragedy. ''I'm not going to stop until we get to the bottom of it,'' Graham said on -- yes! -- a Sunday morning talk show.
The only problem is that Hagel wasn't in government when the attack occurred. He had nothing to do with it. Watching the Republicans fight this nomination over Benghazi is sort of like watching the crew of a disabled cruise ship racing around yelling about a bridge being out on the Amtrak route to Montreal.
On Thursday, the Republicans declined to permit an up-or-down vote on the Hagel nomination, something that has never before happened with a prospective secretary of defense.
Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee argued that it wasn't such a big deal, because there were plenty of precedents for holding up even good ideas for no reason whatsoever. He pointed to the dreadful time 20 years ago when a single senator from Ohio caused an 87-day delay on ''a fairly noncontroversial nominee'' for secretary of education. Who happened to be Lamar Alexander of Tennessee.
The Republicans said what they were doing didn't count as a filibuster since they just wanted to bring all progress to a screeching halt temporarily, while the senators took more time to study the issues. This translates into letting the Tea Party crazies have another week to look for a smoking gun -- in the form, perhaps, of a hitherto-undiscovered video of Chuck Hagel on a camel, leading a tribe of Bedouins across the desert in an attack on Aqaba.
''After the break, we can have a cloture vote, and I feel pretty comfortable I'd vote to move on -- unless there's some bombshell,'' said Graham.
Let's take a vote ourselves. Would you rather have the Senate:
A) Spend one week on vacation studying and then the last week of the month debating Chuck Hagel, or
B) Stay right where they are and figure out what to do about those enormous, economy-blasting spending cuts that are scheduled to kick in March 1.
O.K., I see a whole lot of hands for staying and fixing the spending cuts. None of you are ever going to get to be a U.S. senator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); TERRORISM (60%); MURDER (57%)

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (93%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); LEON E PANETTA (73%); SUSAN RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013



596 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Black and White, and Blue

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: Cyanotype printing used a solution of iron compounds that was briefly popular among photographers - and still claims a following - for its economy, its simplicity and (if the prints are stored correctly) its permanence. 

 BODY:
 We highly recommend viewing this slideshow in "full-screen" mode. 
To see New York through cyanotype prints of the late 19th and early 20th centuries is to behold a dreamscape of almost-familiar scenes rendered in a very unfamiliar palette, neither silver nor sepia. 
The Prussian blue was not an effect, but the product of a printing process that used a solution of iron compounds that was briefly popular among photographers - and still claims a following - for its economy, its simplicity and (if the prints are stored correctly) its permanence.
There is a pleasing symmetry in the use of cyanotype prints to record the built environment, because they are directly related to blueprints, the architectural documents that helped create the structures in the first place. But the color also calls attention to our distance from the subjects, as if a veil had been drawn between viewer and photographer. And it definitely depresses the mood. Bleu was the old noir.
Manhattan's fabled night skyline flickers against an immense darkness in these photos. The beacons atop the Park Row Building, then the world's tallest office building, do nothing to illuminate the shadowy hulk below - an enormous post office that occupied what is now the south half of City Hall Park. An architectural ornament on what may be the Home Life Insurance Building, in the right foreground, could be a brooding gargoyle at Notre Dame.
How perfectly appropriate the cyanotype is for the Edgar Allan Poe Cottage in the Bronx, photographed in its original location on the east side of Kingsbridge Road. Little imagination is needed to conjure the moment described by Poe - in a poem written here - when "the wind came out of the cloud by night, / Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee."
 Follow Lens on Facebook and Twitter. 

        
Following Weegee's Footsteps
        
A City's Hard Edges, Softened by Joy
        
Shooting Fashion, but Not Too Much of It
        
Out of Sight, Very Much in Mind
        
North Pole Noir

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%) 19th-century photography; Cyanotypes; David W. Dunlap; Early 20th-century photography; Edgar Allen Poe; New York City; Vintage photography; Photography; Bronx (NYC); Kingsbridge (Bronx, NY); Manhattan (NYC); Park Row (Manhattan, NY); Metropolitan

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Bronx (NYC); Kingsbridge (Bronx, NY); Manhattan (NYC); New York City; Park Row (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



597 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: How Much Do You Trust Journalists?

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A new poll demonstrates, once again, widespread lack of trust in journalists. Has journalism really lost its way, or does the public always get the press it deserves? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Another poll came out this week showing that in the hierarchy of trust, journalists figure near the bottom of the heap.
Some of us take a perverse pride in being down there with the money-changers and the harlots (actually, the latter sometimes rate rather highly in these surveys.) 
The comforting theory is that if everybody hates us, we must be doing something right. 
The Ipsos MORI poll published on Friday found that among 1,018 British respondents, only one in five trusted journalists to tell the truth - on a par with bankers and below real estate agents.
Bizarrely, almost 70 percent trusted television news presenters - ahead of priests and other clergymen.
The only small consolation for the derided scribes was that they came out just ahead of politicians. Only 18 percent of respondents believed politicians could be relied on to tell the truth.
The results may simply reflect the state of British journalism, and indeed of British politics.
In the latest development in a long-running phone-hacking scandal, Scotland Yard on Wednesday arrested six more journalists who previously worked for Rupert Murdoch's now defunct News of the World.
The scandal has already led to an inquiry that has lasted months by Lord Justice Sir Brian Leveson, who concluded with an excoriating critique of the press as a whole for displaying "significant and reckless disregard for accuracy."
Media-watchers believe, however, that in an era of rapid technological change, the trust issue goes wider than the morally dubious practices of some of the red-top newspapers in Britain.
As my colleague David Carr wrote at the height of the phone-hacking scandal last year: "Journalism's ills don't live exclusively on Fleet Street or stop at British shores."
"Economic pressures have increased the urgency to make news and drive traffic, even as budgets have been cut and experienced news professionals tossed overboard," David wrote.
He said part of the reason the public had lost confidence was that the product sometimes did not merit it. "If journalism is losing its way, that's a story that needs to be told over and over," he wrote.
A U.S. student journal this week quoted Ron F. Smith, author of "Ethics in Journalism," as saying the reputation of journalists was continually being questioned. 
"Nearly every public opinion poll shows that people have lost respect for journalists and lost faith in the news media," the introduction to his 2003 ethics manual said. 
Mariah Young, an aspiring journalist who writes for The Bullet, a student newspaper at the University of Mary Washington in Virginia, used the citation to ask whether journalists had lost a once cherished sense of ethics.
In an era of Twitter and the Internet, it was becoming harder for journalists to break news, for papers to publish and for people to trust the media, Ms. Young concluded.
There was similar soul-searching last month by John Lloyd, a veteran British commentator and a columnist for Reuters. 
"The trend in a lot of the media is toward more scandal, more controversy and more opining," he wrote, lamenting that news organizations wedded to objective reporting, investigation and rational analysis were now in a minority, "and a lot of them are finding it hard to make a living."
He called for greater focus on long-term strategic issues like global warming, dwindling resources and social change. "We should find some way of making this stuff part of a real global conversation - one that is vivid, comprehensible and more democratic," he wrote.
In a comment to Mr. Lloyd, one anonymous news editor wrote, "Journalism has always attracted the self-righteous, opinionated and egotistical and with the new Facebook generation now in the workforce that bar is already at an all-time high."
 Has journalism really lost its way? Or does the public always get the press it deserves? And is the impact of citizen journalism a plus or a minus? Tell us what you think. 

        
Baby News Keeps Royals in the Headlines
        
The Chevaline Murders and Journalism on the Two Sides of the Channel
        
Fear and Loathing at Murdoch's Sun
        
Journalists in the Line of Fire
        
Hungry Enough to Eat a Horse?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ETHICS (89%); SCANDALS (87%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); RELIGION (69%); POLICE FORCES (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (55%) britain; fleet street; journalism; Media; Newspapers; polls; press; Leveson, Brian (1949- ); News and News Media; Great Britain; View From Europe

COMPANY: IPSOS MORI (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) Leveson, Brian (1949- )

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013



598 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Unravel

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and a look at the weekly addresses, plus the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
 Today's Times 

        
Federal prosecutors filed charges against former Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, on Friday for using campaign funds to fuel his desire for exotic objects, Michael S. Schmidt reports. Mr. Jackson's desire for such objects, prompted him to take about $750,000 directly from his campaign funds in violation of campaign finance laws, according to government documents, unraveling the career of one of the country's best-known black politicians and the son of a famous civil rights activist. 
 

        
In just two months, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, has made his presence felt in the Capitol with brash moves that have raised eyebrows and tempers from colleagues in both parties, Jonathan Weisman reports.

        
President Obama gave a policy speech that turned personal on Friday when he paid tribute to 15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton, a girl who's shooting death now represents his private connection to the gun violence that he has only begun to address in his second term, Jackie Calmes writes.

        
Even though Democrats in Kentucky are still fighting over whether Ashley Judd, the actress, would be a viable United States Senate candidate in 2014, she hasalready become the target of a Republican "super PAC," Trip Gabriel reports.
 Weekly Addresses 

        
President Obama delivered his weekly address from Hyde Park Academy in Chicago, where he reiterated the plans he laid out in Tuesday's State of the Union address. He spoke about wanting to create manufacturing hubs across the country, making the tax code more competitive for companies, offering high-quality preschool to every child in America, raising the minimum wage and passing comprehensive immigration reform. "So we know what we need to do," he said. "All the steps I've mentioned are common sense. And, together, they will help us grow our economy and strengthen our middle class."

        
Representative Martha Roby of Alabama delivered this week's Republican address, calling on President Obama and Senate Democrats to join her party members in "replacing" the proposed across-the-board cuts on military spending with "better, more responsible spending cuts." She did not specify what programs her colleagues would trim instead, but said they would be based on "real budget priorities." "It is a shame that our commander in chief is using the military he leads as leverage in an ideological crusade for higher taxes," she said. "These games have got to stop.
 Happenings in Washington 

        
For the 100th anniversary of Woodrow Wilson's presidency, the Woodrow Wilson House will be open to the public.

        
Obama Tells House Democrats He Will Confront Republicans on Taxes
        
For First Time in Four Years, Senate Democrats Will Draft a Budget Blueprint
        
On the Issues: A Guide to Obama's Proposals
        
In Policy-Heavy Speech, Obama Appeals to Emotion on Guns
        
A 102-Year-Old Face of Voting Delays at the State of the Union

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); TAX LAW (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); FIREARMS (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); IMMIGRATION (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Chicago (Ill); Democratic Party; Obama, Barack; State of the Union Message (US); United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JESSE JACKSON (88%); TED CRUZ (79%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (73%); MARTHA ROBY (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013



599 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Equal Opportunity, Our National Myth

BYLINE: JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ


HIGHLIGHT: The upwardly mobile American is becoming a statistical oddity. 

 BODY:
President Obama's second Inaugural Address used soaring language to reaffirm America's commitment to the dream of equality of opportunity: "We are true to our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows that she has the same chance to succeed as anybody else, because she is an American; she is free, and she is equal, not just in the eyes of God but also in our own."
The gap between aspiration and reality could hardly be wider. Today, the United States has less equality of opportunity than almost any other advanced industrial country. Study after study has exposed the myth that America is a land of opportunity. This is especially tragic: While Americans may differ on the desirability of equality of outcomes, there is near-universal consensus that inequality of opportunity is indefensible. The Pew Research Center has found that some 90 percent of Americans believe that the government should do everything it can to ensure equality of opportunity. 
Perhaps a hundred years ago, America might have rightly claimed to have been the land of opportunity, or at least a land where there was more opportunity than elsewhere. But not for at least a quarter of a century. Horatio Alger-style rags-to-riches stories were not a deliberate hoax, but given how they've lulled us into a sense of complacency, they might as well have been.
It's not that social mobility is impossible, but that the upwardly mobile American is becoming a statistical oddity. According to research from the Brookings Institution, only 58 percent of Americans born into the bottom fifth of income earners move out of that category, and just 6 percent born into the bottom fifth move into the top. Economic mobility in the United States is lower than in most of Europe and lower than in all of Scandinavia.
Another way of looking at equality of opportunity is to ask to what extent the life chances of a child are dependent on the education and income of his parents. Is it just as likely that a child of poor or poorly educated parents gets a good education and rises to the middle class as someone born to middle-class parents with college degrees? Even in a more egalitarian society, the answer would be no. But the life prospects of an American are more dependent on the income and education of his parents than in almost any other advanced country for which there is data.
How do we explain this? Some of it has to do with persistent discrimination. Latinos and African-Americans still get paid less than whites, and women still get paid less than men, even though they recently surpassed men in the number of advanced degrees they obtain. Though gender disparities in the workplace are less than they once were, there is still a glass ceiling: women are sorely underrepresented in top corporate positions and constitute a minuscule fraction of C.E.O.'s.
Discrimination, however, is only a small part of the picture. Probably the most important reason for lack of equality of opportunity is education: both its quantity and quality. After World War II, Europe made a major effort to democratize its education systems. We did, too, with the G.I. Bill, which extended higher education to Americans across the economic spectrum.
But then we changed, in several ways. While racial segregation decreased, economic segregation increased. After 1980, the poor grew poorer, the middle stagnated, and the top did better and better. Disparities widened between those living in poor localities and those living in rich suburbs - or rich enough to send their kids to private schools. A result was a widening gap in educational performance - the achievement gap between rich and poor kids born in 2001 was 30 to 40 percent larger than it was for those born 25 years earlier, the Stanford sociologist Sean F. Reardon found.
Of course, there are other forces at play, some of which start even before birth. Children in affluent families get more exposure to reading and less exposure to environmental hazards. Their families can afford enriching experiences like music lessons and summer camp. They get better nutrition and health care, which enhance their learning, directly and indirectly.
Unless current trends in education are reversed, the situation is likely to get even worse. In some cases it seems as if policy has actually been designed to reduce opportunity: government support for many state schools has been steadily gutted over the last few decades - and especially in the last few years. Meanwhile, students are crushed by giant student loan debts that are almost impossible to discharge, even in bankruptcy. This is happening at the same time that a college education is more important than ever for getting a good job.
Young people from families of modest means face a Catch-22: without a college education, they are condemned to a life of poor prospects; with a college education, they may be condemned to a lifetime of living at the brink. And increasingly even a college degree isn't enough; one needs either a graduate degree or a series of (often unpaid) internships. Those at the top have the connections and social capital to get those opportunities. Those in the middle and bottom don't. The point is that no one makes it on his or her own. And those at the top get more help from their families than do those lower down on the ladder. Government should help to level the playing field.
Americans are coming to realize that their cherished narrative of social and economic mobility is a myth. Grand deceptions of this magnitude are hard to maintain for long - and the country has already been through a couple of decades of self-deception.
Without substantial policy changes, our self-image, and the image we project to the world, will diminish - and so will our economic standing and stability. Inequality of outcomes and inequality of opportunity reinforce each other - and contribute to economic weakness, as Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist and the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, has emphasized. We have an economic, and not only moral, interest in saving the American dream.
Policies that promote equality of opportunity must target the youngest Americans. First, we have to make sure that mothers are not exposed to environmental hazards and get adequate prenatal health care. Then, we have to reverse the damaging cutbacks to preschool education, a theme Mr. Obama emphasized on Tuesday. We have to make sure that all children have adequate nutrition and health care - not only do we have to provide the resources, but if necessary, we have to incentivize parents, by coaching or training them or even rewarding them for being good caregivers. The right says that money isn't the solution. They've chased reforms like charter schools and private-school vouchers, but most of these efforts have shown ambiguous results at best. Giving more money to poor schools would help. So would summer and extracurricular programs that enrich low-income students' skills.
Finally, it is unconscionable that a rich country like the United States has made access to higher education so difficult for those at the bottom and middle. There are many alternative ways of providing universal access to higher education, from Australia's income-contingent loan program to the near-free system of universities in Europe. A more educated population yields greater innovation, a robust economy and higher incomes - which mean a higher tax base. Those benefits are, of course, why we've long been committed to free public education through 12th grade. But while a 12th-grade education might have sufficed a century ago, it doesn't today. Yet we haven't adjusted our system to contemporary realities.
The steps I've outlined are not just affordable but imperative. Even more important, though, is that we cannot afford to let our country drift farther from ideals that the vast majority of Americans share. We will never fully succeed in achieving Mr. Obama's vision of a poor girl's having exactly the same opportunities as a wealthy girl. But we could do much, much better, and must not rest until we do.
 Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate in economics, a professor at Columbia and a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and chief economist for the World Bank, is the author of "The Price of Inequality." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RELIGION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (62%) The Great Divide

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013



600 of 1031 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BACKDROP; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Where Ice Lights a Fire In the Economy

BYLINE: By JENN ACKERMAN and TIM GRUBER

 BODY:
UNTIL recently, long, cold winters were considered a given in Minnesota, the Land of 10,000 Lakes. But as weather around the globe has become more erratic, more people sense that there is no guarantee that those lakes will freeze over in the first part of the year. That doesn't bode well for businesses that depend on ice fishing for much of their winter revenue. 
''If we don't have ice, a lot of people will be out of business,'' says Paul Waldowski, general manager of Appeldoorn's Sunset Bay Resort of Isle, Minn., in the central part of the state.
But this winter, thanks to more snow and colder temperatures than last year, the rural ice fishing scene has been lively. Many anglers are buying or renting fishing houses -- sometimes with bunks -- and spending money at businesses like gas stations, cafes, bait shops, liquor stores, motels and resorts. Last month, businesses in Brainerd, Minn., had a surge of activity as anglers competed in the Ice Fishing Extravaganza, a charity event.
Minnesotans always complain about the winter, Mr. Waldowski says, ''but deep down we love it and need it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More than 10,000 people competed last month in the Ice Fishing Extravaganza, above, at Brainerd, Minn., to raise money for local charities. Winds gusting up to 50 miles per hour were reported on the ice, providing a challenge to participants like Tim Gerdmann, below, of Tomahawk, Wis. But conditions are far less harsh for anglers who fish from heated ice houses, complete with bunk beds, like the one at below left on Mille Lacs Lake near Isle, Minn., southeast of Brainerd. About 150,000 ice houses and fishing shelters are erected on Minnesota lakes each year, according to the state's Department of Natural Resources. At left, a crowded photo board at Fisherman's Wharf in Isle displayed much evidence of big catches.
Above, Lisa Perlberg of Garrison, Minn., helped reel in a catch on Mille Lacs Lake. Her group gathered on the ice for a full day, complete with grilling and a bonfire. At right, an angler found a way to relax during the Brainerd tournament. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN
 TIM GRUBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (91%); SPORT FISHING (91%); LAKES (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (76%); CHARITIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

 
