

401 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: TREASURY'S CHIEF IS SAID TO FAULT STEEL TARIFF MOVE 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill told a foreign policy group this week that he disagreed with the Bush administration's decision earlier this month to impose tariffs on imported steel and that the move would cost more jobs in the United States than it would save, people who heard him speak said today.
 In off-the-record comments after a dinner speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Wednesday, Mr. O'Neill said he was sticking to his long-held position that imposing tariffs risked the nation's interests as the world's leader in promoting free trade, they said. 
 Mr. O'Neill had never made any secret of his philosophical opposition to trade barriers. It was widely known that he had made his views clear during internal administration discussions that preceded President Bush's decision last week to protect the domestic steel industry with tariffs of up to 30 percent. 
In an administration that prizes loyalty and discretion, Mr. O'Neill has regularly expressed opinions that diverge to a surprising degree from administration policy.
In expressing his opinions about the steel issue, Mr. O'Neill was giving voice to the unease of free trade advocates and others, including many Republicans, about the administration's policy. 
But in doing so before an audience of more than 200 people -- even with the caveat that his remarks were not intended for public consumption and that they represented his personal opinion -- Mr. O'Neill flirted with openly distancing himself from a sensitive policy decision.
Last week, the White House forced the head of the Army Corps of Engineers, Michael Parker, to resign after he suggested to Congress that he opposed the budget cuts the administration had proposed for his agency. 
According to two people who heard Mr. O'Neill's remarks in person and another who viewed them on a simultaneous Internet broadcast, the treasury secretary strongly emphasized his belief that the administration decision risked more jobs in steel-using industries than it would protect among the long-ailing steelmakers.
Some members of the staff of The New York Times are also members of the Council on Foreign Relations. But this article is based on information obtained independently.
Three people who heard the remarks and said they were sympathetic to them, said that Mr. O'Neill, in response to a question, also stressed that the treasury secretary had no intention of trying to undermine the administration's policy. 
Michele Davis, Mr. O'Neill's spokeswoman, said his comments were consistent both with Mr. Bush's policy and with Mr. O'Neill's own judgment that tariffs alone would not solve the steel industry's problems. She said Mr. O'Neill supported temporary tariffs that would give the industry time to slim down and become globally competitive.
Neither the Treasury Department nor the spokeswoman for the Council on Foreign Relations would provide a transcript of Mr. O'Neill's remarks or permit a viewing of the webcast of his appearance. 
Ms. Davis said Mr. O'Neill told the audience that the domestic industry's problems should be addressed in part by reducing global overcapacity in steel making, an effort that Mr. O'Neill has spearheaded for months. The United States has been trying to negotiate a deal with other steel-producing nations to cut back on excess steel production that has driven prices down around the world.
Claire Buchan, a spokeswoman for the White House, said, "Secretary O'Neill shares the president's view that the steel industry needs time to do necessary restructuring."
The steel tariff decision has been an especially delicate one for this administration. Mr. Bush and his team have often urged other nations to resist protectionist pressures.
But they have also face intense pressure from steel companies and their unions. Many steel jobs are concentrated in politically important states like Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
Just before Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, visited Brazil earlier this week, Brazil's president, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, strongly criticized the tariffs and said they contradicted the basic thrust of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, a regional trade accord that Mr. Bush has urged Latin American nations to join.
While in Brazil, Mr. Zoellick defended the tariffs on the grounds that they were necessary for domestic political reasons.
"We are committed to moving forward with free trade, but, like Brazil, we have to manage political support for free trade at home," he said. "We have to create coalitions." 
Mr. O'Neill's remarks were the latest in a series of incidents in which he has lived up to his reputation for speaking his mind -- a trait that in Washington may come across as impolitic, out of step or even disloyal.
This week, in an appearance before a Congressional committee, Mr. O'Neill, the former chief executive of Alcoa, seemed to support a shift in the administration's policy on allowing American citizens to visit Cuba, causing the White House to issue a clarification saying Mr. O'Neill supported the current policy.
Earlier this month, on a visit to the Middle East, he specified a price range for oil, a departure from the administration's usual deference to market forces. Now, with his remark that steel tariffs could result in net job losses for the American economy, he effectively endorsed one of the main arguments made by opponents of the president's decision. Steel-using industries had cited studies suggesting that tariffs would cost anywhere from 7 to 14 jobs for every job they saved.
Mr. O'Neill's comments, however hedged, are sure to be seized upon by opponents of Mr. Bush's policy both at home and abroad. The administration has come under heavy international pressure since the decision, with the European Union filing an immediate complaint against the tariffs at the World Trade Organization and demanding compensation for lost sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); WEBCASTS (61%); ARMIES (52%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%) COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002 



402 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: A Wise Investment in Foreign Aid 

 BODY:
President Bush's plan to add $5 billion to the foreign aid budget shows that his administration, like the rest of America, is rethinking the importance of helping underdeveloped countries in the wake of Sept. 11. Obviously, that is a good thing -- not only because, as Mr. Bush noted, the money may ease the hopelessness that breeds terrorism. Foreign aid, well spent, will also liberate entrepreneurial energies, protect human rights and help millions achieve better lives. 
 The announcement of the new initiative was well timed, coming just before next week's meeting of world leaders in Monterrey, Mexico, to confront what Mr. Bush called the divide "between opportunity and misery." 
 The president's vision, unfortunately, is larger than his financial commitment. Mr. Bush wants to spend the extra $5 billion over three years, beginning in October 2003. Shamefully, America, once the world's most generous aid giver, now gives less, relative to the size of its economy, than any other developed country, and much of what it does provide goes to military rather than humanitarian purposes. 
Many Americans have supported the retreat from foreign aid under the assumption that the money is wasted anyway. Mr. Bush's plan may reassure them, since it would sensibly use economic development funds as a reward for countries that agree to combat corruption, strengthen the rule of law, respect human rights and maintain open markets. 
And after a decade in which foreign assistance spending remained virtually flat, Mr. Bush's proposal marks a significant advance. A three-year rise of $5 billion, though tiny compared with next year's proposed $48 billion increase in defense spending, can do much good fighting AIDS and other infectious diseases, relieving malnutrition, spreading computer literacy and Internet access and helping third-world businesses market their goods in the developed world.
Washington's leadership cannot be reduced to a show of military might. Mr. Bush's proposal could help lead America back toward its traditional role as a generous partner in alleviating misery and spreading economic development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); MALNUTRITION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); AIDS & HIV (66%) FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002 



403 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 3101 words

HEADLINE: The Pretenders 

BYLINE:  By Chuck Klosterman; Chuck Klosterman is the author of "Fargo Rock City: A Heavy Metal Odyssey in Rural North Dakota."

 BODY:
Randy Trask's hair is naturally blond. He likes it that color, and it looks just fine. It's what his hair is supposed to look like. But in his line of work, blond hair is a problem, and he knows it.
 "I am going to dye my hair red," he assures me. "That is definitely in the works. It's just that the last time I tried, it turned sort of pink. And for some reason, people get scared of you when you have red hair. I don't know why that is, but it's true. They just don't warm up to you the way they do if you're blond." 
 Trask is telling me this at 10 minutes to midnight. We are sitting in his 1997 extended-cab Ford Ranger pickup, which we will soon be driving from Cincinnati to Harrisonburg, Va., for his gig tomorrow night. Trask is the lead singer in a band called Paradise City, and like any frontman, he cares about his image. But Trask has a whole set of concerns -- like the specific tint of his hair -- that most singers don't need to worry about. He doesn't just want to look good; he wants to look exactly like W. Axl Rose, the lead singer of Guns N' Roses, the late-80's pop-metal band that Paradise City imitates, as precisely as possible, in every show it plays. 
It's roughly a 10-hour drive to Harrisonburg, so leaving in the middle of the night should get us to town just in time to check into the Hampton Inn and take an afternoon nap. There is some concern about this trip, because the last time the band stayed in Harrisonburg, they were banned for life from the Econo Lodge. They need to make sure things go smoothly at the Hampton Inn this weekend; there just aren't that many hotels in Harrisonburg to choose from.
Our pickup is idling outside the home of Paul Dischner, Trask's bandmate, who is inside, still packing for our voyage. Our conversation moves on from Trask's hair issues to larger questions. "I initially had a problem with the idea of doing a Guns N' Roses tribute, because I didn't want anyone to think I was discrediting Axl," Trask says. "That was always my main concern. If Axl was somehow against this, I'd straight-up quit. I would never do this if he disapproved. But I really think we can do his songs justice. People constantly tell me, 'You sound better than Axl,' but I always say, 'Whoa now, slow down.' Because I like the way I sing Axl's songs, but I love the way Axl sings them. That's the main thing I'm concerned about with this article: I do not want this to say anything negative about Guns N' Roses. That's all I ask."
I am the first reporter who has ever done a story on Paradise City. This is less a commentary on Paradise City -- named after one of Guns N' Roses' biggest hits -- and more a commentary on the phenomenon of tribute bands, arguably the most universally maligned sector of rock 'n' roll. These are bands mired in obscurity and engaged in a bizarre zero-sum game: if a tribute band were to succeed completely, its members would essentially cease to exist. Their goal is not to be somebody; their goal is to be somebody else.
Though the Beatles and Elvis Presley were the first artists to spawn impersonators, the modern tribute template was set by groups like Strutter, Hotter Than Hell and Cold Gin, all of which found success in the early 90's by looking, acting and singing like the 1978 version of Kiss. It turned out that people would sooner pay $10 to see four guys pretending to be Kiss than $5 to see four guys playing original songs nobody had ever heard before. There are now hundreds -- probably thousands -- of rock bands who make a living by method acting. There's the Atomic Punks, a Van Halen tribute that celebrates the David Lee Roth era. Planet Earth are L.A.-based Duran Duran clones. Bjorn Again claims to be Australia's finest ABBA tribute. AC/DShe is an all-female AC/DC cover group from San Francisco. There are tributes to groups that weren't that popular to begin with (Badfinger, Thin Lizzy), and there are tributes to bands who are not altogether difficult to see for real (Dave Matthews Band, Creed). And though rock critics deride Stone Temple Pilots and Oasis for ripping off other artists, people pay good money to watch tribute bands rip off Stone Temple Pilots and Oasis.
Being consciously derivative is not simple; Trask and Dischner can talk for hours about the complexity of feeding their appetite for replication. There are countless qualifications that must be considered when auditioning potential members in a tribute. This was especially obvious when Paradise City had to find a new person to play Slash, GN'R's unforgettable lead guitarist. It is not enough to find a guy who plays guitar well; your Slash needs to play guitar like Slash. He needs to play a Les Paul, and he needs to tune it like Slash. He needs to have long black hair that hangs in his face. Preferably, he should have a dark complexion, an emaciated physique and a willingness to play shirtless. And if possible, he should drink Jack Daniel's.
The Slash in Paradise City fulfills about half of those requirements.
"Bobby is on thin ice right now, and he knows he's on thin ice," says Trask, referring to lead guitarist Bobby Young. "I mean, he's an O.K. guy, and he's a good guitar player. But we have ads out right now for a new Slash, and he knows that. I want someone who is transfixed with being Slash. We want someone who is as sick about Slash as I am about Axl."
What is odd about Young's shortcomings as Slash is that in a traditional band, his job would likely be the most secure: he is clearly the most skilled musician in Paradise City, with a degree from Cincinnati's conservatory of music. "I was classically trained, so I'm used to everything being built around minor chords," he tells me. "But Slash plays almost everything in a major chord, and his soloing is very different than mine. It's all in chromatic keys. I really thought I could learn all of these Guns N' Roses songs in two days, but it took me almost two weeks."
Unfortunately, Young can't learn how to look like a mulatto former heroin addict, and he holds the only position in America for which that is a job requirement. He only vaguely resembles Slash, and his bandmates tell him he looks like an Oompa-Loompa from "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." There's a similar problem with Paradise City's bassist, an affable, laid-back blond named Spike. Spike is built a little too much like a farmer. His shoulders are broad, and he actually looks more like Larry Bird than Duff McKagan, the bassist in Guns N' Roses. Spike is also partly deaf from playing heavy metal for so many years (he can't hear certain frequencies, including high-end feedback), but -- amazingly -- this doesn't seem to pose a problem.
Visually, the rest of Paradise City succeeds to varying degrees. Rob (the Monster) Pohlman, the drummer, could pass perfectly for Steven Adler -- if Pohlman hadn't just shaved his head and dyed the remaining bristles orange. (Dischner is upset about Pohlman's new haircut; a few days earlier, he had explained to me proudly that "what sets us apart from the 22 other Guns N' Roses tribute bands in America is that we don't wear wigs.") Trask is eight inches too tall to be Axl Rose, but he has the voice and -- more important -- the desire. He wills himself into Axlocity.
Dischner is the only Paradise City member who naturally looks like his assigned doppelg* nger, Izzy Stradlin', Guns N' Roses' original rhythm guitarist. He's also the guy who makes the trains run on time: he handles the cash, coordinates schedules and keeps his bandmates from killing one another. Before Paradise City, Dischner played in an Yngwie Malmsteen-influenced heavy metal band called Premonition, a group whose entire existence was based on the premise that Juan Carlos, the king of Spain, is in fact the Antichrist. To this day, Dischner adheres to this theory and insists it can be proved through Biblical prophecy. He lives with his wife, Kristi (an aspiring vampire novelist), in a small suburb of Cincinnati, and he peppers his conversation with a high-pitched, two-note laugh that sounds like "wee hee!" Over the next 36 hours, he will make that sound approximately 400 times.
By the time we pull out of Dischner's driveway at 12:30 a.m., it has already been an incredibly long day for Trask. He awoke at 2 a.m. at his home in Ravenna, Ohio, and immediately drove four hours to the outskirts of Cincinnati, where he spent the day cutting down a troublesome tree in Dischner's yard. After a brief nap, the band hooked up for a few hours of rehearsal before supper. Now Trask is about to drive the entire way to Virginia, nonstop. He almost never sleeps. Trask once drove 22 straight hours to Hayes, Kan., and played a show immediately on arrival. If the real Axl Rose had Trask's focus, Guns N' Roses would have released two albums a year.
There was a time when Paradise City had a tour bus, but they lost it last summer. This is not a euphemism; they literally can't find it. It broke down on a trip to Kansas City, and they had to leave it in a Missouri garage to make it to the club on time. Somehow, they lost the business card of the garage and have never been able to find their way back. Dischner tells me this story three times before I realize he's completely serious.
"We drove back through Missouri a bunch of times, we put up a picture on our Web site and we even called the highway patrol," Dischner says. "But we lost the bus. And I guess there's some law that states you only have 30 days to find your bus."
The band is now traveling in two vehicles. Randy/Axl will use his truck to pull the Haulmark trailer that holds their gear; he'll drive, I'll ride shotgun and Paul/Izzy will curl up in the extended cab. A friend of the band -- some dude named Teddy -- will follow in his Ford Mustang, which will also carry Bobby/Slash and Rob/Steven. The pickup box is covered with a topper, so Spike/Duff will lie back there with Punky.
Trask and Dischner do not know who Punky is.
At departure time, only 40 percent of the band is not under the influence of some kind of chemical. Twenty minutes into the trip, that percentage will fall to zero. Even before we get on the road, this Punky character looks drunk enough to die; amazingly, he's just getting started. They're all just getting started. It remains to be seen if these guys can sound like Guns N' Roses, but they clearly have the self-destructive thing mastered.
Our vehicles barrel into the darkness of Kentucky. Spike and Punky are freezing in the box of the pickup, and they try to stay warm by drinking Bud Light. Inside the toasty cab, faux Axl, faux Izzy and I discuss the question most people have about tribute bands, which is "Why on earth do you do this?" It seems antithetical to the whole concept of art; the notion of creativity has been completely removed from the equation. Wouldn't the members of Paradise City be happier if they could write their own songs, dress however they want and -- quite simply -- be themselves?
Not really.
"Obviously, being in an original band is the ultimate dream, but it mostly sucks," Dischner says. "You don't get to tour. You don't get no money. You have to beg your own friends to come to the show. But being a mock star is awesome."
Paradise City will earn $1,100 for the Harrisonburg show. After their manager takes his 15 percent and they pay for gas and promotions, they will be left with $655, which -- split between five people -- ends up being $131 each. Obviously, this is almost nothing. But the operative word is "almost." If the same five guys in Paradise City performed their own material, they would have to pay club owners for the chance to play; relatively speaking, $1,100 is good money.
"The thing about being in a tribute band is that your fans already exist," Trask says. "You show up at the bar, and there's immediately a few hundred people who love Guns N' Roses and therefore love you. We don't think of ourselves as Guns N' Roses. But our fans are Guns N' Roses fans -- they're not really fans of Paradise City. We're not deluding ourselves."
This is true; no one in Paradise City seems confused about the social significance of the group. But they're obsessed with convincing themselves that it's still worth it. They love talking about how "life on the road" is a hard yet satisfying experience. They make grand proclamations that sound like outtakes from VH1's "Behind the Music": it's all about the fans, it's all about the music, it's all about the awe-inspiring majesty of rock; it's all about something, and then it's all about something else entirely. But they're never lying -- when you're in a tribute band, all those cliches are true. Paradise City cares more about Guns N' Roses than the actual members of Guns N' Roses care about the song "Paradise City."
In fact, the guys in Paradise City care about all music with more enthusiasm than any group of musicians I've ever encountered. The truck stereo never plays an artist they dislike. They have positive things to say about Aerosmith, Nickelback, Celine Dion(!), Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd and Alabama. When Jewel's "You Were Meant for Me" comes on the radio, Dischner mentions that the song always makes him wish it was raining; 10 minutes later, he tells me that Rush is "just about the greatest three-piece band ever," and then gives a similar compliment to the Rush tribute band 2112.
We hit the Virginia border around dawn. Trask begins scanning radio stations in the hope of hearing "the commercial." This is a radio spot promoting Paradise City's concert at the Mainstreet Bar and Grill in Harrisonburg. The band gets excited about hearing "the commercial" in the same way normal bands get excited about hearing their first single on the radio. When we finally hear it, it refers to Paradise City's "triumphant return" to Virginia. High-fives are exchanged all around.
For the next hour, Trask and I discuss the real Guns N' Roses, a topic we are both obsessed with (albeit in very different ways). Just like mine, Trask's first musical love was Motley Crue (before Paradise City, he fronted a Motley tribute called Bastard), but he slowly grew obsessed with the more combustible GN'R. Guns N' Roses made its debut in 1987 as L.A.'s most dangerous band, blowing the doors off pop-metal with "Appetite for Destruction," arguably the strongest debut album ever. They followed with an EP titled "GN'R Lies," which is best remembered for the ballad "Patience" and the controversial song "One in a Million," a track that managed to be racist, homophobic and xenophobic all in just over six minutes. In 1991, Guns released two massive albums on the same day, "Use Your Illusion" I and II, cementing their place as the biggest band in the world. Yet by 1997, it had all collapsed; one by one, every member -- except the mercurial Axl Rose -- either quit or was fired. Rose became a virtual recluse, endlessly working on an alleged masterpiece, titled "Chinese Democracy," that may never be released.
But history is not an issue for Paradise City; for them, the past is no different than the present, and the future will be identical. Every day, Axl Rose grows a little older, but Paradise City never ages beyond the summer of '91.
There are no fashion don'ts inside the Mainstreet Bar and Grill in downtown Harrisonburg. You want to wear a headband? Fine. You want to wear a Fubu sweatshirt and a baseball hat featuring the Confederate flag? No problem. This is the kind of place where you will see a college girl trying to buy a $2.25 glass of Natural Light on tap with her credit card -- and have her card denied.
The Mainstreet is not trendy. But it's still cool, or at least gritty, and Paradise City has sold it out. Almost 500 people (mostly kids from nearby James Madison University) have paid $12 each to get inside, which is as big an audience as the Mainstreet will draw for next week's show by Dokken, an 80's metal act trying to make a comeback. One can only wonder how the real guys in Dokken feel about being as popular as five fake guys in Guns N' Roses.
The opening act is a local collegiate jam band called Alpine Recess; they look as if they'd rather be opening for a Phish tribute band, but the crowd is polite. Meanwhile, Paradise City is dressing downstairs in the basement, drinking free beer in the storeroom and leaning against the water heater. They have decided to open with the song "Nightrain," even though it includes an extended five-minute guitar solo that Young worries might anesthetize the audience.
Unlike the real GN'R, Paradise City hits the stage on time. Trask moves his hips in Axl's signature snakelike sway, and the crowd sings along with everything. Paradise City may not always look like Guns N' Roses, but they certainly sound like them; when I go to the bathroom and hear the music through the door, it's impossible not to think that this is how it would have sounded to urinate on the Sunset Strip in 1986. 
"This next song is dedicated to everybody who ever told you how to live," Trask tells us as he prowls the 25-foot stage. "This is for everybody who told you not to smoke weed or not to drink beer every day." 
This soliloquy leads into the bubbling bass intro of "It's So Easy," the angriest three minutes on "Appetite for Destruction." Girls begin crawling onstage to dance on top of the amplifiers, and the band couldn't be happier. Ultimately, this is why they do this: onstage, they're paying tribute to the music of Guns N' Roses, but deep down they're paying tribute to the Guns N' Roses lifestyle. They're totally willing to become other people, just so long as those other people party all the time, live like gypsies and have pretty girls dancing on their amplifiers. This is why guys create rock bands; Paradise City just created somebody else's.
After the show, a few girls (most of whom seem very young) accompany the band back to the Hampton, and the frivolity lasts until dawn. The gig is an undeniable success. There is a casualty, however: the next morning, something is clearly amiss with Punky. It turns out he fell down a flight of stairs before the concert and spent the entire Paradise City set lying on the concrete floor of their basement dressing room. He still managed to party with the band for most of the night, but in the morning -- when the clarity of sobriety finally emerged -- little Punky realized his wrist was broken, and he had to be rushed to the hospital by ambulance. 
Oddly (or perhaps predictably), the band simply drove back to Ohio. We left Punky with no car and no ride, broken and battered, in a town where he knew absolutely no one. Axl would have completely approved. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mock stars (clockwise rom top left): Axl (Randy Trask), Slash (Bobby Young), Duff (Spike Rhizor), Izzy (Paul Dischner) and Steven (Rob Pohlman).; Welcome to the jungle! (Or a reasonable facsimile thereof.) David Yellen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: GUNS; PARADISE CITY (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: KLOSTERMAN, CHUCK 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



404 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2811 words

HEADLINE: Luxembourg Grand Duchy, Small Treasure 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.; R. W. APPLE Jr. is associate editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
BEFORE spending a week in Luxembourg early last spring, I knew the following things about the place: (1) It used to have dirt-cheap Icelandic Airways flights from New York, much loved in the 1950's by me and my hard-up college chums. (2) People there speak a wacky Germanic dialect, as incomprehensible to outsiders as Urdu. (3) Much of the Battle of the Bulge during World War II was fought on its territory. (4) Robert Schuman, a founder of the Common Market, was born there but somehow ended up in French politics.
 In other words, I didn't know much. 
 Now that I'm a newly minted expert, I can tell you a few more things: (1) Luxembourg has one of Europe's most spectacular and spectacularly sited medieval castles. (2) It has more Michelin-starred restaurants per capita than any other country, and some of the Continent's amplest waistlines. (3) It's Euro-exuberant; every bank you've ever heard of has an office on or near the eight-block-long Boulevard Royal in Luxembourg City. (4) The same countryside that was hell for Yankee infantrymen is heaven for hikers, bikers and drivers.
All this comes with a certain tincture of yesteryear. Luxembourg is more Belgian than Belgium, a sober, formal, deeply traditional place (although most hospitable to visitors). Unspoiled it is. Hip it isn't. 
That may be why Luxembourg remains a bit of a secret. The quiet villages and uncrowded byroads reminded me of France a quarter-century ago. Even in the enchanting Old Town of Luxembourg City, flanked by mighty fortifications rebuilt by the great French military engineer Vauban, you are unlikely to be trampled underfoot.
Luxembourg is what it is and where it is for a host of reasons, mainly relating to history and geography. For a little place (999 square miles, smaller than Rhode Island) it carries a lot of history on its shoulders. It was once much bigger and more powerful, with domains extending from the Meuse River in what is now Belgium to the Rhine in what is now Germany. Several of its medieval leaders were elected Holy Roman Emperor. Over the centuries that followed, Luxembourg became the plaything of conquerors, falling under the sway of Burgundy, then Austria, Spain, France and Holland. They wanted its great citadel, perched on and dug into sheer stone cliffs above an oxbow in the Alzette River -- perhaps the finest, and certainly the most picturesque, natural stronghold on the long border between France and Germany.
Ravaged by 400 years of strife, Luxembourg shrank and shrank until 1839, when it was established as an independent state within its present borders. By then it was a geopolitical curiosity. Today, as the only grand duchy in the world, ruled by the Grand Duke Henri, it still is. But in international political and economic affairs it punches well above its weight.
Having been flattened by the Germans in two world wars, Luxembourg abandoned its neutrality to become a founder of NATO and the Common Market. Today it is one of three obviously redundant and supposedly temporary capitals of the European Union (with Brussels and Strasbourg).
Once an economic backwater, the country is now a European base for multinational manufacturers like Goodyear. Add 7,500 very well paid European civil servants, almost 200 bank branch offices, attracted by friendly banking laws, and one of the Continent's biggest broadcasters, Radio Television Luxembourg, and you have an economic dynamo that has produced the highest average income on the planet ($48,000 a year). In Luxembourg, you have to look hard to spot a slum or a jalopy.
The people have developed a fierce sense of national identity, which survived Hitler's attempts to incorporate them into a greater German homeland. The unofficial national motto is "Mir welle bleiwe wat mir sin" ("We want to remain what we are"). But that isn't always easy; there are only about 300,000 native Luxembourgers in a total population of about 440,000, and fewer than half of the residents of the capital are citizens. The rest are "guest workers" of one kind or another, some wearing pinstripes, others denim.
Walking around the Old Town is sheer joy -- not because it is packed with Gothic masterpieces or the birthplaces of the famous (it isn't), but because its streets and squares, its steeply roofed houses and its church steeples look like an album of old engravings come to life. In the daytime, the international bankers and the Eurocrats are kept at arm's length, either on the Boulevard Royal or over on the Kirchberg plateau, in sleek, rather chilly modern buildings designed by the likes of Richard Meier and Gottfried Boehm.
That leaves the Old Town, swept free of most traffic, largely to the Luxembourgers. A stroll down the not-so-Grand Rue and the streets opening off it provides a window onto the Luxembourgers' way of life.
The first, most obvious thing is their taste for luxury. Cartier, Escada and Max Mara are there, as is Villeroy & Boch, founded in Luxembourg in 1748. (Its china is on sale at list price downtown and at big discounts at the suburban factory shop.) Kaiffer, at 77 Grand Rue, sells magnificent Ardennes ham; Oberweis, at 19-21, sells hyper-rich pastries.
In the Place Guillaume II, a few blocks away, a food market is set up on Saturday and Wednesday mornings. One Saturday last April, it was overflowing with fruit, tulips, herbs and those prize heralds of spring, morels and asparagus, to say nothing of eager customers. These people take their groceries very seriously, and they're not about to eat lunch at their desks.
Mostly they go home.
"Between 12 and 2," a local acquaintance told me, "you could invade this country and absolutely no one would take any notice."
Luxembourgers are also tidy folk. When my wife, Betsey, and I walked through the square again after lunch, there was not so much as a flower petal or a lettuce leaf to remind us that a market had been there.
The Grand Ducal Palace, a graceful little chateau, is guarded by a single soldier. Nearby stands the striking new Museum of the History of Luxembourg City. Housed in a group of centuries-old buildings and the cellars beneath them, the museum is packed with exhibits and interactive audio-visual displays that bring to life the city's politics, culture and ideas. They fitted nicely with a rich show of Roman remains (yes, they were here, too) at the nearby National Museum of Art and History. 
A third ambitious museum, designed by I. M. Pei, is under construction to house the small national collection of modern art.
Crime rates are low and comfort levels are high, but with no university and no major home-grown theater, Luxembourg sometimes seems like an establishment in search of a counterculture. Big questions go unasked.
"It's a wonderful country," said Marita Ruiter, an Austrian-born art dealer who has lived in Luxembourg for many years. "It almost always catches the right train, but a lot of times it's late in boarding."
The Pei museum is being built into one of Vauban's bastions, where during World War II thousands of Luxembourgers hid from the Nazis in the tunnels linking the fortifications. Though much reduced in extent, the turrets and gates and walls of the Bock, the rocky promontory that was first fortified in the 10th century, still make an imposing picture when viewed from the cobblestoned corniche that is with some justice called Europe's most beautiful balcony.
During the Battle of the Bulge, in December 1944, Gen. George S. Patton Jr. had his headquarters in a hotel, now renamed the Grand Hotel Mercure Alfa, across the street from the Luxembourg City train station. "Old Blood and Guts," as the G.I.'s called him, is buried with 5,076 of them in an American military cemetery at the village of Hamm, just outside the city. His grave lies a bit apart from theirs, but the simple headstone is identical.
Led by powerful panzer divisions, the Germans attacked across the Our and Sure Rivers early on the morning of Dec. 16, hoping to punch through the thinly held American lines and roll across Luxembourg and Belgium to seize the port of Antwerp, a crucial link in the Allied supply chain. Hitler's last roll of the dice, the offensive caught the Americans flat-footed.
The first German objectives were the ridge along which National Route 7 ("the Skyline Drive" to the Americans) runs north from Luxembourg City into Belgium, and the area called Little Switzerland, an impossibly picturesque region of forests and gorges northeast of the capital where you expect to run across a battalion of trolls any minute.
Outnumbered five or ten to one, American units fought tenaciously, delaying the Germans for hours or days at places like the Parc Hotel, at Berdorf, and at the hamlet of Hosingen, an hour's drive from the capital. We visited unusually impressive war museums at Diekirch and Clervaux, but it was hard, amid the blooming tulips and the pastoral calm broken only by birdsong, to imagine the clamor of battle and visualize the cold, tired, dirty soldiers.
The Luxembourgers have never forgotten; at each combat site, we found flowers, flags and plaques, many bearing the crimson keystone of the 28th Division. That outfit, recruited originally in Pennsylvania, fought in Normandy and the Hurtgen Forest and lost so many men there and in the Bulge that people called its insignia "the bloody bucket." Eventually, of course, the Germans broke through. But by then the Allies had brought up reinforcements, notably the 101st Airborne, which staged an epic defense at the village of Bastogne, Belgium, about seven miles west of the Luxembourg border, whose nexus of roads made it important for the same reason as Gettysburg 80 years before.
And eventually, of course, the tide turned. The lead panzers were halted three miles short of the strategic bridges across the Meuse River, the last natural barrier on the road to Antwerp. The costs of battle were high. In six weeks of fighting, the Americans lost more than 80,000 men, either killed, wounded or captured, compared with more than 51,000 on both sides at Gettysburg. The Germans lost approximately 100,000, and Hitler never recovered.
While we tried to get a grip on the events of late 1944, Betsey and I kept stumbling across the vestiges of the old rural Luxembourg.
We idled away a few hours along the Moselle, watching swans and barges float past, listening to the shouts of kids playing soccer beneath the cherry trees, exploring the steeply terraced vineyards. Another day, we rambled through Little Switzerland, admiring the big stone barns as much as the celebrated gorges with moss-covered rocks overhanging the road.
The almost painfully quaint market square of Echternach, near Little Switzerland, is ringed with ancient shops and houses. The town is the site of an international music festival each spring (this year it begins May 8), and on a Tuesday two months after Easter its streets are filled by a procession of more than 10,000 dancers, linked by white handkerchiefs, all hopping madly along. This has been happening since the 15th century, in homage to St. Willibrord, a monk from the north of England. He founded an abbey at Echternach in 698 that produced some of Europe's most magnificent illuminated manuscripts, long since removed, sad to say, to wealthy museums in Germany and around the world.
One of Luxembourg's most distinguished sons was Edward Steichen, born in 1879, who emigrated to the United States with his family in 1882. A noted photographer himself, he mounted at the Museum of Modern Art in 1955 perhaps the greatest photographic exhibition ever, a panorama of human emotion that he called "The Family of Man" -- 503 photographs by 273 photographers from 68 countries. It has been permanently remounted, to quite splendid effect, in the 12th-century chateau at Clervaux.
Which leaves that castle we began with. Built during the transition from the Romanesque style to the Gothic, it crowns a bluff overhanging the little Our River and the steep streets of the village of Vianden. The builders combined round and pointed arches, conical roofs, stepped gables, a needlelike spire, narrow dormers and stout stone buttresses with dazzling success. A kind of inland Mont-St.-Michel, Vianden's castle is one of Europe's hidden treasures, especially spectacular when floodlit at night.
A stroll through the dark, quiet streets of the village, with the castle looming magnificently overhead, provided a fitting coda to our visit to the grand duchy. 

Medieval castles, military museums and tempting menus

Sightseeing
The Grand Ducal Palace, rue du Marche aux Herbes, (352) 22-28-09, is open mid-July through August weekday afternoons and Saturday morning. Admission $6.50. 
The National Museum of Art and History, Marche-aux-Poissons, (352) 47-93-30-1, is closed for renovations until this summer (date undetermined) except for the "Life in Luxembourg" section; open weekends. 
The new Museum of the History of Luxembourg City, rue du St.-Esprit 14, (352) 47-96-30-61, is open Tuesday to Sunday. Admission $7.50. 
The National Military Museum at Diekirch, rue Bamertal 10, (352) 80-89-08; open daily 2 to 6 p.m. in winter, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. April through October. Admission $5.70.
Clervaux Castle, (352) 92-96-57, with Steichen's "Family of Man" exhibit, is open Tuesday to Sunday; daily in July and August; $4.25. The Museum of the Battle of Ardennes is open daily; (352) 92-00-72; $1.50. 
Vianden Castle, (352) 84-92-91, is open daily. Admission $5.20. 

More information may be found at www.ont.lu and www.luxembourg-city.lu.

Hotels
The 210-room Royal, boulevard Royal 12, Luxembourg City, (352) 241-61-61, fax (352) 22-59-48, is the capital's best -- ultramodern, well managed, convenient to the shops and the Old Town, with multijet showers and faxes in deluxe rooms. Doubles $330. 
The more modest 60-room Cravat, boulevard Roosevelt 29, (352) 22-19-75, fax (352) 22-67-11, ideally placed near the cathedral, exudes Old World charm. Doubles $208. 
The 337-room Hilton, rue Jean Engling 12, (352) 4-37-81, fax (352) 43-60-95, near the European institutions (doubles $340; $130 weekends), and cozy 28-room Hostellerie du Grunewald, route d'Echternach 10-14, (352) 43-18-82, fax (352) 42-06-46, in the same area (doubles $145), are other good choices.
In the countryside, we liked the 13-room Gaichel, Maison 5, Gaichel, (352) 39-01-29, fax (352) 39-00-37, a lovingly refurbished old inn with golf and tennis facilities a few minutes' drive from Bastogne (doubles $135); the 39-room Bel Air, route de Berdorf 1, Echternach, (352) 72-93-83, fax (352) 72-86-94, a comfortable rural retreat at the edge of town, with wooded walking trails (doubles $135); and the clean, welcoming, plain-as-Jane Oranienburg, grand rue 126, Vianden, (352) 83-41-53, fax (352) 83-43-33, which is nestled beneath the castle. Doubles $95. 

Restaurants
Each of the following except Lea Linster has one Michelin star.
Clairefontaine, place de Clairefontaine 9, (352) 46-22-11, fax (352) 47-08-21, is the restaurant of choice in Luxembourg City. Featuring old-time dishes like meltingly tender shoulder of lamb and veal kidneys in mustard sauce, the menu will thrill those who have had enough nouvelle cuisine to last two lifetimes. Tables are well spaced, and the wine list is stuffed with mature red wines at fair if bankerly prices. Dinner for two, $205.
Lea Linster, route de Luxembourg 17, Frisange, (352) 66-84-11, fax (352) 40-67-66, is named after its chef, who won the Bocuse d'Or international cooking competition in 1989, the first woman ever to do so. Looking out across green fields on a rainy afternoon, we ate a warming bouillon of cepe mushrooms, followed by scrumptious roasted baby chicken with parsley worked under its skin and potatoes roasted in the drippings. They say great athletes play within themselves, never overreaching for effect, and that's just what Ms. Linster does in the kitchen. Dinner for two, $230. 
Gaichel (see Hotels section) has a handsome dining room with coffered ceilings. A luscious layered terrine of salmon and trout snapped us to attention, and a gamy-tasting duckling glazed with thyme honey, raised to order for the restaurant, kept us there. The endgame was even better: a rhubarb charlotte and gingerbread ice cream, which I'd been waiting for most of my life, and an oak-aged local Mirabelle. Dinner for two, $285.
La Table des Guilloux, rue Resistance 17, Schouweiler, (352) 37-00-08, fax (352) 37-11-61, is hard to find (ask for directions when you reserve) but well worth the effort. This is the tile-floored farmhouse of a thousand dreams, filled with painted furniture and old clocks, warmed by big fireplaces. On the menu: perfect Ardennes ham, as good as any prosciutto I've tasted; icy oysters from Brittany; extraordinary roast suckling veal from the Pyrenees, a far cry from our own wimpy, tasteless stuff. Dinner for two, $170. R. W. APPLE Jr.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 17 about Luxembourg misstated the name of an airline that offered cheap fares in the 1950's and used to travel there. It was Icelandic Airlines, not Airways.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Museum of the History of Luxembourg City, housed in centuries-old buildings. Arnaud Magnier, chef at Clairefontaine Restaurant. Place Guillaume II, where a flower and food market is set up on Wednesdays and Saturdays. (pg. 8); The turreted medieval castle at Vianden near the German border. Gen. George S. Patton's simple gravesite at the American military cemetery in the village of Hamm. (pg.9); La Table du Pain in the capital's Old Town.(pg.20); The Hotel Cravat, near the cathedral in Luxembourg City.(pg.20) (Jean-Erick Pasquier/Rapho, for The New York Times) Maps of Luxembourg highlighting Luxembourg City (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: LUXEMBOURG (94%); ICELAND (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (91%); BELGIUM (90%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) LUXEMBOURG

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



405 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report; 
Sri Lanka Seeks Ways To Win Back Visitors

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
WHEN an island nation relies on airlines to supply 99.9 percent of its tourists, terrorist acts involving planes can devastate the travel industry. Sri Lanka discovered this last year. The Indian Ocean nation, formerly called Ceylon and known for its uncommon physical beauty and high-quality tea, now begins the long climb back -- with a chance to reinvent itself.
 Two decades of civil war beginning in the early 1980's weakened the tourist trade, but by 1999 Sri Lanka had managed to recover. That year 436,440 tourists came, breaking the record set in 1982. In 2000, the number dipped slightly, to 400,414, after a spate of political violence, including an assassination attempt on President Chandrika Kumaratunga in December 1999. But 2001 got off to a very strong start. 
 On July 24, however, an ethnic Tamil rebel army from the north struck the Sri Lankan air force base and the adjacent international airport in a daring predawn raid at Katunayake, near Colombo, the capital. No tourists were killed, but a third of the nation's airline fleet was destroyed or damaged along with several military aircraft -- and prospective visitors around the world canceled in droves. Monthly tourist arrivals through June ran as much as 15 percent higher than in 2000, the Sri Lanka Tourist Board said; the numbers plunged by 14 percent in July and 54 percent in August from their levels 12 months before.
Then came Sept. 11. The attacks on the United States sped up the collapse of tourism in Sri Lanka. September arrivals fell by 64 percent from the same month in 2000, and hotel occupancy rates were down to 30 percent or lower. Visits in October were down by 51 percent and those in November (the last month for which figures are available) by 46 percent. December is also expected to show a decline, though less precipitous. Winter is Sri Lanka's high season, and figures for these months will be a bellwether.
North and northeastern Sri Lanka are effectively off limits to tourists because they are simply too dangerous or undeveloped. Situated off the southeastern tip of India, the nation has 19 million people and a varied topography, from beaches to forested mountains in the south-central areas to a dry northern plain. For a country of its size -- about as big as Ireland -- it has about a dozen game parks or nature reserves, a first-class tropical botanical garden near Kandy, and a large collection of ancient Buddhist statuary, monastic sites and cave paintings.
The tourism industry is looking for ways not only to bring back traditional visitors -- the majority from western Europe, led by Britain (the former colonial power) and Germany -- but also to attract newcomers from areas like eastern Europe and Russia. Hoteliers are also hoping to see a revival in Asian travel, which has slumped since the regional economic crisis of the late 1990's. Visits by Americans and Canadians, on the rise until last year, still account for less than 5 percent of tourist arrivals. Religious attacks that killed several hundred Muslims in India after the deaths of 58 Hindus in the burning of a train on Feb. 27 are expected to have little or no effect in Sri Lanka, although the Sri Lankans have been trying to attract more Indian tourists.
Renton de Alwis, the chairman of the Sri Lanka Tourist Board until this month, said that the country was studying Bhutan's experience with high-end tourism in the Eastern Himalayas rather than developing new mass package tours. The country also expects to promote additional cultural and ecological tourism. It is encouraging the opening of more ayurvedic-herbal spas and luxury resorts; two luxurious Aman hotels are being planned.
Amid all the bad news last year, there were some upbeat figures that might have gone unnoticed in better times. The tourist board's generally meticulous statistics reveal that tourism actually increased in the cultural triangle -- the area enclosed by three ancient Buddhist capitals: Kandy, Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa -- as well as in the cool tea plantation region in the middle of the island, most notably in the hill station of Nuwara Eliya. Colombo, too, maintained some growth in tourism.
Most remarkably, tourists have also begun returning in small numbers to Trincomalee, until recently cut off by the war between Tamil militants and the Sri Lankan army, which is dominated by the country's Sinhalese majority. Trincomalee, on the northeast coast, has one of Asia's largest natural harbors and Sri Lanka's best beaches. It has never been developed for tourism, which only adds to its appeal. Almost all of Sri Lanka's beach resorts are on the west or southwest coasts.
A cease-fire negotiated by Norway and monitored by the Scandinavian countries is now in effect between the government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, the rebel army. If peace holds, more of the country, including the old city of Jaffna in the north, will open to travelers.
Mr. de Alwis echoed other tourism officials in saying that the caution born of bad tourist seasons had prevented overbuilding resorts or ruining large areas of natural scenery. "We have retained our exotic nature," he said, "and had time to learn from others' mistakes."

GRAPHIC: Map: A map of the island nation SRI Lanka. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); LODGING (89%); TOURISM (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICS (74%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); RELIGION (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%) SRI LANKA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



406 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
State's Commercial Property Market Holds Up Well

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
TWENTY years ago, when I was a banker," recalled David Csontos, a managing director at Insignia/ESG, "real estate was a bad sector. Everybody was scrambling to get out."
 Now -- in New Jersey, at least -- said Mr. Csontos, who specializes in advising those thinking of investing in commercial real estate, it is the opposite. Investors are elbowing each other to get in. 
 With the rate of return on stock market investment somewhere between rotten and "recovering," and bonds generating an anemic 3 to 5 percent, commercial real estate has taken on luster as a stable, advantageous investment, according to people in the field. 
Two weeks ago, Lincoln Equities Group made one of the largest investment purchases of 2002 to date, acquiring two buildings with 236,961 of Class A space at One Centennial Plaza in Piscataway for $26 million. Both buildings are both fully leased for 10 years, to the Great West Life and Annuity Insurance Company and American Standard.
"We purchased one of the most desirable office buildings in Middlesex County," said Joel Bergstein, a partner at Lincoln Equities. "After looking carefully and hard at an unstable marketplace, we bought a high-quality asset with a stable cash flow."
Mr. Bergstein said that his company's investment criteria have completely changed from a year ago, when the emphasis was on "opportunity." Then, Lincoln Equities focused on finding buildings with some vacancies, but with potential for an increasing rate of return. 
"In today's market," Mr. Bergstein said, "you are not able to say when a vacant property will be leased, so we liked the fact that One Centennial has long-term tenants." 
Mr. Bergstein said Lincoln Equities expected the economy to improve over the next year or two. The company plans to build a mixed portfolio -- adding additional stable real-estate investments and others that are riskier. But Mr. Bergstein said the portfolio would continue to grow.
Growth is the trend in the market for commercial spaces, said Mr. Csontos, both in the New Jersey investment market and nationally. In February, he attended an annual conference staged by the Mortgage Bankers Association, at which more than 20 lenders met with capital advisers.
"Without exception, every lender was putting more money into real estate for 2002 than in 2001," Mr. Csontos said, "with growth of between 5 and 25 percent." 
"Notwithstanding a slowdown in the general marketplace, investors are committed to our sector."
Why are they committed? Mr. Csontos and other real estate market professionals offered a bouquet of reasons.
David Simson, the president of GVA Williams of New Jersey, said: "The whole image and persona of the state has elevated, changing from warehouse-industrial to service provider. We've come to a point where New Jersey is perceived by investors as a place where they should do business." 
Rental rates are holding up, and vacancy rates are staying down in the state, he noted. The Grubb & Ellis/Frank Knight year-end report, among others, documented that trend. It said that while some United States cities -- especially high-tech centers like San Francisco -- reported steep declines in rent at the end of last year, rent for prime office space was up 1.3 percent in north and central New Jersey for the last quarter of 2001 compared with 2000.
In the course of 2001, the vacancy rate for commercial office space here rose only 1 percentage point, to 12.8 percent, the report said.
In addition, a great deal of capital became available for investment. A group of factors, including the Sept. 11 devastation of New York's financial district, the decline of technology stocks and the downsizing of corporate America, pushed a great deal of money "to the sidelines," Mr. Simson said. 
"And interest rates are the lowest they have been in 40 years," he said. "People have the ability to leverage their assets with real estate investment -- getting returns that provide a stabilized income." 
Information Age technology has also greatly increased lenders' confidence in real estate as an investment, Mr. Simson added. 
Mr. Csontos put it this way: "It used to be scratch and dig, to find out what was going on. You had to talk to five different real estate companies like us to find out about the situation on the commercial market. Now, we have all kinds of databases available instantly."
Jon Mikula, senior director of Holliday Fenoglio Fowler of New Jersey, said: "Lenders now know right away when a market is getting out of hand. Anybody can go online right now and pull up the vacancy rate in Parsippany, if they want to."
When overbuilding is avoided, the vacancy rate remains reasonable, and the market holds steady. 
DESPITE general upheaval after Sept. 11 and the huge amount of sublease space thrown on the market, investing has "stayed true to course," Mr. Mikula said. For example, in the months after the attack on the World Trade Center, his firm was nevertheless able to arrange $28 million in fixed rate financing for Matrix Development Group's purchase of the Legal Center building in Newark.
"It was a challenging transaction, in Newark -- where some lenders won't go, at least until downtown becomes more of a 24-7 type of place -- and the seller was the Port Authority, which was in tremendous turmoil because of what happened in New York," Mr. Mikula said. "Despite all that, we closed by the end of the year.' 
Actually, lenders are often "wrestling" for investment opportunities in this climate, Mr. Mikula said, since the volume of sales activity is down from recent boom years. Given that, and the lower interest rate climate, investors have been moved to be increasingly flexible and creative.
For example, since many lending institutions now limit loans to developers to 65 or 70 percent of the cost of a project -- when it used to be 80 percent -- creative investors are making "mezzanine" loans for the difference, Mr. Mikula said, and charging a higher rate of interest. He quoted the prevailing interest rate on fixed-rate first mortgage loans as 7 to 7.25 percent, while mezzanine loans are earning 10 to 15 percent.
The smaller investor's market scene is similar, according to other experts.
"A lot of smaller companies, professional firms and individuals are looking to buy buildings because money is so cheap right now," said Suzanne Macnow, a broker with CB Richard Ellis. "A lot of tenants are looking to buy. Demand definitely exceeds supply."
Ms. Macnow said she recently marketed a 50,000-square-foot Class B office building in Monmouth County -- "nothing great" -- and showed it to 20 potential investors. "There were nine offers in two weeks," she said. "Almost half the people who saw it gave offers."
She canvassed the 28 tenants of a commercial building in Red Bank, looking for people who wanted to sublease space -- and found four who wanted to buy their own buildings.
Of course, current conditions will change and fluctuate.
"No market is untouchable," said Christopher Kinum, a Cushman & Wakefield managing director. "We have had a number of major companies with significant employee reductions. That creates space, which in turn causes downward pressure on rents."
Mr. Kinum said that 5-, 10- and 15-year leases written in the 90's would eventually expire. Rising vacancy rates will then have an impact.
Citing the conventional wisdom that the real estate market experiences a three-to six-month delayed reaction to economic change, Mr. Kinum and others predicted a flattening of returns on investment in the second and third quarters of this year and a fourth quarter upturn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Bergstein at One Centennial Plaza, Piscataway. The mirrored building holds American Standard. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TRENDS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); CASH FLOW (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; REAL ESTATE 

COMPANY: GREAT-WEST LIFE & ANNUITY INSURANCE CO (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



407 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: LIFE'S WORK; 
For Women, the Price of Success

BYLINE:  By LISA BELKIN; This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT has been four years since Sylvia Ann Hewlett set out to write a book celebrating the achievements of what she calls "the breakthrough generation" -- women facing 50 at the millennium who "broke through the barriers and became powerful figures in fields previously dominated by men." She started on her project by interviewing high-achieving, high-earning women like Jessye Norman, Diane Sawyer and Donna Shalala. 
 Several months into her work, however, her project ceased to feel like a celebration. All the women she had interviewed had one unexpected thing in common: childlessness. So Ms. Hewlett, founder of the National Parenting Association and author of "The War Against Parents" (Houghton Mifflin, 1998) spent the next four years interviewing 100 successful women and conducting a statistical study of hundreds more. The result was "Creating A Life: Professional Women and the Quest for Children," to be released by Talk Miramax Books next month. 
 What Ms. Hewlett found has seismic implications. The more successful the woman, the less likely she is to have children. Forty-two percent of women in corporate America are childless, she writes, and 49 percent of women in the "top echelons" of their careers are. This childlessness, she says, is not a choice (only 14 percent chose not to have children) but an unintended side effect of women's full-force entry into the workplace. 
"Why is it," she asks, "that women can increasingly be astronauts, C.E.O.'s and even Secretary of State, but often cannot fulfill their ambitions on the family front?" She quotes Judy Friedlander, dean of the graduate faculty at New School University, as saying they have made a "creeping non-choice" -- by concentrating on their careers through their 30's, they have closed doors that can no longer be opened in their 40's. (Ms. Hewlett devotes several chapters to the fact that the promise of reproductive technology provides more heartache than hope for most women in their 40's.)
Ms. Hewlett herself is an example of the clash between motherhood and work. A graduate of Cambridge and Harvard, she was working as an assistant professor of economics at Barnard College in 1977 when she took only 10 days off to have her first child. Two years later, while working the grueling schedule of a candidate for tenure, she miscarried twins six months into a second pregnancy. She was turned down for tenure and says she was told she had "allowed childbearing to dilute my focus."
Her second child was born two years later and her third arrived four years after that. By then she had taken what she describes as a "glamorous plum of a job" as the executive director of the private Economic Policy Council, but resigned the week of her 39th birthday because she could not do justice to both that job and her family. She went on to write books, begin the Parenting Association and give birth five years ago today, at age 51, to her youngest daughter, conceived after years of infertility treatment.
Ms. Hewlett offers us her life story as but one of example of how success is incompatible with being a mother. To those who would dismiss her story saying "you can't have it all," she points out that success is hardly incompatible with being a father. "The more successful the man, the more likely he is to be married with children," she writes. "One pair of figures from corporate America says it all: 49 percent of 40-year-old women executives earning $100,000 or more a year are childless while only 10 percent of 40-year-old male executives in an equivalent earnings bracket do not have children."
Luciano Pavarotti, she says, has a "megawatt career," yet "he has had two wives and two sets of children, so why can't Jessye Norman have the same multidimensional life?" She tells the story of Wendy Wasserstein, the Pulitzer Prize winning playwright who finally became pregnant after years of infertility treatments, then gave birth to a daughter prematurely because of age-related pregnancy complications. While Ms. Wasserstein's daughter was fighting for life in the I.C.U., her investment banker brother was across the hall with his second wife who was giving birth to his fifth child.
I read Ms. Hewlett's book with sadness. In the world she describes, it is too late for 40-year-old women to reclaim the other half of their lives. Ms. Hewlett, however, sees "powerful good news" behind the numbers. My generation thought they had all the time in the world and learned they did not, she says, but the coming generation can study our lessons and be forearmed. 
"Be as intentional and strategic about your private life as you are about your work life," she says. "Think of where you want to be at 45 when you are still in your 20's, then get yourself there."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FAMILY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); MEN (72%); PARENTING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); ACADEMIC TENURE (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MISCARRIAGES (60%) REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); BOOKS AND LITERATURE; LABOR; WOMEN 

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (56%) HEWLETT, SYLVIA ANN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CREATING A LIFE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



408 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2370 words

HEADLINE: Imagine Central Park In Saffron 

BYLINE:  By AMEI WALLACH 

 BODY:
CHRISTO calls Jeanne-Claude "Amour." When he is agitated, which is often, he calls her "Cherie," as in "Nononono, Cherie!" When he decides to let her win, he says "Madam." Then he kisses her. It is necessary for him to do this carefully, since she wears a wide slash of Orange Slip lipstick, which she reapplies often. The lipstick is calculated to clash with her hair, which is a species of the bordello red once standard in B westerns.
 "Nononono, Cherie, please!" Christo is saying one recent afternoon in their downtown Manhattan digs. He is vainly trying to deter Jeanne-Claude from emptying the contents of a bulky manila folder labeled "The Gates, Project for Central Park, New York City" onto a coffee table laden with books about their monumental art projects. 
 Christo doesn't really want to talk about "The Gates" right now. He'd rather talk about "Christo and Jeanne-Claude in the Vogel Collection," a four-decade survey of their work currently at the National Gallery in Washington. There one can see photographs and drawings of the Reichstag they wrapped with silvery fabric, of the 11 islands in Biscayne Bay, Florida, they surrounded with hot-pink cloth, and the 1,340 blue umbrellas they deployed across the rice paddies of Japan. 
But "The Gates" is too irresistible to ignore. Christo and Jeanne-Claude propose to festoon 26 miles of Central Park's walkways in swatches of translucent saffron fabric supported by thousands of metal gates. They first conceived the project in 1979, and though it was rejected in 1981, they have never given up on it. Now its fortunes could change, in large part because of the election of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
Mr. Bloomberg was a supporter of the project in private life, and he has already begun to let artworks reach farther into the park as part of the current Whitney Biennial. All at once, in a city determined to re-energize tourism after the attacks of Sept. 11, a boffo attraction might not be such a bad idea.
Other things, too, have changed since 1981. In an art world awash in performance and installations, Christo and Jeanne-Claude's panoramic collaborations no longer appear to be bizarre exceptions, though the very fact of the pair's celebrity continues to make them suspect to many art insiders. And the view that huge crowds are anathema to Central Park has shifted as well, now that rock stars and the Disney corporation have staged extravaganzas there.
Drawings for the Central Park project show a meandering trail of 11,000 rectangular steel gates, each 15 feet tall with a free-hanging panel of material waving from the top. The gates would begin at the park's pedestrian entrances and continue at nine-foot intervals. Viewed from a distance, the billowing cloth would outline the park's cat's cradle of winding promenades, which Christo describes as "very Victorian, roundish." "The Gates" is designed to be installed for two weeks in the winter, after the New York City Marathon and before the forsythia blooms.
The mayor can't single-handedly make "The Gates" happen, and whether it will is still a delicate matter. All he can do is suggest a strategy, open doors and lead the way. It will take all of Christo and Jeanne-Claude's considerable capacity for seducing, cajoling, badgering, politicking and educating to win the support of the five community boards surrounding the park, the parks commissioner and a healthy majority of the Central Park Conservancy, the nonprofit group that manages and supports the park.
"Central Park is like the Mona Lisa of landscape architecture," says Christo. "The conservative vision is that the park should be closed like the Metropolitan Museum. If they had a chance they would charge for tickets, like a museum. On the liberal side, the park is the only place where underprivileged people can go in the summertime; the only place."
Jeanne-Claude, who like her husband goes by one name, interjects: "They don't have a house in the Hamptons." She is perched at the edge of the herring-bone tweed sofa, which Christo leans against, preferring a seat on the floor.
They have yet to approach Mayor Bloomberg directly, though they were invited to his inauguration.
"I think that it is decent to let him do his very hard work first, because no mayor of New York City has ever had such problems," Jeanne-Claude says.
"Horrible, horrible," Christo says.
They are all too aware of the difficulties they face, including the fact that the 1979 cost estimate -- $8 million, and who knows how much now -- raises hackles, even though the couple finance all their projects themselves from sales of Christo's work. They do not accept donations; they do not take public money. To do so would compromise their artistic control.
Last time around, there were irate letters to the editor and two negative editorials in The New York Times. One, in October 1980, appeared under the headline "A Philistine Shrug for a Droopy Idea."
"Central Park needs loving hands of restoration, not exploitation," the editorial said.
In rebuttal, the art historian Leo Steinberg wrote in The Times, "Those who have followed Christo's work know that every one of his projects, once realized, engendered joy and elation, and that every one of them is resisted initially with sanctimonious appeals to higher ideals, such as economy or the inviolability of nature and art."
It was to no avail. The next year, Gordon J. Davis, then Commissioner of the Department of Parks and Recreation, turned down "The Gates" in a 107-page document that he has called "a major statement of philosophy and principles governing stewardship of Central Park."
The turndown did not stop the Christos, as they are collectively called, although his family name is Javacheff. They turned their focus elsewhere; they are accustomed to projects that take time to mature. It took 24 years and the fall of the Soviet empire to get the permissions that led to the "Wrapped Reichstag" in 1995, when five million visitors went to view the emblem of Germany's cataclysmic history swathed in a million square feet of billowing silvery drapery.
"We used to say that we have to live with the consequences of the 'Wrapped Reichstag' on our shoulders," Jeanne-Claude says. She pauses theatrically. "People were telling us, 'We do not want five million visitors here.' Now, I do not believe that the City of New York in the present situation does not want visitors, and a good influx of visitors."
Christo and Jeanne-Claude have lived and worked in a former industrial building a block north of Canal Street since 1968, the year they proposed wrapping the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum and No. 1 Times Square. None of those projects were realized. In fact, there has never been a Christo and Jeanne-Claude project in New York City, even though they like to say: "We don't live in America at all. We live in New York, Manhattan."
They were born on the same day, June 13, 1935; he, the son of the owner of a small chemical factory (later nationalized under communism) in Bulgaria; she, who became the step-daughter of a French general, in Morocco. She's the pedagogue, driving home sound bites with pointed fingers, repeating them in case you didn't get it the first time. He's the dreamer, the artist in the pre-Warhol sense, romantic and visionary, with fly-away hair. The new United States edition of their biography, "Christo and Jeanne-Claude," by Burt Chernow (St. Martin's Press), tells it all.
"People don't know us," Jeanne-Claude says. "We told Burt things as personal as if he had been sleeping with us." It is an authorized biography; the Christos provided the photographs from their archives and hold the rights.
After enduring the standard Socialist Realist art education, Christo smuggled himself out of Bulgaria in 1957 in a freight car. He met Jeanne-Claude de Guillebon the following year in Paris, where the penniless but hunky emigre bedded, impregnated (the result is their son, Cyril) and eventually wed her. She knew nothing about art. He became her tutor. And then, as his art became more ambitious and environmental, as it expanded the themes of border crossings, fragility and transience that had marked both their lives, she became his collaborator.
In the old days, before feminism, Christo stood on lecture stages alone and signed the work alone on the theory that no one would permit a woman to work on the scale they did. In 1994, they went public and began to sign work together. Basically, if it's indoors and handmade, it's by Christo; if it's outdoors, it's by Christo and Jeanne-Claude.
Their Barnum & Bailey impulses to "borrow a space and create gentle disturbances for a few days," as Christo puts it, are not inexpensive. The "Wrapped Reichstag" cost the artists $13 million; "The Umbrellas," $26 million. To pay for their projects the Christos borrow from the bank through their C.V.J. Corporation and pay it back by selling art. Preliminary drawings for "The Gates," for example, go for up to $260,000 each. After the completion of each project, they mount a traveling exhibition of drawings, collages, engineering studies, fabric samples, scale models and photographs. The Smithsonian American Art Museum is trying to raise $7 million to acquire the 349-piece "Running Fence" exhibition (24 miles of nylon fencing the color of wave caps that marched across Northern California ranch land to the sea in 1976) for the museum's re-opening in 2005.
The Christos find it necessary to repeat endlessly that they pay for their projects themselves because they do them for themselves. They do them to see how it will look and feel. No photograph can suggest the experience of a Christo and Jeanne-Claude project in real time. Everything is present at once: landscape, weather, history, politics, emotion, quixotic human encounters and instantaneous changes in the quality of light, as if from inside an Impressionist painting.
For the 1969 "Wrapped Coast, Little Bay, One Million Feet, Australia," they swaddled the craggy coast in a sand-colored fabric that they call Erosion Control. For the 1972 "Valley Curtain, Grand Hogback, Rifle, Colorado," they hung an orange curtain that reached 365 feet high across a gap in the Grand Hogback Mountain Range. They garbed the Pont Neuf in Paris in 454,178 square feet of chic champagne-hued cloth and simultaneously dispersed 1,340 blue umbrellas across the rice paddies of Ibaraki, Japan, and 1,760 yellow umbrellas across the sere hills of Southern California.
"Our art has absolutely no purpose, except to be a work of art," says Jeanne-Claude. "We do not give messages."
"It is absolutely irrational," says Christo, whose formative experiences in Bulgaria left him with an aversion to anything bearing the least resemblance to agit-prop. There, for a time, it was his task to construct Potemkin Village situations along the railroad, hiding the misery of the collective countryside. Now his projects have the opposite effect. They reveal the systems that govern their sites: the effect of Germany's past on its future at the Reichstag, environmental emergencies in Biscayne Bay.
The Christos are an act, and they take it on the road. They have perfected the long process through which they try, person by person, power group by power group, to get the permissions and money they need to complete their projects. They lecture (they will be at the Guggenheim Museum on May 7), wine and dine the influential, the suspicious and the sympathetic, meet with politicians, community boards, engineers and environmental groups. Their museum exhibitions are usually for a cause: to persuade people to do a project, to document it when it is over or to sell work.
The National Gallery show, through June 23, offers a rare opportunity to see "The Gates" in the context of all the Christos' projects. The show is a tribute to their friends of 30 years, the collectors Herbert and Dorothy Vogel, whose idea it was. In 1991, the museum acquired the Vogels' collection of more than 2,000 contemporary artworks, including many by the Christos.
For four years in the 1960's, Christo constructed miniature, and then larger, storefronts. Their windows were draped in fabric and often lighted from within, suggesting intimate mysteries and disengaging the work from the "commodifying" that many other artists also shunned at the time. Two of the little-known storefronts with which he made his solo debut at the Leo Castelli Gallery in 1966 introduce the National Gallery show.
The wrapped packages in the exhibition -- including one from 1961 which preceded the Christos to the United States -- are touchingly pathetic, poetic and handmade, like the prized possessions of 20th-century refugees, with whom Christo and Jeanne-Claude still strongly identify.
The drawings, for all their insouciance, are working documents, conceptual in purpose, assembled with relevant engineering studies, contour maps, street plans. Among these are plans for their other current venture, "Over the River, Project for the Arkansas River, Colorado." For that, they propose to roof a 40-mile section of the river with intermittent segments of shimmering transparent panels, which will be experienced differently from cars passing above or from rafts below. "Over the River" is currently making its slow way through the environmental assessment stage. Thus far it has cost the Christos $1.75 million.
At home in Manhattan, drawings for "The Gates" fill the wall behind the sofa; drawings for "Over the River" face it. In a sense it is a race to determine which has the best possibility of getting the go-ahead first: Eastern or Western, urban or rural.
"At the start of a project we never know what it is," Christo says. "And this is so exciting, because the permitting process gives all the soul, all the energy to the work. It is not invented by us."
In the meantime they are setting about beguiling and converting the necessary "shakers and movers," as Christo calls them.
"As we get older and Christo's hair turns gray and mine turns red, and people know us a little better, it doesn't make things easier to show our previous work," says Jeanne-Claude. "They just express themselves differently. Now they say, 'What you do is marvelous, but please not here!' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Gates" at Central Park, in a drawing at the National Gallery. (National Gallery of Art, Washington)(pg.1); "Wrapped Book," 1973, by Christo. (Christo/National Gallery of Art, Washington)(pg.37); Christo, left, and Jeanne-Claude at the National Gallery of Art, in front of photographs of their wrapped Reichstag in Berlin, left, and their wrapped Pont Neuf in Paris. (Agence France-Presse)(pg.37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); PAINTING (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MAYORS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) ART 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (93%) NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC) 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) JEANNE-CLAUDE (ARTIST); WALLACH, AMEI; CHRISTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (67%) CENTRAL PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



409 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Into Africa 

BYLINE:  By ADAM BOWLES 

 BODY:
FOR several years Nitzy Cohen-Fitzgerald, owner of International Basics, a company in Westport, tried doing business in Africa.
But poor communications -- it was hard to reach the proper contacts by phone and few businessmen had fax machines -- and little government help at either end kept her from doing so.
 But in 1999, a forum presented by the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development allowed her to finally connect with a Ghanaian man who eventually purchased a cocoa-processing machine from her. Today, she retains the marketing rights to the cocoa powder and butter that will be produced at the plant. Her business exports agricultural commodities and turnkey food processing plants. 
 "I'm a small company so it would be inefficient for me to do business in Western countries; Cargill and ConAgra would eat me alive," Ms. Cohen-Fitzgerald said of the international companies that sell food products. "I can only go to places where it is harder to do business, but where the personal touch would make the deal go. I tried Africa so many times knowing that this was the last frontier." 
Ms. Cohen-Fitzgerald's business, which has worked in Eastern Europe for its first six years of operation, is not the only Connecticut company finding trade success in Africa. A modest, but steadily growing number of small- to mid-sized private companies are working with Africa, a direct result of the state's Africa Trade Initiative. 
In 1999, the Department of Economic and Community Development began the initiative, a market development plan for sub-Saharan Africa that complements existing trade programs in Argentina, Brazil, China, Israel, Germany, Mexico and Turkey. Since then, 40 Connecticut companies, or about 10 new companies each year, have begun trade with Africa. 
Of Africa's $80 billion in annual imports, United States companies account for only $6 billion of the market, having traditionally ceded most of it to Europe and Asia. Connecticut, the 25th largest exporting state to all countries, accounts for about $60 million, or less than 1 percent, of the United States' share of that market. Over all, Connecticut's exports to 120 countries total about $8.4 billion, according to the D.E.C.D.
Still, the awareness of trade opportunities between Connecticut and Africa is growing.
In late February, the state played host to what has become an increasingly popular forum on economic development in Africa. More than 300 people, including the ambassadors of Tanzania and Kenya, diplomats from Nigeria and Ghana, a delegation from South Africa, and dozens of representatives from Connecticut businesses, attended the event.
James Nicholas, D.E.C.D. director of Africa and trade marketing, said although the majority of sub-Saharan Africa remains underdeveloped and lacks infrastructure, regulations and a reliable banking system, the state is convinced that Africa is ripe for business thanks to new federal and state laws.
The federal African Growth and Opportunity Act of 2000 provides favorable export benefits to African nations that reform their economies to become more open. So far, 35 sub-Saharan nations have been deemed eligible for A.G.O.A. 
Mustafa Nyang'anyi, Ambassador of Tanzania, said Connecticut was at the top of a list of states, such as Texas, Georgia and Pennsylvania, that have a proven, successful trade partnership with countries in Africa. Mr. Nyang'anyi added that while A.G.O.A. provided the legal framework that allowed greater trade success between the United States and Africa, negative perceptions of the continent remain a significant obstacle. 
"They shouldn't be led to a perception from the bad news that emanates from Africa that the whole continent is in a chaotic situation," he said. "Far from it." He said only seven of the 52 nations in Africa are hot spots.
Many other nations are stable. Tanzania, for example, has not experienced any political upheaval since it gained independence in 1961, he said. Since that time, several Connecticut investors entered the gold mining industry there. 
And, he added, American businesses are getting returns of 28 to 30 percent on their investments, compared with returns of 12 to 15 percent in most other places of the world. 
"The cost of living index in Africa is far lower than many parts of the world," Mr. Nyang'anyi said. "Labor costs are very low. Therefore, they have the maximum return on their investments even though they are paying better salaries than the average worker in a public firm in Africa."
Mr. Nyang'anyi said most African countries participate in the World Bank's Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, which prohibits governments from nationalizing or misappropriating private property. 
In 1997, Gov. John G. Rowland signed into law An Act Concerning Connecticut Trade With Africa, which mandated that D.E.C.D. and the Connecticut Development Authority provide financial and technical assistance to small- and medium-sized companies that want to do business in Africa.
"We're hoping to increase the number of small business companies that actively participate in Africa," Mr. Nicholas said. "There has been so much misinformation about Africa. They viewed it as a pariah continent, rather than one that provides opportunity."
Connecticut's trade initiative targets the 48 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Many of these countries have created sub-regional free-trade areas and customs unions. Mr. Nicholas said Connecticut businesses should view this region as a trading block with significant market opportunities. There are approximately 700 million people in Africa's middle class.
The Economic Community of West African States has 17 countries, a population of more than 208 million people and a Gross Domestic Product of more than $76 billion. The Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa has 20 countries, approximately 300 million people and a G.D.P. of $55.6 billion. And the Southern African Development Community has 133 million people and a G.D.P. of more than $170 billion.
About 75 percent of Connecticut's exports to Africa go to South Africa. The state also trades with Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda and Nigeria. Among those exports are airplane parts and airplane maintenance diagnostic equipment, chemicals, paper packaging, electronics and computers.
United Technologies in Hartford exports elevators and air conditioning equipment to South Africa; Tyres 2000 Limited in Hebron has sold tires in West Africa; Xerox in Stamford exports office automation equipment and HSBC Equator (USA) Inc., in Glastonbury exports financial services. Also, First International Bank in Hartford is a leading United States export-import bank lender in Africa.
Smaller Connecticut companies are also getting into the act, though their sales only slightly affects the total value of exports to Africa. 
AQSolutions in New Haven is one example. After the D.E.C.D. officials introduced Awo Quason-Sackey to sources for financing, she left her job as an executive at United Technologies one year ago to start the information technology business, which provides software development offshore.
"I always wanted to do something that would connect the U.S. and my home country," said Ms. Quason-Sackey, a Ghanaian native. She built a software development center in Accra, Ghana, where 25 of her 30 employees work on code for software programs used by Connecticut companies. 
One of her biggest barriers to business is the unfamiliarity Connecticut businesses have toward Africa. "The first question people ask when they come here is, 'Where is Ghana?' and we have to bring out a map," she said. "After we get past all that stuff, they ask if there is an education system that supports this. It is amazing about how much people don't know about Africa. All we hear about is coup d'etat, AIDS, famine and war. Africa becomes a continent to help as opposed as a continent to contribute."
Ms. Quason-Sackey received her law degree from the University of Ghana in 1975 and her master's degrees in business and law from Temple University in 1978. 
Ms. Quason-Sackey added that though she pays the Ghanaian workers relatively high wages by their standards, labor costs are low enough that she is able to offer products at a much cheaper price than her competitors.
"There's so much opportunity there for people willing to explore," she said. 
New cultural ties are also expected to strengthen business relationships between Africa and Connecticut. In 1999, the African National Congress, which led the struggle against apartheid in South Africa and is the ruling party there, selected the University of Connecticut as its partner in documenting and archiving its history.
Mr. Nicholas said the A.N.C.-UConn partnership should lead to better business contacts on both sides.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Awo Quason-Sackey, born in Ghana, is president of an information technology business that provides software development offshore. (C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); FOOD MFG (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BASICS (CO) 

PERSON: COHEN-FITZGERALD, NITZY; BOWLES, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (99%); GHANA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KENYA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%) AFRICA; CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



410 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: LIPA Is Adding Juice But Is Still Thirsty 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
Although electrical capacity is likely to expand by about 15 percent this summer, Long Island may still face shortages, Richard M. Kessel, chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, said last week.
 Mr. Kessel, speaking to the Hauppauge Industrial Association, said the authority would immediately need the planned 730 new megawatts -- 400 megawatts from 10 small on-Island generators and 330 megawatts from a new cross-Sound cable -- to get through the summer. 
 He also said that the Island could not risk depending on private companies to build additional plants needed in the next several years. The authority must aggressively seek a private partner, he said, to build a 500- to 600-megawatt power plant at a yet-to-be-determined location for service by 2005 or 2006. 
The new plant was necessary, he said, because private power companies were canceling projects in many parts of the country because of the economic slowdown, changes in the energy industry and skittishness among investors in the wake of the Enron collapse. He said three companies proposing plants on Long Island might also withdraw, as they had elsewhere. 
Mr. Kessel spoke to the Hauppauge association on Tuesday, a day after the authority and KeySpan Energy agreed to renegotiate and postpone for three years an authority option to buy all 47 KeySpan plants on Long Island. As he has before, Mr. Kessel painted a grim picture of the Island's energy situation.
"Do not believe those who say the energy crisis is over," he told the group. "It is not. We are going to have a tough, tight summer this year."
Mr. Kessel said that even with an additional 400 megawatts of power from 10 small power generators now being built and 330 megawatts that would be imported to Shoreham on the Trans-Energie cross-Sound cable from New London, Conn., the authority would be hard-pressed to meet summer peak demand that he estimated would exceed 5,000 megawatts for the first time.
If demand were to outstrip supply there would be conservation programs and public appeals to reduce electric use, and, potentially, blackouts, rolling blackouts or brownouts.
"We're going to blow by 5,000 megawatts this summer if we have any hot weather, and that's a number we didn't even think we would reach in 2008," Mr. Kessel said, citing an earlier authority projection that peak demand in 2008 would reach 4,795 megawatts.
He said that despite the events of Sept. 11 and the national economic slowdown, electricity demand on Long Island had continued to grow this year at what may be a record pace.
Authority figures showed that commercial demand increased 21.5 megawatts from January to last week, while earlier projections were for growth of 24 megawatts for the entire year.
Joseph S. Fitzpatrick, a senior vice president for American National Power, which is seeking state and federal approvals to build a 580-megawatt power plant in Yaphank, said such a rise in demand showed why Long Island remained attractive to private power companies, even as they pulled back elsewhere in the country. 
"That's the point," Mr. Fitzpatrick said. "There is no one who knows this market who thinks that downstate New York, including Long Island, has ample capacity." He said his company was moving ahead with its plans in Yaphank. 
At the same time, the authority is rushing to bring its own 10 small generators on line. The generators, powered by gas and oil, which will produce 44 megawatts for single units and up to 79 megawatts for combined units, are built or under construction in Far Rockaway, Glenwood Landing, Port Jefferson, Shoreham, Brentwood and Bethpage.
The 79-megawatt level is one megawatt below what would have triggered a full regulatory and environmental review under state law. The Sustainable Energy Alliance, a coalition of civic, environmental and health groups, said the units were inefficient and more polluting than more modern equipment and criticized expediting construction without environmental review.
The Trans-Energie cable, slowed by opposition in Connecticut, now needs only a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers to begin, Mr. Kessel said. He said that without power from the 10 plants and from across the Sound "the lights are not going to stay on this summer."
In the longer term, Mr. Kessel said, under the agreement reached with KeySpan last week the authority and the company could cooperate in repowering existing KeySpan plants that provide more than 90 percent of electricity generated on Long Island. Repowering would involve the refitting of the aging plants to produce more power and less air pollution.
"It may allow us to increase our capacity without having to build all these new power plants in places where people don't want them," Mr. Kessel said. Repowering is backed by environmental and energy groups that praised the postponement of an authority purchase of KeySpan plants they described as "buckets of bolts."
David J. Manning, a senior vice president for KeySpan, said that postponing the takeover decision reduced uncertainties for 600 employees at the KeySpan plants, including senior operators whose familiarity with the plants would be crucial this summer. "Uncertainty can be a villain in this business," he said.
Mr. Manning said the three-year delay avoided a decision at a time when "there is clearly an Enron hangover" in the energy industry. He said the postponement agreement also extended by two years, until November 2008, KeySpan operation of the authority-owned transmission and distribution system on Long Island. "That's a big piece of business for us," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (55%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (53%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (92%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY 

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (92%); NG (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: KESSEL, RICHARD M; RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



411 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Fairfield; 
A Radio Show's Lineup: Women's Sports Only

BYLINE:  By TIM TOWNSEND 

 BODY:
TANDALEYA WILDER never liked being called a tomboy by the kids in her neighborhood in Western Philadelphia. In fact, she hated it.
 "I remember thinking: 'I'm not a tomboy; I'm a little girl who likes to play sports,' " she said recently. " 'And if I could get any other girls around here to play with me, we wouldn't need you boys at all.' " 
 So it may be a vindication of sorts for Wilder that she has grown up to create, produce and be the host of a public radio show called "She Got Game," which is devoted entirely to women's sports. 
For the last two years, the program could only be heard on Wilder's Web site, shegotgame.com., but last month she was given a half-hour time slot each Saturday at 2 p.m. on WSHU (91.1 FM) in Fairfield, where Wilder is also the station's news director. (The show can also be heard on WSUF-FM 89.9 in Long Island on Sunday at 7 a.m.)
Not only is "She Got Game" Connecticut's only radio show dedicated to female athletics, but those at WHSU said they believed it to be the only program of its kind in the country.
"Before we started looking into it, I wasn't aware that this kind of program didn't exist anywhere else," Tom Kuser, WSHU's program director, said. "I would have thought something like it existed on the commercial side, but I actually wasn't completely surprised to find out it didn't.'
Donna Lopiano, the executive director of the Women's Sports Foundation, said, "As far as we know, there are no other women's sports radio shows that run on a weekly basis like "She Got Game."
Wilder, 38, is adamant about making the point that her show will not be "the typical jock show." She said she was aiming to create a program that has more to do with the social, economic and political factors in women's lives than with the sports they play.
"I knew when I came up with the idea I would have something of a niche, because there was nothing else like it out there," Wilder said. "When I started asking people whether they thought a radio show about women's sports would work, so many told me now is the right time."
Wilder said she came from a middle-class, non-athletic family in Philadelphia. She played a lot of sports with the boys in her neighborhood, however, and eventually tennis became her favorite sport.
She made the tennis team in high school and at Temple University where she majored in radio, television and film.
Wilder said she refined her radio skills by working at Temple's station, and by the time she graduated, said she had a vague notion that she wanted to be a sports reporter. But, in the mid-1980's, that option did not seem to be a viable one to her.
"Robin Roberts was just starting to do something with sports reporting then," she said, referring to the ESPN sports anchor. "I had the inclination, but doing it for a living didn't seem all that realistic."
Instead, Wilder said she worked as a news anchor and a reporter covering education and politics for a variety of public radio stations, including WHYY in Philadelphia and WNYC in New York City.
She said she began contributing feature stories to National Public Radio in the early 1990's and, in 1997, filed her first stories to NPR from the United States Open tennis tournament in Flushing Meadows, N.Y. 
In 1999, while working for Connecticut Public Radio, Wilder said she pitched an idea to her producers to commemorate Women's History Month: a one-time show devoted solely to women's sports.
She said listeners responded positively to the program, but it would take a move to different station and another three years before Wilder's "She Got Game" hit the public-radio airwaves last January. In the process, Wilder said she also had to battle with the National Basketball Association for trademark rights to the show's title
Dawn Staley, a guard for the Women's National Basketball Association Charlotte Sting, said: "It's important to have a show about women's sports on the radio.
"There are so many sports radio programs that cater to men's sports and the only coverage that women's sports get on those shows are as punchlines to jokes," said Staley, who is also the head coach of Temple's women's basketball team and has been a guest on Wilder's show. "To have something of our own is special."
Lopiano said: "You'd think sports programs would cover both men's and women's sports. But at best, 8 percent of sports coverage is devoted to women, and it's closer to 6 percent. If you want to fix this, you stop pressing for time within the context of men's sports coverage, and you start your own."
Wilder said: "Public radio listeners are sophisticated and intelligent, and they might not be all that into sports. But they are into good stories, and that's something I never have to worry about. There are so many great stories out there about female athletics."
When Wilder landed at WSHU her bosses said they were familiar with her work at NPR and believed she would be able to pull off a feat many thought to be impractical.
"Depending on who you talk to, common wisdom says sports don't work on public radio," Kuser said. "But we knew Tandi was looking to show people sports in a social context, to tell the story behind the headline, or maybe tell a story that would never make the headlines."
Bill Littlefield is familiar with presenting a sports show for a public radio audience. His weekly one-hour show, "Only a Game," first aired in spring 1993 on WBUR in Boston and is now syndicated each weekend to 138 stations around the country.
"The idea then was that a public radio sports show was an uphill battle," Littlefield said. "Our feeling is that good stories, well told, will resonate with a public-radio audience, even with listeners who aren't big sports fans. If that's what Tandaleya is doing, she should be successful."
So far, according to Kuser, WSHU's listeners seem to be still adjusting.
"We've had response from both sides," Kuser said after the fourth show. "Some say, 'Gee this is an interesting approach to sports.' And then there are some who have responded the way you might think a public-radio listener stereotype would respond."
But Kuser thinks once people listen to the show's segments -- a recent piece, for example, was "Here . . . Now," a tribute to the Olympian Florence Griffith-Joyner, by the jazz composer Wynton Marsalis and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater -- they will understand that "She Got Game" is about more than sports.
"I take it as a huge compliment when someone says, 'I'm not all that into sports, but I like your show,' " Wilder said.
She said she was developing a show dedicated to the 30th anniversary of Title IX, the 1972 ruling requiring schools to provide equal financing for women's sports. Wilder is hoping to become syndicated one day.
Lopiano said: "What's important is not "She Got Game," but what's behind it. Tandaleya is the tip of the iceberg, and what matters is finding the critical mass. Will she start a snowball effect by opening economic doors for others? It's one thing to let girls play, but it's another to let them play in the marketplace."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tandaleya Wilder, the host of "She Got Game," with Tom Kuser, the program director at WSHU. Ms. Wilder, who is also the station's news director, created the sports show. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); WOMEN (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TENNIS (60%); RADIO FORMATS (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; WOMEN; RADIO 

ORGANIZATION: WSHU-FM (FAIRFIELD, CONN) 

PERSON: WILDER, TANDALEYA; TOWNSEND, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%) FAIRFIELD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



412 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Coming of Age, Saxophone in Hand 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS STAUDTER 

DATELINE: CROTON-ON-HUDSON 

 BODY:
FULL of confidence, Loren Stillman, a 21-year-old saxophonist from Croton-on-Hudson, played in the 15th annual Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in Washington at the end of last month, hoping he could walk away with the $20,000 first prize.
 The youngest of 15 semifinalists in the contest, which is restricted to musicians under 35 who have not recorded for a major label, Mr. Stillman knew he was competing against the best. But after 16-year-old Sarah Hughes from Long Island beat a field of older, more experienced athletes for a gold medal in figure skating at the Winter Olympics, he figured that he, too, had a shot at the top. 
 So much for storybook endings. The winner this year was Seamus Blake, a 31-year-old tenor saxophonist and member of the Mingus Big Band.
Sponsored by the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, which oversees educational programs, the contest focuses on a different instrument each year. This year is the third time that the saxophone has been featured.
In the past, when economic times for the record industry were brighter, winners and runners-up in the competition, like the tenor saxophonist Joshua Redman, a first-prize winner in 1991, have also won recording contracts. Although a contract is no longer a sure or even likely thing, the competition offers some news media attention along with the monetary prize.
Though Mr. Stillman did not win, he said the experience was rewarding.
"I was nervous beforehand, but once I got on stage I felt everything was cool," he said.
The night of the rehearsals he had dinner with other competitors. At the finals, seated with his parents in the audience, he said he heard a lot of incredible music, including a duet between the pianist Herbie Hancock and the saxophonist Wayne Shorter, who, along with Mr. Redman, George Coleman, Don Braden and James Spaulding, judged the contest.
Mr. Stillman, who was born in England where his father was working, moved with his family to Croton-on-Hudson when he was 3. He began playing the saxophone when he was 7. Focusing on classical music, he continued his lessons through grade school, and also became known locally for his long, green-dyed hair, which he has since shorn and stopped dying, and skateboarding antics in the village parking lots.
A summer spent at the New England Music Camp in Sidney, Me., at age 13 encouraged him to take the saxophone seriously, Mr. Stillman said.
"I had an amazing teacher there at camp, Dan Goble, who was a saxophonist too, and he really believed in me," Mr. Stillman said. "He convinced me that I had some talent, and from that point on, I just started to practice all the time."
Mr. Stillman became so devoted to his saxophone that whenever his parents wanted to punish him for one misdeed or another, they would simply hide the neck piece of his instrument for a few days, he said.
Even before he was in high school, Mr. Stillman attended Wednesday night jam sessions for jazz musicians at One Station Plaza, a performance space in Peekskill, which is where Bob Meyer, a 56-year-old Peekskill native and jazz drummer heard him play. Before long he was chaperoning Mr. Stillman to gigs in Manhattan.
"Loren played way beyond his years," said Mr. Meyer, who plays with Mr. Stillman in Jackalope, a trio that plays in the metropolitan area, including in New York. "His sound was lyrical and beautifully melodic, and it was obvious that he was trying to come up with original ideas."
In 1995, when he was 15, Mr. Stillman recorded a CD, "Cosmos," on Soul Note Records, with a quartet that included Mr. Meyer on drums. It was mentioned favorably in Jazziz magazine and Jazz Times.
After high school Mr. Stillman attended the Manhattan School of Music but left after two years at the urging of his saxophone teacher there, Dick Oatts.
"Loren's the kind of musician who'll answer all of his questions about music by playing sax and writing music on his own," Mr. Oatts said.
In the past few years Mr. Stillman has worked in various bands and performed in most of the jazz venues in and around New York City. Recently, he has been subbing in the horn section of the Vanguard Orchestra at the Village Vanguard in Manhattan on Monday nights.
He has recorded another CD, as yet untitled, which he is trying to sell to a record company. Most of the bigger jazz labels, though, are not signing new artists right now.
"I'm not looking to be the next jazz superstar or anything like that," Mr. Stillman said. "Instead, what I'm interested in is a long career in music and its never-ending beauty. That's what I'd call real success."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Loren Stillman, a 21-year-old from Croton-on-Hudson, practices beside the Croton River. He competed in the 15th annual Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition last month. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); EXTREME SPORTS (75%); SKATEBOARDING (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); ICE SKATING (70%); WINTER OLYMPICS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) MUSIC; JAZZ; CONTESTS AND PRIZES 

ORGANIZATION: THEOLONIOUS MONK INSTITUTE OF JAZZ 

PERSON: STILLMAN, LOREN; STAUDTER, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



413 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: Ever Farther From Queens 

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
EVERY Sunday the Sikh Forum of Glen Cove, a temple with about 150 members, becomes a whirl of activity.
 Downstairs in the kitchen, a dozen women form an assembly line to prepare trays of fresh roti, an Indian flatbread. Some of them sing "wahe guru" -- God is great -- as they knead and fry the bread. Not far away, men stir huge kettles filled with lentils and other vegetables cooked with different curries and spices. 
 Upstairs, members gather in the prayer hall as hymns are sung and the priest preaches from the Sikh holy book. On the floor above, some children study the rudiments of their parents' native tongue, Punjabi, and others learn how to play the instruments used in the religious ceremony -- the tabla, a set of drums, and the harmonium, a small reed organ. 
"I look forward to this time every week," Ramita Lamba said as she helped roll out the dough for the roti. "It's to remember our culture and our religion, but there's also the social aspect of getting to see the community and friends."
Ms. Lamba, 34, said there are only two other Sikh families in Glen Head, where she has lived for the last 10 years, so she places great value in being able to come to a place where she can be just one of many. Here, the women's colorful tunics and head shawls do not stand out; nor do the men's turbans or the boys' patkas -- a head covering gathered into a knot on top.
Indians are the fastest-growing Asian community on Long Island, nearly doubling in population from 17,523 in 1990 to 34,333 in 2000, according to the 2000 census. Asian Indians, who include Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims and Christians, are now the largest Asian group on Long Island, followed by the Chinese and the Koreans.
These Asian groups have grown enough in recent years to support their own supermarkets, language schools, churches, temples and mosques on Long Island, making the weekly trips that many families used to make to ethnic enclaves in Queens unnecessary. Many members of these Asian groups say the best restaurants and specialty stores still lie west of Nassau County, and ties to places like Little India in Jackson Heights, Chinatown in Flushing and the Korean areas of Flushing and Bayside have not yet been severed. But the Asian communities on Long Island are well on their way toward self-sufficiency.
Many of the Island's Asian families first settled in the ethnic enclaves in Queens and, following a time-honored pattern, migrated to Long Island in search of the suburban ideal -- a single-family home, a patch of lawn and better public schools.
"When we initially come to settle in this country, most go to the city where they can go easily to jobs," said Harsimran Singh, a trustee at the Sikh temple. "Then when we become financially better off, we move out here." Dr. Singh, a real estate investor, first arrived in Queens in 1973 and moved to Long Island 12 years ago.
But unlike previous generations of immigrants eager to assimilate into mainstream America, these latest arrivals are doing their utmost to hang onto and transmit their cultural heritage to their children.
Asians, including some 16 different census groups, increased by nearly 58 percent on Long Island in the last census, from 62,050 in 1990 to 97,851 in 2000, with about two-thirds of that number residing in Nassau County. Still, Asians only represent 3.6 percent of the Island's population, and many say that if anything, their status as a minority here makes it even more important to find ways to maintain a sense of ethnic identity.
Dr. Singh said there are large Sikh communities in the Richmond Hills and Flushing areas of Queens, but on Long Island, the families are much more scattered. "During the week, everybody is busy," he said. "But on the weekend, we can all come together here as a community."
The largest concentrations of Indians on the Island are in Elmont, Hicksville, East Meadow and North New Hyde Park. In the Herricks school district, which has seen a large influx of Indian and Korean families, the Asian population in the high school went from 5.5 percent in 1985 to more than 36 percent last fall.
Naheed Zara, 35, immigrated to New Hyde Park from India five years ago, joining family members who had arrived on Long Island before her. As she roamed the aisles of the Maharaja Supermarket in New Hyde Park one day recently, she said that before it opened three years ago, she went to Queens regularly for essentials like basmati rice and ginger or lime pickle. But even though her shopping needs can now be met on Long Island, she said, "it's quieter here and sometimes I feel very isolated and homesick. I miss the crowds." So every now and then, she still heads to Jackson Heights, glad to fight traffic and be jostled by fellow shoppers.
In Suffolk County, the State University of New York at Stony Brook has become a magnet for many Asian groups. A university survey in 1997 found that roughly 22 percent of undergraduates were Asian, and the incoming freshman class that year was 30 percent Asian. The changing demographics have led to the creation of programs that position Stony Brook to become an East Coast hub for Asian-American studies.
Kamal Sridhar, a linguistics professor, helped create the Center for India Studies at Stony Brook in 1996. "Students came to me and said there are so many of us, about 2,000, and yet there were absolutely no courses on India," she said. Since then, members of the Indian community in the area have helped raise nearly $500,000 to establish the center, and 10 to 12 courses on India are now taught each semester.
Also in 1996, Gary Mar, a philosophy professor at Stony Brook, approached Charles B. Wang, the chairman of Islandia-based Computer Associates, for help turning an unused hallway into space promoting Asian culture. Their conversations eventually led Mr. Wang, who was born in China, to donate $25 million to the university to create an Asian-American center, which will serve as a cultural home for Asian students and a place to expose non-Asians to Asian culture. The university is now searching for someone to lead a new department that will study Asian civilizations as well as the history of Asians in the United States.
"Students have a real hunger to understand the contradictions in their experience," said Dr. Mar, who started teaching an Asian-American course in 1997. "They want to know how it is they can be considered foreigners even though their people have been in America for a long, long time and why people say to them, 'Are you really American and can we trust you?' "
Dr. Mar said he and others in the Asian community decided to take action after the 1993 suicides of two Asian girls, one Chinese and one Indian, from Ward Melville High School in East Setauket.
"That was a shock to the community, and we all saw a fear of pushing our children to succeed too hard and not being able to deal with discrimination," he said. "We have to teach them about their heritage and about the history of this country to empower them to be agents of change."
His sentiment was shared by parents of children attending the Plainview Chinese School, which opened in September 2000 in a building that also was donated by Mr. Wang. There are about a dozen schools on Long Island that teach either the Cantonese or Mandarin dialects of Chinese, but most of them hold classes in church basements or in borrowed space at local colleges. The Plainview school is the first building dedicated exclusively to teaching Chinese language and culture. It teaches Mandarin to about 400 children each weekend using textbooks and teaching methods from both Taiwan and mainland China.
The Chinese population on Long Island grew 44 percent, from 18,257 in 1990 to 26,338 in 2000. Areas that have seen the largest increases include Setauket and East Setauket in Suffolk County and Hicksville, Syosset and North New Hyde Park in Nassau County. The opening of the Plainview school and of V & T Supermarket, a 35,000-square-foot emporium of Chinese groceries, herbal remedies and porcelains, in Hempstead last December has finally given Chinese families on Long Island services to rival those in Flushing.
Terry Joe sends her 9-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter to the Plainview school, which has three-hour sessions on Saturdays and Sundays. Ms. Joe said that when they moved three years ago from Queens to Manhasset, teaching her children about Chinese culture became a high priority because they were suddenly thrust into a school where there were only a handful of Asians.
"Especially in Long Island, where they are such a minority, it's even more important that they be proud of their culture," she said. "When somebody makes fun of them because of the way they look or what they eat, which happens quite often, I want them to understand their culture so they can defend themselves properly."
Ming-Der Chang, the principal of the school, said that while most parents who send their children to Chinese schools in Chinatown or in Flushing are recent immigrants and expect their children to attain fluency, the expectations of suburban parents are a little different.
"Here, in many cases Chinese isn't spoken at home and they don't expect the children to be Chinese scholars," she said. "To them it's more important their children know the culture than to actually be able to read and write."
Unlike Indians and Koreans, groups that use their places of worship as community centers, Dr. Chang noted that most Chinese are not affiliated with a church or temple. Instead, the Chinese school becomes a place where parents can socialize on weekends while their children are in class. She sent her own children, who are now grown, to a school run out of the New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury. "Most of my good friends, I met them in Chinese school," Dr. Chang said. 
Like their Indian and Chinese counterparts on Long Island, many Korean transplants have come from Queens, where there are large concentrations of Korean immigrants in Flushing and Bayside. The Korean population on Long Island increased 40 percent, from 9,024 in 1990 to 12,548 in 2000.
Pyong Gap Min, a sociology professor at Queens College, said that Korean churches serve as the main community centers for Korean immigrants, and that some churches have migrated eastward with their congregations. The Korean Church of Brooklyn, for example, is one of the oldest Korean congregations on Long Island and has shared space with a Presbyterian congregation in Garden City since 1989.
The Rev. Choong Sik Ahn, the pastor, said Long Island had about 10 Korean churches when his congregation arrived, but there are now more than 35. His church has about 250 active members, but its mailing list ballooned from 500 names five years ago to more than 1,000 in Nassau County.
He said moving to the suburbs has introduced socio-economic differences into the congregation that didn't exist when the church was based in Brooklyn Heights. In addition to recent immigrants who live in close quarters in Brooklyn and Queens, he said, there now are "old timers" who have established themselves and moved to the suburbs. "Their lifestyles are different," he said. "They may stay together in church, but sometimes there's a gap between them."
At church, the differences are overshadowed by the desire to worship and break bread with fellow Koreans. The lunchroom after the church service is filled with sounds of Korean chatter and is spiced with the smell of garlic and kimchee. To accommodate English speakers, the church holds an English service as well as a Korean one. The church also holds Korean classes for children of church members and for Korean children who were adopted by non-Korean families in the area.
Borah Kim, 16, said she has learned enough Korean at the church school to help her get by on her visits to family in Korea. But more important, she said, she feels at ease at the church because she is surrounded by so many others like her.
Miss Kim said her family moved to Dix Hills from Queens when she was 4 years old and the transition was not easy. "I never noticed that I was different," she said. "But I could tell they were not really open to the idea that I wasn't white."
Young Sook Kim, 55 and no relation to Borah Kim, said that when her two daughters were growing up in Valley Stream, they frequently were teased about their Asian features and their studious habits. "I said you may have physical small body, but you tell them you have a big mind, and if they call you a nerd, what's so bad about being a nerd?" she said.
Mrs. Kim's daughters are now 18 and 26, and she said she noticed that while most of their friends were non-Koreans when they were at home, they both chose to mingle more with other Koreans when they went away to college. She laughed when she said her daughters now complain, "Why didn't you push us harder to learn Korean when we were young?" 
Mrs. Kim said she was confident that bringing her children to the church had helped give them a clearer sense of themselves. "It gave them faith and the culture, and it also gave them the guidelines to help them overcome problems," she said.
"America used to be called the great melting pot," Mrs. Kim said. "Now it's the great tossed salad. And I think this is better, because melting means you lose yourself, but tossing means you keep your own flavor and taste."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PREPARING ROTI, a flatbread, at the Sikh Forum of Glen Cove, top. Smaller images, clockwise from above: the V & T Supermarket in Hempstead caters to Chinese customers; a service at the Sikh temple; a traditional dance class at the Plainview Chinese School; Jeff Wang peeking into his daughter's Chinese language class at the Plainview school; choir rehearsal at the Korean Church of Long Island in Garden City. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Students at the Plainview Chinese School spend part of their weekends learning Chinese language and culture. (pg. 7) Map of Long Island highlighting communities with higest concentrations of Asian groups. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SIKHS & SIKHISM (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RELIGION (90%); FAMILY (89%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); CHILDREN (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (74%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); TRENDS (68%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (67%); CENSUS (66%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; INDIAN-AMERICANS; CHINESE-AMERICANS; KOREAN-AMERICANS; ASIANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



414 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2045 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Piscataway; 
An Old Town With High-Tech Ambitions

BYLINE:  By JERRY CHESLOW 

 BODY:
WITH its large corporate tax base providing much of the money and Rutgers University supplying some of the brainpower, the township of Piscataway in northern Middlesex County is becoming an e-government pioneer.
 Over the next three months, T-1 high-speed Internet lines are to be installed in the municipal complex on Hoes Lane. Soon afterward, according to Mayor Brian C. Wahler, businesses and residents will be able to use their computers to pay municipal taxes and apply for building permits and marriage and pet licenses. Police cars will be equipped with global positioning pods to allow dispatchers to pinpoint their locations at all times, and local utility line maps will be posted on the Worldwide Web. 
 In addition, Piscataway is a member of a 13-municipality consortium that is working with Rutgers University, which has two campuses in Piscataway, to draft a three-year $1.5-million federal grant proposal to develop new e-government services. 
"Whether we get the grant or not, we are going forward with e-government," the mayor said. "A grant will speed up certain services, allow us to benefit from economies of scale and help us to develop new services. For instance, people might be able to punch in their addresses and call up maps of the parks nearest their homes, with all of the equipment and ball fields in virtual reality."
Piscataway, a 19.1-square-mile township just across the Raritan River from New Brunswick, feels like an average suburban community, with good schools, a mix of housing priced from about $100,000 to more than $700,000, no central business district and moderate taxes. According to statistics released by Middlesex County, its $4,075 average tax per residence is the median rate among the county's 25 municipalities. 
However, Piscataway enjoys atypically sound financial health, bolstered by a corporate tax base that supplies 40 percent of its $33 million annual budget. During the day, its population swells fivefold with commuters, according to the town's chief financial officer, Ulrich Steinberg. They work at the dozens of high-tech corporations that line Centennial Avenue and at the Busch and Livingston campuses of Rutgers University and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, which together occupy nearly four square miles off Metlars Lane.
According to Robert J. DiLeo, president of DiLeo Realty Associates on Stelton Road, the township has more than 16 million square feet of commercial space. By far the largest taxpayer in town is Telcordia Technologies, which occupies seven office buildings and pays nearly $4 million in taxes.
Last month, the township issued $8 million worth of municipal bonds to cover the technology program, renovations to the municipal complex, road improvements and the reconstruction of 17 of its 26 parks -- all without increasing taxes. The other parks were renovated over the last 18 months.
Jobs, the tax rate and easy highway access -- the town is bisected north-south by Interstate 287 and is near Route 1, Route 18 and the New Jersey Turnpike -- are fueling a housing boom. According to Phyllis Brent, a real estate agent at Re/Max First Realty, many homes sell on the day they are listed. "Anything good that is priced properly will be gone within two weeks," she said.
Quoting statistics released by the Multiple Listing Service, Ms. Brent said that sellers receive an average of 97.5 percent of their asking prices. In many cases, bidding wars among potential buyers push the price even higher. At the end of February, 93 homes, with asking prices ranging from $130,000 to $494,000, were listed for sale on the Multiple Listing Service. Most buyers are professional couples, many from New York City, according to Ms. Brent.
"Recently, a five-lot subdivision with starting prices of $440,000 sold out in less than one month," she recalled. "There was no model house. People just bought off the plans and artists' renderings. I have a list of more than 10 people who want to buy houses in Piscataway."
Some of the most expensive areas of town are the Hillcrest Drive section off River Road, across the Raritan River from New Brunswick, and the Maplehurst Farm area, near the South Bound Brook line. Ten-year-old 4,000-square-foot, four-bedroom homes on half-acre to three-quarter-acre lots in the Hill Crest Drive area can fetch more than $700,000, according to Ms. Brent. Four-bedroom, 3,500-square-foot houses Lilac Way or Goldfinch Court in the Maplehurst Farm area sell in the half million dollar range. Small Capes and older colonials in the Arbor area on West Fifth or West Seventh Streets or the New Market section around New Market Street, both in the northern section of town, sell for $120,000 to $150,000.
Piscataway has just over 2,200 condominiums in nine developments, the largest of which is the 545-unit Society Hill, off Morris Avenue, consisting of two- and three-bedroom, two-story town house-type units and two-bedroom apartment-type units. Recently, a three-bedroom town house sold for $173,500 and a two-bedroom town house went for $168,000. The latest sale of a unit on one floor was for $136,750. 
There are a total of 3,680 rental apartments in 13 complexes, the largest of which is the 1,142-unit Pleasant View Gardens off Pleasant View Drive.
Among those who were attracted to Piscataway in recent years are Sarah E. Grant; her husband, Kevin; and their daughters, Aisha, 10, and Amina, 6, who moved from nearby Freehold Township to a four-bedroom colonial on the east side of town near the Edison line five years ago. Mrs. Grant, an Avon representative, says the couple was searching for a home closer to Mr. Grant's job as an electrical engineer at the Agere Corporation in Murray Hill, about 12 miles to the north. 
Mrs. Grant, who is president of Partners in Education, the parent-teacher organization in Knollwood Elementary School, says she studied the schools before choosing Piscataway. "We wanted a school system that was diverse so that our children could develop tolerance and learn to get along with people from different cultures," she explained. "We also liked the location, which is near New Brunswick, with its theater district. And we wanted the open space. Lately though, more and more housing is being built. There's more traffic, and trees and wildlife are disappearing."
The Piscataway Township School District has 6,759 students in six elementary and three middle schools and the two-building Piscataway High School. Its student body is 35 percent white, 32 percent African-American, 23 percent Asian and 10 percent Hispanic. "We are a community of heterogeneity, with many different races, religions and ethnicities," said the superintendent, Robert L. Copeland.
There is at least one computer and Internet access in every classroom. The average class size is 21.5 in elementary and middle school, which is about the state average, and 24 in the high school. 
In a vote on Tuesday, residents narrowly approved a $52.8 million bond referendum to renovate all of the schools and add a gymnasium, 18 classrooms and two technology labs the elementary schools; 11 classrooms to the middle schools; and science labs, music rooms, a gym and offices to the high school. However, they rejected a $3.7 million bond issue to build a competition-sized swimming pool for the high school. 
According to Mr. Copeland, the district will be reimbursed by the state for about one-third of the cost of the improvements. Officials say the bond issue will raise the average annual residential tax bill by $102. 
Last year, 49 percent of Piscataway High's 481 graduates went to four-year colleges and another 27 percent went to two-year colleges. The district's students scored a combined verbal and math average of 1,004 on the College Board tests, compared with a state average of 1,012. The school offers 12 advanced placement courses in English, statistics, calculus, the sciences, art, history, music and foreign languages.
The town also has five private religious schools: St. Frances Cabrini, a Roman Catholic school, serving prekindergarten through eighth grade; Our Lady of Fatima, a Roman Catholic nursery-to-eighth-grade school; Lake Nelson Seventh Day Adventist, a K-8 school; the Timothy Christian School, a nondenominational K-12 school; and Yeshiva Shaarei Tzion, a Jewish K-8 school.
The largest of the 26 town-owned parks is the 77-acre Columbus Park, off Lakeview Avenue. Last year, its baseball and softball diamonds, basketball and tennis courts were renovated. It has a lake for boating. 
This year, under the bond issue, 17 parks are to be renovated and made handicap-accessible. Roller hockey rinks are to be added to Byrne Park, off Woodland Avenue, and Perrine Park, off Scott Street.
Also in the town are the county-owned 473-acre Johnson Park, off River Road, and the Raritan Landing 18-hole county-owned golf course off Centennial Avenue, where a round costs $24 daily and $26 on weekends.
PISCATAWAY also has a municipal museum, which is in the Metlar/Bodine House on River Road, built in 1728 by Peter Bodine, a wealthy merchant, and later expanded to 14 rooms. It contains local memorabilia, including a wall and fireplace from Ross Hall, a grand mansion built in 1739 and later demolished; a collection of arrowheads; and exhibits on transportation. 
Although she would prefer that the museum be known for its collections, Hara S. Durkin, associate director, acknowledges that 25 ghosts are said to inhabit the house, including those of a woman who reads limericks aloud and a man who leaves the smell of pipe smoke in his wake.
The Metlar/Bodine house, which is open Saturday and Sunday afternoons, was built 62 years after the first settlers arrived in the area under a 300-square-mile land grant from the first British governor of New Jersey, Philip Carteret. The earliest settlers were Quakers and Baptists fleeing intolerance in the Puritan colony in New Hampshire. The township is believed to have been named for the settlers' former home on the Piscataqua River in New Hampshire.
Their early settlement, which was called Raritan Landing, was the fourth oldest settlement in New Jersey, predating New Brunswick, just across the Raritan River. Currently, nine 18th- and 19th-century Raritan Landing homes along River Road constitute a historic district listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Road up the Raritan. Another Piscataway structure on the National Register, the Cornelius Low House, a Georgian manor built by a merchant in 1740, is now a county museum. 
Piscataway has two supermarkets and a couple of shopping centers, the larger of which is Centennial Square off Centennial Avenue. It also has a battered old business district, which is in need of renovation, on Stelton Road. Mayor Wahler says he is seeking a $1.6 million grant from the New Jersey Department of Transportation to provide new sidewalks, Victorian-type lighting and parking.

Gazetteer

POPULATION: 50,482 (2000 census).
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $73,400 (2002 estimate).
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: $209,500.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $168,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $136,300.
TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $4,075.
MEDIAN PRICE OF TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $160,000.
MIDRANGE RENT OF TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,250.
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Brian C. Wahler, Democrat) and seven-member township council, elected to four-year terms.
SCHOOL EXPENDITURE PER PUPIL: $8,904.
DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 43 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 40 minutes from neighboring Edison to Penn Station via New Jersey Transit train; $7.50 one-way, $210 monthly. 
CODES: Area, 732; ZIP, 08854.
A STOP ON THE WAY TO WAR: Camp Kilmer, which straddled the Piscataway-Edison border on Stelton Road, was the largest staging area in the United States for troop embarkation in World War II. From its activation in 1942 until the Defense Department started phasing it out in the 1960's, more than two and a half million troops passed through the base, named for Joyce Kilmer, the poet and New Jersey native killed in World War I. It covered more than 1,500 acres and cost $25 million to build. Much of the land is now used for the Rutgers University Livingston Campus, a campus of the Middlesex County Vocational Technical School, an apartment complex and industrial areas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Barbour Place in the Maplehurst Farm section; left, Society Hill, a 545-unit condominium development off Morris Avenue; and Telecordia Technologies, the largest taxpayer in Piscataway. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); 3-bedroom 1 1/2-bath colonial with eat-in kitchen at 1429 Fourth Street, $149,900.; 4-bedroom, 2-bath bilevel with 2-car garage at 47 Wickley Avenue, $269,000.; 5-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath, colonial with 2-car garage at 31 Lilac Way, $494,900. Map of New Jersey highlighting Piscataway

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); SUBURBS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (70%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (70%); DENTISTRY (70%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); STATISTICS (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (63%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (63%); TELCORDIA TECHNOLOGIES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: CHESLOW, JERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) PISCATAWAY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



415 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Whitney York, John Lancaster

 BODY:
Whitney Mossy York and Neville John Lancaster Jr. were married in New Orleans last evening by Maurice J. Hartson III, a Roman Catholic deacon, at the Most Holy Name of Jesus Church. 
 Mrs. 
Lancaster, 28, graduated from the University of Texas and is a candidate for an M.B.A. degree at Columbia. She is a daughter of Carol Richardson and Dr. Harold Richardson York of New Orleans. Her father is a pediatrician. 
 Mr. Lancaster, 33, is known as John. He is a principal in Riverstone Holdings, an investment firm in New York. He graduated from the University of Texas and received an M.B.A. from Harvard. He is the son of Judith Byrne Lancaster of Stafford, Tex., and the late Mr. Lancaster Sr. His mother teaches government and economics at Bellaire High School, in Bellaire, Tex., and his father was a civil engineer with Brown & Root Services, an engineering and construction company, in Houston.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jeanine Frey Rhodes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); CONSTRUCTION (84%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); ENGINEERING (65%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: KELLOGG BROWN & ROOT SERVICES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (56%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (56%)

PERSON: YORK, WHITNEY MOSSY (WHITNEY MOSSY LANCASTER); LANCASTER, NEVILLE JOHN JR. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



416 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: Entering the Era Of Marketing 

BYLINE:  By STUART MILLER 

 BODY:
THE music was salsa, and the art was Soviet. Some people were dancing, and some were content just to look at the paintings. The place? New Brunswick, at last month's edition of the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum's "First Thursdays: Art After Hours," in which the museum, on Rutgers' New Brunswick campus, stays open late on the first Thursday of most months, offering music and guided tours.
 The Zimmerli series, inaugurated in late 2000, is just one example of how New Jersey's museums are attracting visitors through marketing techniques that have long been used by big-city institutions. Throughout the state, museums are adding music and other programs, often during extended hours; building new spaces; opening cafes and gift shops; and generally striving to heighten their visibility while making themselves a destination for local residents. 
 These tactics are "really a national trend, and New Jersey is not necessarily ahead of it," said Ofelia Garcia, chairwoman of the Jersey City Museum's board. She pointed out that government agencies, foundations and philanthropists want museums to prove that they can expand their audiences and earn income on their own. A nationwide survey, conducted in 1999 by the American Association of Museums of 1,800 museums, showed that gift shops and publications bring in more income than admissions. 
Last fall, the Jersey City Museum moved into a new space, which includes a theater that will be used for films, lectures and music programs, some of which, its officials hope, will be presented by outside groups paying a rental fee. Last month, the Montclair Art Museum unveiled the last stage of a major renovation, adding an atrium that will eventually be rented out for readings, concerts, weddings and corporate events.
In late 2000, the Zimmerli redid its gallery space, making room for its First Thursdays and other events; last November, the Zimmerli added a cafe. Princeton's Art Museum began an evening jazz series in late 2000, and two years ago, the Morris Museum revamped its gift shop.
Like Montclair, most of the state's larger museums rent out space for weddings and corporate events, or are planning to do so.
The adoption of these tactics reflects economic realities but also the growth of a sophisticated suburban audience familiar with similar offerings at, for example, the Brooklyn Museum of Art, which is open late on the first Saturday night of each month for special events, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which, under Thomas Hoving, pioneered efforts in this area over two decades ago.
Steve Miller, who became executive director of the Morris Museum in Morristown last fall, said museumgoers no longer viewed cafes or evening programs as added attractions. "They have become basic amenities," he said.
Greg Perry, acting director at the Zimmerli while the director is on sabbatical, said, "The bar has been raised a little bit, even for smaller museums, to cater to visitors as much as possible."
The increase in marketing is also related to the fact that five museums -- in Montclair, Jersey City, Morristown and Princeton, and the New Jersey State Museum in Trenton -- have in the last two years hired new directors with significant administration experience in New York institutions. In New York, marketing has been an integral part of a museum administrator's job since the days of Mr. Hoving, who led the Metropolitan Museum from 1967 to 1977, and is credited with creating the so-called blockbuster exhibition, like the King Tut show.
"Hoving called upon museums to be more relevant as society changed, to be more diverse and more outgoing," said Mr. Miller, adding that administrators who started out during the Hoving era are now leading museums nationwide.
Patterson Sims, director of the Montclair museum since September, said the concept of marketing a museum, once an "alien thought," was now integral to the job. Mr. Hoving agreed.
"Back then, the critics sliced me regularly," he said. "But people have realized that museums are more than just a haven for scholars and that they can carry out these ideas without going down the popular culture drain. Today, any new legitimate source of revenue is welcomed by even the fustiest staff member."
This has not happened overnight. Mr. Miller said New Jersey's museums had been gradually changing in the past decade, joking about the difference between "real time" and "museum time." Restricted by tight budgets, an institutional culture that favors decisions made by committee, reliance on volunteers, and an innately conservative outlook, a museum can take 5 or 10 years to transform itself. It must also deal with its board members, who are generally older than the audiences that administrators want to attract.
"What may be great for a grandchild of a trustee may be appalling to the trustee," Mr. Sims of Montclair said.
Still, boards have become more open to experimentation and even failure.
The Newark Museum, the largest in the state, has had a cafe, an off-site gift shop, corporate events, Thursday late hours and a presence on museumshop.com for years. But it too is aggressively raising its profile, said its director, Mary Sue Sweeney Price, recently running its first print and radio advertisement campaign for a temporary exhibition, and hiring a full-time staff member to coordinate its Web site. The museum also hopes to be the first in New Jersey to sell merchandise on its Web site.
Expanding revenue stream and visibility often begins with the gift shop and cafe, though these present challenges.
The Jersey City Museum has a cafe in its new building, and the Montclair renovation included space reserved for a cafe. But Mr. Sims of Montclair said his budget would not allow for a kitchen. Still, he hopes to make a deal with a place like the nearby Whole Foods store to provide prepared foods.
"The cafe is a good idea, but economically it's difficult," he said, particularly for museums that are not large enough to justify an entire day's visit.
Mr. Miller said that the Morris Museum does not get enough visitors to sustain a cafe economically, but that about two years ago, it transformed its gift shop, adding more upscale jewelry and children's merchandise. The shop sits along a lobby wall, so that locals can come in without going to the museum.
The Zimmerli has had a gift shop for several years. It also has a small display at Johnson & Johnson headquarters in New Brunswick, and Mr. Perry, the acting director, wants to open satellite stores in other locations in that city.
The Zimmerli's cafe has entrances through the shop and the Rutgers art history building, drawing customers not only from museum visitors but also from professors and students. Mr. Perry does not expect to make money from the cafe.
"I'd be happy if we broke even," he said, just to make the museum a destination. 
In planning events, the institutions take different paths, depending on the size, location and demographics of the surrounding communities. For example, as Mr. Miller of the Morris Museum pointed out, events geared to single people may work well at a university museum, like the Zimmerli or Princeton, but not in his institution, which is in an upscale suburban setting.
Meanwhile, Helen Shannon, the executive director of the state museum, said that unlike, say, administrators at the Jersey City Museum, she cannot focus on one geographic area. Instead, she said, she must balance the need to build a local presence in Trenton and to maintain statewide relevance.
At Montclair, Mr. Sims is considering whether to pursue a First Thursday concept. The question, he said, is whether locals will turn out. He pointed out that New Jerseyans are more likely to drive home and stay there, unlike in New York, where people go out after work.
"People are more house-oriented here than in New York," he said.
Last fall, the museum began to stay open until 9 p.m. on Thursdays, with free wine and cheese, but there has been little promotion and not much traffic so far.
Additionally, Mr. Sims is concerned about competition with local institutions. The Montclair Library offers a jazz series, and Montclair State University has a lecture series. He is considering a readings series and an occasional co-presentation with the university because the museum's atrium can hold more people.
Mr. Miller of the Morris Museum is also searching for ways to draw in his community in Morristown. He said he would like to experiment with different genres of music in the museum's theater, and is also thinking about making the museum "a learning center" by having universities from the area or even New York that want to do outreach programs send in faculty for lectures.
Ms. Shannon of the state museum is exploring signing on with Trenton's First Fridays program, in which on the first Friday of each month, local galleries and stores stay open late, and there are jazz performances and readings in various city spaces.
At the Zimmerli, Mr. Perry said the Thursday series has attracted people who work during the day and are busy with errands and family on weekends. In February, the event pulled in about 200 people of all races and ages, regular visitors and newcomers alike, he said.
Renee McKinney, 20, a Rutgers junior, was one of them. She had been meaning to visit the museum but had never made it. She said that although the salsa band brought her in, she spent more time looking at the paintings than dancing. Meanwhile, Earl Thomas, 67, of Highland Park, comes to the museum regularly but had never been to a First Thursday before.
"I like to dance, and this is a lot of fun," he said. "And the music infuses the art with something extra."
At Princeton, Susan Taylor, the director, said the Friday night jazz series, advertised locally, has been attracting 300 to 350 people. Ms. Taylor has plans for other events, like those that go with the show "Anthony Van Dyck: Ecce Homo and The Mocking of Christ," which opened on March 9. The exhibition explores Van Dyck's religious paintings, and so the museum is holding a concert and film series that includes the showing of Martin Scorcese's "Last Temptation of Christ."
These events may bond the museum with its community, but the biggest moneymaker, and the one most museums cannot afford to ignore, is renting out space for parties and other events.
"They can generate a significant amount of money to put back into programming," said Mimi Gaudieri, executive director of the Association of Art Museum Directors.
The Montclair museum has hired a manager of special events, which are held in the museum's atrium. Rates range from $1,500 for a nonprofit group holding a weekday event to $3,000 for a corporation holding a weekend event.
The Zimmerli holds such events in the same space where bands perform on First Thursdays. The museum charges $600 to $1,100 per event. Mr. Perry said demand had doubled since the program began in late 2000.
Meanwhile, new ideas are on the horizon. Mr. Hoving said that improving Web site technology will give museums more options -- including selling work by artists in their collection or by local artists.
Ms. Price, of the Newark Museum, said museums may begin collaborating, doing joint promotional events and campaigns. She pointed out that a member of the Montclair museum is more likely than the "average Joe" to check out an exhibition in Newark or at the Morris Museum.
The biggest danger, Ms. Taylor of Princeton said, is that museums will become so focused on ancillary programs that they stray from their main goals or compromise their mission. But Mr. Hoving said, "As long as they don't go into kitsch -- if the quality is good, then there's nothing wrong with trying something different." He added: "The word 'museum' refers to all of the muses. It's always a question of balance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marketing tactics come to New Jersey museums. At the Montclair Art Museum, the atrium, left, is ready for a dinner for patrons. Soon the space will be used for concerts and other events. Princeton University's Art Museum, above, holds Friday jazz concerts. A First Thursday event at the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum in New Brunswick, right and below left, attracted those wanting to dance and to see art. At the Morris Museum in Morristown, the gift shop is an attraction. (Photographs by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); CHARITIES (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) MUSEUMS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (55%)

PERSON: MILLER, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



417 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2870 words

HEADLINE: A Playing Field That Is Level For All Children 

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN CANNON 

DATELINE: PATERSON 

 BODY:
PRETTY pink curtains adorn the windows in all the classrooms. In the renovated science room, computers, animal-shaped puzzles and play kitchen sets invite curious minds.
 The building housing El Mundi de Colores preschool is old -- one look at the Victorian-era tin ceilings confirms that -- but the building is well maintained and clean. 
 The curriculum is borrowed from a nationally recognized model, and teachers are well on their way to earning certification in early childhood education.
Many of these enhancements at El Mundi de Colores have been introduced since the Paterson school district contracted with the center three years ago to teach some of the city's 3- and 4-year-olds. The program is part of a state Supreme Court-ordered effort in Paterson and 29 other districts -- called special needs school districts -- that is aimed at eliminating an 18-month learning gap between inner-city children and their suburban counterparts by the time they enter kindergarten. 
All agree that a high-quality preschool program will go a long way toward closing that gap. They also agree on the components that make up such programs. The debate that has raged in New Jersey is whether the state has provided adequate resources and support to its disadvantaged communities to deliver what is needed.
State officials are not expected to announce the levels of state aid to the public schools until later this month, but it is commonly believed that districts will be disappointed in the results as Governor McGreevey seeks to work around a $6 billion budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins July 1.
Nonetheless, advocates for the poor are hopeful that the McGreevey administration will meet the challenge, unlike those of previous governors, most notably Christie Whitman's, who they say stymied their efforts to improve education in the cities.
The task is daunting.
"We have to find out what's behind their problems," Laura Zarif, the program director for El Mundi de Colores, said of her 60 young charges as dozens of preschoolers were rounded up for nap time late one morning. "Maybe the child lives in a car or mom's an alcoholic or dad's out of the picture. The challenge is to reach that child."
About 100 miles away, in Vineland, 4-year-old Steven Sotnychuck showed a classmate at the DiBiase Preschool how to use a computer mouse to navigate a game of Blues Clues. Steven has a computer at home but many of his classmates, the children of migrant farm workers in this poor and rural area of South Jersey, are not as fortunate.
Nearly midway between Paterson and Vineland is Burlington City, another special needs district where preschool children are squeezed into aging school buildings. For nearly two years, district officials anxiously waited for state money to expand the facilities. School officials were being forced to bus one classroom of 4-year-old pupils to another school across town.
In September, preschool was expanded to full day from a half day for 3- and 4-year-olds in all but two of the special needs districts. Enrollment is up this year from 22,000 to aboutn 28,000, about half of the total number of children eligible for the program in the 30 districts.
In these schools, and in similar ones around the country, the children face any number of social, economic and and educational hurdles that contribute to the disparity in learning among the youngest students. Without early intervention, says Steven Barnett, director of the Center for Early Education of Rutgers University, the gap remains -- and in many cases widens -- as the children reach the upper grades.
Anthony Coletta, a professor of early childhood education at William Paterson University, has observed the gap firsthand, as an educational consultant for two vastly different school districts: Wayne, a suburb in Passaic County; and Passaic, one of the state's Abbott districts.
"I supervise student teachers in Passaic in the morning, then I might supervise student teachers in Wayne in the afternoon," Dr. Coletta said. "I'm always stunned by the disparity between the students. I agree with Barnett's conclusion. I think the gap's at least 18 months."
The gap is so pervasive, educators agree, that it extends into adulthood. For example, a study conducted in the 1980's in Kansas by two researchers at the University of Kansas concluded that a 3-year-old from a wealthy, well-educated family used a larger vocabulary than an adult does in a poor family with little education, Dr. Barnett said.
Closing the gap can pay dividends beyond education costs. A long-term study conducted in Michigan followed poor 4-year-old students in the inner city who attended quality preschool programs and compared them with similar students who did not. More than 20 years later, researchers concluded that for every dollar spent educating one student, $7 was saved in other costs like welfare and prison costs.
Adults who had attended the quality preschool generally performed better academically, were arrested less frequently, worked in higher-paying jobs and had longer, more stable marriages, the study found.

Teaching Positive Feedback
Indeed, based on research since the 1960's, academics have concluded that children who suffer the most are those who are not read to when they are babies and toddlers and whose parents use negative reinforcement, Dr. Barnett said.
"Typically with poor parents you get a lot of, 'Stop it and put that down,' " he said. "Can preschool help? If teachers use a more positive, elaborate code and if they're reading good literature, that will help. But the best thing is what the parents are doing. Preschools alone can't make up that gap."
As a result, an increasing number of states have watched the body of research grow and are offering preschool alternatives to help parents fill the gap. A report issued in 1999 by the Children's Defense Fund report showed that state spending on preschool mushroomed to $1.7 billion from $700 million from 1989 to 1999, with the number of students increasing to 725,000 from 290,000. Of the 42 states that now offer preschool programs, 10 of them -- including New Jersey -- account for three-quarters of the total spending. 
Still, only 36 percent of children ages 3 to 5 who were living with families earning less than $15,000 a year were enrolled in preschool nationally by the end of the 1990's.
"New Jersey is interesting because high-quality preschool was court-ordered," said Helen Blank, who helped write the report for the Children's Defense Fund. "In other states, there's not as much momentum to focus on quality. Most of the debate is in New Jersey and I think it's a good debate."
In New Jersey, that debate is continuing even as the budget ax hangs over the head of every school district. In recent years, many districts have complained that the state stalled in making decisions on financing and that those decisions often did not fill their needs.
Late last year, the state Supreme Court ordered New Jersey's Department of Education to adhere to strict deadlines to ensure fully financed preschool programs for the 2002-03 school year. But with the court's permission, the Education Law Center, a children's advocacy group that sued the state over its urban education policies, granted the McGreevey administration a more relaxed timetable.
This olive branch bore fruit last month when Governor McGreevey announced that he was including the law center in a new initiative to put compliance with the Abbott decision on the fast track without the need to return to the courtroom.
"The state will no longer be an obstacle," Mr. McGreevey said in announcing a more congenial relationship among the state's former courtroom combatants.
The case appeared to have been settled in 1998, when the justices ordered Christie Whitman, who was governor at the time, and the Republican-controlled State Legislature to provide the necessary financing and support to revamp education in the less advantaged districts. But the law center was disappointed in the state's performance when it came to preschool students and twice sought court intervention to force the state to do more.
If last month's agreement between the governor and the law center holds up and the issue does not land back in court, the justices will sit on the sidelines as the state implements the long-delayed preschool reforms.
"One thing we do know is what the court concluded," said David Sciarra, director of the law center. "The programs have to be very high-quality to narrow the early-learning gap between disadvantaged children and more advanced kids. The caveat is high-quality. That's why we continue to fight with the state."
Mr. Sciarra said he was far more optimistic with the new governor and that the pieces were starting to fall into place.
"The overhaul in the administration was critical," he said. "All I can say is, they've been very receptive of our mantra."
The new education commissioner, William Librera, said the state wants to listen, not litigate. "It's our intent to solve these problems and work together outside of the courthouse," the commissioner said. "This is a huge investment on so many levels."
Even the current budget crunch has not deflated newfound optimism that the state will finally deliver on decades of promises.
Mr. Sciarra said he expected that there would be adequate state resources for the court-ordered preschool programs, including money to build and renovate new schools in the Abbott districts.

Considering Firing a Consultant
What is crucial to improving the preschools is the ability to accurately assess the existing programs with an eye toward removing the flaws and narrowing the learning gap, Mr. Sciarra said.
Mr. Librera agreed, and said that one possibility was for the state to terminate a consultant hired by the previous administration to find a better way to monitor the progress of the program.
The consultant, Westat, a Maryland company brought in by the Whitman administration last year, found that the preschool program was off to a good start in some districts. It gave preschool programs in the Abbott districts a mean score of 4.72 out of a 7, the highest rating, which represents excellence; the lowest score, 1 reflects an inadequate or dangerously poor program.
In all, there were a variety of findings in the more than 200 classrooms that were visited by researchers, with scores ranging from 1.40 to 6.6. The report did not break down results by classroom or district. Westat concluded that classrooms were generally clean and well maintained and that the teachers were warm and stimulated the children.
For his part, however, Dr. Barnett said the results were too rosy. Comparing the report's conclusions with its numerical scoring of the classrooms, he said, "They spun like crazy."
In contrast to Westat's findings, Dr. Barnett's own review of programs in the 2000-1 school year concluded that fewer than 10 percent of the state's poorest children received adequate preschool education.
Until a comprehensive, longitudinal study is complete, measuring the quality of preschool is a difficult task, especially given the age of many of the school facilities in the state's poorest communities, said Anna DeMolli, assistant superintendent of the Paterson School District, where the entire preschool program is contracted out. "Don't look at the paint not being fancy or the furniture not being perfect or things like that," she said. "Look at the attraction between the child and the adult. That to me is where the real quality is reflected."
Dr. Barnett agreed, saying that it was too early to conclude whether the hodgepodge of programs is putting a dent in the learning gap.
For the last several years, the special-needs districts have had a mix of full-day and half-day programs. Even with the mandate from the state for full-day programs, two districts -- Passaic and Elizabeth -- have received waivers to allow them to continue their half-day programs because of a lack of adequate classroom space.
There is also a mix of programs. More than half of the 30 districts are using a combination of public and private facilities and staffs. Six are using private preschools exclusively, while five others are providing the instruction entirely in-house.
Dr. Barnett said he did not have a problem with the use of private day care centers, particularly in districts with no room for new class space to accommodate the additional children -- as long as the private contractors maintain the same standards as in the district's program.
"That's a big if," said Dr. Coletta.
For his part, his main concern is the ability of the private contractors to attract and retain qualified teachers.
After obtaining the requisite training, the teachers may be enticed by higher salaries offered by a public school district, or by suburban schools, Dr. Coletta said. "This could lead to a revolving door effect of younger, less-experienced teachers in programs that are in the greatest need of the best teachers," he said.
He said that teachers who used the state scholarship programs to earn preschool certification were only obligated to remain at their school for two years.
Mr. Sciarra said he was also troubled by the reliance on private preschools.
"Some of these are programs that two years ago operated as day care centers," he said. "How do we hold them accountable to close that learning gap over time?"
One way is to inspect their facilities and procedures, as an official with the state Division of Youth and Family Services did one morning last fall in Paterson.
Andy Williams, a spokesman for the Division of Youth and Family Services, said that according to the inspection report, the Little Children of the Future Care Center in Paterson was cited for inadequate record keeping and training of personnel, and was warned to take corrective measures.
Nonetheless, the mother of one 4-year-old who attended the center said she was happy with the care provided there.
"After he first came here he would say, 'Mommy, Mommy, leave,' " Kandice Easton said of her son, Daryl. "I knew he was all right. He's learning his colors and numbers. He's excited about homework. He's ready to go to school."
In Burlington City, Peggy Gens, supervisor of early childhood education, said the school district there chose to keep the program in-house because of the lack of private child-care providers in the small riverfront city.
Ms. Gans said the district had already been offering its own half-day program for 4-year-olds for 25 years before the new preschool mandates were implemented.
"For us to give that up would almost have been an insult to our community," she said.

The Program Has Its Problems
But the program is not without its problems. Facilities are cramped, and some children must be bused to other schools out of their neighborhoods. For instance, it took almost two years after passage of the landmark $8.6 billion school construction bill for the state to authorize approval for a new school wing to help ease overcrowding in the city.
"The key to closing the learning gap is providing disadvantaged youngsters with the highest quality programs, whether public or private," Dr. Barnett said. Components of an ideal preschool include highly educated, he said, are certified teachers, small class sizes, age-appropriate curriculum, a healthy and safe environment and access to social services.
He added: "The program must be designed as intensive intervention to overcome serious disadvantages. By far the most important things are the quality of the teachers and the teachers' intellectual interaction with the children."
Ms. Blank added that social services for children and family alike, like those found in the federally financed Head Start program, were also necessary.
Of course, all school officials said that parental involvement was essential.
Schools can persuade parents to emphasize education at home by sharing books if there are no local libraries or bookstores nearby, or by offering English as a Second Language courses, Dr. Barnett said.
Dr. Colleta said that studies show that academic achievement improves the more involved parents are in their children's education. It also gives a boost to teachers, who are frustrated by the lack of support from home.
He cited another study conducted by Louis Harris Associates that concluded that 14 percent of the teachers who left the profession said they did so because of the lack of support from parents.
"In urban districts, that figure has to be higher," said Dr. Coletta.
The success of any preschool program can be measured when graduates go on to kindergarten and beyond.
"Children who come to preschool are better able to participate in kindergarten," said Ms. Gens. "They have a longer attention span. They're more comfortable with language and literacy and better able to get along with each other.
Amy Kimmel, who has taught both preschool and kindergarten, has had a special perspective for judging the quality of the program in Vineland.
"Upon entering the kindergarten grade," Ms. Kimmel said, "those students who graduated from preschool have fantastic skills. They have friendships. They come understanding routines, that one event follows another."
As she put it, "They come with an ability to share."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Quality preschool, it is agreed, will help eliminate a learning gap. Kya Pace works at the Children of the Future school in Paterson, top. At El Mundo de Colores in Paterson, middle, Stephanie Guevara puts down Stephanie Guellar for a nap. At the Impact Center in Vineland, Dominque Afanador plays at the sand box. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Little Children of the Future in Paterson, above, has been told by the state to improve its training and record-keeping. Paterson has contracted with El Mundi de Colores to provide early childhood education as ordered by the courts for poorer districts. There, far left, Stephanie de Guellar, 2 1/2, prepares for a rest. At Impact Center in Vineland, part of the public schools, Amy Kimmel reads to Josue Burgos and Rachel Toffenetti, both 4.; The 3- and 4-year-olds at DiBiase Preschool in Vineland head outside to play. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); FARM LABOR (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; URBAN AREAS; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) 

PERSON: CANNON, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY; PATERSON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



418 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Wild CardOf the Recovery: Inflation

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE amazing strength of the American economy, despite the recession, has economists scrambling for explanations. Consumer resilience is much cited. So is price cutting. Who can resist a bargain, even in hard times? Less noticed, but crucial, is the boost that came from a declining inflation rate.
 Consumer spending, price cutting and lower inflation are interrelated, of course. But focusing on inflation produces a forecast of what might happen next to the economy that is different from the standard fare. Most forecasters are bullish: the recession, the 10th since World War II, is on its way out. Period. Focusing on inflation would also lead people to be bullish, but with less certainty. 
 First, the positives. Inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index fell precipitously to an annual rate of 1.1 percent in January from 3.2 last June. Rarely has inflation fallen that much, so quickly. Wages went in the opposite direction. Despite the recession, companies kept giving raises. "There was still enough pressure in the system from the very low unemployment of the boom years to keep wages rising," said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute. 
The raises were smaller, but tens of millions who escaped layoff received them. And the rapidly falling inflation rate gave those modest raises an extra kick. "Real" wages -- actual purchasing power, or wages adjusted for inflation -- rose in the fourth quarter by a greater percentage than in any quarter since the boom years of the 1990's.
No wonder that consumer spending has been so much greater than anyone had expected. Mr. Bernstein estimates that real compensation was $91 billion higher than it would have been if the inflation rate had not declined since June. That $91 billion, fully spent, explains much of the economic growth that appeared so unexpectedly in the fourth quarter, after the economy contracted in the third quarter.
Business was also helped by lower inflation. Most of the decline came from the sharp drop in energy prices. Energy is a big cost of production, and this lower cost gave companies more leeway to keep down the prices they charge consumers. Given their druthers, corporate America would have preferred mildly rising inflation and rising prices, while holding down labor costs by foot-dragging on raises. But in a world that produces so much more than people are willing to buy -- even avid consumers -- price cutting became the only option. And lower production costs made that easier. 
"The falling inflation rate was definitely fortuitous," said Brent Moulton, chief of the division at the Bureau of Economic Analysis that calculates changes in the gross domestic product, the scorecard for the economy. "It clearly helped companies weather the storm of the recession."
There were other contributions to the surprising economic strength. Tax rebates helped. Mortgage refinancing, made possible by falling interest rates, freed cash for family spending. Mild winter weather aided home construction. Rising labor productivity -- maintaining production levels with fewer paid hours of work -- lowered costs. Even without a stimulus bill, government spending rose, particularly for the military, adding unexpectedly to economic growth.
But the plunge in the inflation rate appears to have made the single biggest contribution, which brings us to the uncertainty mentioned earlier.
Can the inflation rate stay down long enough for the economy to reach the next, more durable stage of recovery? That stage will come when companies decide that demand is sufficient to justify rebuilding inventories. Then they reorder; perhaps they already have. Production rises, and companies decide again to expand, increasing outlays for new equipment and buildings. A drop in capital spending brought on the recession in the first place, last March.
THE torpedo in this chain of events would be rising inflation, compounded by the end of mortgage refinancing and the absence of additional tax rebates. And the inflation rate might rise. It fell mainly because energy prices fell, and lately oil has started up again. Last Monday, the Department of Energy reported that the average price of gasoline had jumped 12 cents a gallon since mid-February. That is money that consumers must now put aside for fuel, much of it imported, and not for consumption of the goods and services more likely to stimulate America's economic growth.
But if incomes are invaded, there could be an offset. Prices of almost everything but energy may stay down, or fall a bit, simply because of such overabundance. The next stage for the American economy, in other words, is still a cliffhanger.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the change in consumer prices from same period a year earlier. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); RECESSION (92%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); WORLD WAR II (55%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



419 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING; 
How to Get a Company's Attention on Women's Pay

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of "The Good, the Bad, and Your Business" (John Wiley & Sons). His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WOMEN who are managers make less money than their male counterparts. There's no shock there. But for decades, that salary gap has been shrinking -- until now.
 In a recently released study of the 10 industries that employed the most women from 1995 to 2000, the General Accounting Office found that the gap between the salaries of men and women had widened for managers in seven of those sectors. The largest widening was in entertainment and recreational services, where female managers were earning just 62 cents for every dollar made by a male manager in 2000, down from 83 cents in 1995. Only three industries showed improvement for women -- albeit slight. The biggest gain was in educational services, where the figure rose to 91 cents on the dollar, from 86 cents. 
 The G.A.O. report is supported by other studies, including one conducted by the Women's Research and Education Institute in Washington showing that overall managerial salaries for women slipped to 71.3 cents in 2000 from 73 cents in 1995.
An obvious question arises from these findings: Is it is ever ethically justifiable for executives, men or women, who make compensation decisions to pay women less than they pay men for doing the exact same job? There's no gray area here. The answer is no.
Certainly, explanations can be found for the gap. "Just because there is the presence of a wage gap, one should be hesitant to infer that there's discrimination going on," said Elizabeth Owens, a government affairs manager for the Society for Human Resource Management in Alexandria, Va. "A problem with these pay-gap studies is that they don't take into account individual choices that people make about what jobs they want and what they don't." Some women, for example, may decide to work fewer hours to meet family needs.
Still, it's impossible to dismiss discrimination outright as a reason for the widening of the gap. Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, says a study like this turns a spotlight on "basic fairness issues." 
Variations in lifestyle choices might justify the existence of a wage gap. So, too, might the varying levels of experience and managerial responsibility that the G.A.O. study couldn't measure. What these factors don't explain, however, is why the gap has grown.
"The change is bad news for women," said Heidi Hartmann, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research in Washington. "Women have been getting more education and staying in the labor market longer. Women are doing everything right, and still this is happening. Progress has stopped."
Others say the slippage may result more from losing sight of the issue. "I don't think it matters less to us," said Laura P. Hartman, a business ethics professor at DePaul University in Chicago. "But I think we've paid less attention to it and become complacent."
Consider this, then, the sounding of an ethical alarm to stem the widening gap. But how?
For anyone who notices wage disparity in his or her company, the initial impulse may be to raise a ruckus in the workplace demanding equal pay for equal managerial jobs. But such loud noise may be counterproductive. 
"This is a volatile issue," said Joseph L. Badaracco Jr., a business ethics professor at Harvard Business School and author of "Leading Quietly" (Harvard Business School Press). "Most people don't like to be accused of being unfair, and they like it even less if you rub their face in it by documenting it. This is a minefield."
The first step, he said, is to "have some indication that there is a conspicuous disparity within your organization."
"Without that," he added, "you're not going to get anywhere waving a government study."
Next, he suggests going to a couple of people within the organization whom you trust, to see if you have the facts right and to learn who else might be sympathetic to finding a solution.
The wage gap is the kind of issue "where behind closed doors in a friendly rather than threatening way, and with analysis, somebody could make a case," Professor Badaracco said. "And the case is roughly, 'Look, there are disparities; the women in the organization know about them. Things could get stirred up. We could get sued. Can we work together to find some way to move forward?' "
Ultimately, you have to go to someone who has the power to make changes. Regardless, Professor Badaracco said, "you have to move with extreme caution."
True enough. There's no upside to raising an issue in a way that creates only divisiveness. But doing something, cautiously or not, is imperative. It's unconscionable that women make less as managers than they did five years ago. American business should be ashamed.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Cathy Hull) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); ETHICS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); MEN (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; DISCRIMINATION; WOMEN; MEN 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (50%) SEGLIN, JEFFREY L 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



420 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Networking and Social Graces Aren't Incompatible

BYLINE:  By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
WHILE attending a wedding reception last December in Great Neck, N.Y., Andrea Nierenberg, a corporate trainer from Manhattan, thought it was a little odd when the guest seated across from her began passing out business cards. At first, she went along with it, thinking that he was just outgoing. 
 But she was taken aback when this guest, a stockbroker, began asking everyone at the table about their investments, jotting down notes, then boasting that he could provide better returns. The next day he called her and some of the other guests; not only did he want to set up appointments, but he also asked for phone numbers of other people who might want his advice, she said. 
 "We were aghast because this had been a social event and this man had been so pushy," Ms. Nierenberg, 46, said. "Networking is all about establishing relationships and building trust, but he started working on us before we even got to the soup." 
Ms. Nierenberg's experience is hardly uncommon. Pressed for time and worried about the skittish economy, many people have been networking at a frenzied pace, career and network consultants say, whether to find a job, drum up business, become appointed to a corporate board or professional organization or even break into a particular social circle.
But there is a right way and a wrong way to network. To help people learn networking etiquette, a growing number of courses and seminars are being offered across the country, and many of the organizers say that they have been filling up as fast as they are offered.
Ms. Nierenberg said the number of networking etiquette courses she has offered through her company, the Nierenberg Group, has tripled over the last two years. Paul Bernard, a career management consultant and executive coach in Manhattan, estimates that he is turning away about 25 percent of the people who want to attend his seminars on the topic. And Marsha Gordon, president of the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, said the best-attended networking round table sponsored by her group was the one last month about etiquette.
By many accounts, such sessions are needed. Career and etiquette consultants say the race to network has fostered an almost appalling breakdown in manners. They offer these examples: A frozen-faced photographer hands out business cards during a networking party, barely uttering a word, much less extending a handshake. A young lawyer drones on to her father's high-ranking friends, treating each like a personal career adviser. A financial services employee asks a friend of a friend if he can copy his electronic Rolodex.
Some networking consultants say the deterioration in manners is partly attributable to technology. E-mail, for example, makes it easier to fire off messages en masse -- whether to members of an alumni group or a trade organization.
"I've seen a lot of people networking like robots lately," said Donna Fisher, a corporate trainer based in Houston and co-author of "Power Networking: 59 Secrets for Personal and Professional Success" (Bard Press) and author of "Professional Networking for Dummies" (Hungry Minds).
Mr. Bernard said he began offering courses focusing on networking etiquette after hearing complaints about egregious behavior from colleagues and friends. One cosmetics executive, he said, told him that she was going to stop being a networking source altogether.
"She was tired of everyone being so rude, of networking being a one-way street, and no one ever, ever saying 'thank you,' " Mr. Bernard said. "This executive was so angry that she had literally taken her name off of an alumni server list."
During a networking etiquette seminar last month at his Midtown Manhattan office, Mr. Bernard spent four hours offering etiquette tips to 16 enthusiastic members of a local Duke University alumni club. The group included an actress, an art dealer, a lawyer and a technology executive who, after 30 years in the work force, recently lost his job. While some were looking for advice that could help land them work, others were hoping that mannerly networking would make them more effective in their present jobs.
Networking etiquette is also important at the Katharine Gibbs Schools, which in their early days focused mostly on pumps-and-pearls training and etiquette for secretaries. The schools now offer training in areas like computer technology, design and hospitality. 
Patricia Martin, managing director of the Katharine Gibbs division of the Career Education Corporation in Hoffman Estates, Ill., said all nine Katharine Gibbs schools would soon begin offering networking etiquette seminars to their current students and alumni. The schools want to offer the seminars to the public eventually, she added.
Lately, Ms. Martin said, she has noticed a "a more assertive type of networking that is not always effective," usually taking the form of multiple phone calls, showing up without appointments, and sometimes using the name of a referral or contact that the person barely knows. (All are no-no's.) 
Often, she said, the assertiveness backfires, especially if the truth is stretched. At one social gathering, she said, a potential networker "ended up describing her job history to the human resources director of a company where the woman said she had once worked, but in fact, hadn't."
Networking consultants say many people simply do not realize that successful networking is reciprocal by definition. At the etiquette seminar for Duke alumni, Mr. Bernard repeatedly told the group to "always be prepared to give back" to a networking contact, even if only by sending him or her a potentially interesting newspaper or magazine clipping. 
Ms. Fisher agreed. "I tell people to ask, thank and offer, in every single conversation, even if it's just saying: 'Thank you. Now, what can I do for you?' Most often, people will tell you that they don't need anything, but the point is that you offered, and that alone may set you apart."
Networkers also need to beware of questionable advice. When Brian S. Model, 35, now employed as a venture capitalist at Silicon Alley Venture Partners in New York, was interviewing for a job last year while finishing his M.B.A. degree, one recruiter for a New York bank recommended that he not send thank-you notes afterward. Written notes, he recalled the recruiter saying, offer a chance to misspell an interviewer's name, and they usually arrive after an employment decision has been made about the writer. 
Mr. Model doesn't buy that advice. "To me, a thank-you note is just common courtesy, and it may actually reinforce any positive impressions that I might have made earlier," he said. He added that he suspects the thank-you note he sent to his current employer may have helped distinguish him on a short list of job candidates.
Most networking advisers also stand by thank-you notes. And they offer a few other suggestions on the proper ways to network:
* At a company or industry event, don't stand in a corner, waiting to be introduced. Reach out to someone graciously, even if it means pointing them in the right direction of the appetizers. 
* Don't use voice-mail messages for networking. Have live conversations on the telephone, but keep them to no more than five to seven minutes. 
* Ask open-ended questions that cannot be answered with a simple "yes" or "no." 
* Keep note cards on hand so that they can be dashed off quickly. If time is a problem, first send a thank-you message by e-mail, then follow up with a written note within a day. (For an extra-special thank-you, a small book, flowers or chocolates may be appropriate.) 
* Always follow through. Don't ignore requests for more information about yourself.
PEOPLE who are asked for help have found ways to deal with egregious behavior. Ms. Nierenberg, for example, said she received an e-mail message on New Year's Day from someone she hardly knew. This person had sent a resume and had asked for the names of everyone she knew in the area of direct marketing. 
"I e-mailed this person back and told him that in order for me to do that I first needed to have a conversation with him, because it was my reputation that was on the line," she said. "I guess he really was just in this for himself, because I'm still waiting for him to call." 
As for that boorish man at the wedding, Ms. Nierenberg says she essentially told him the same thing. She asked him, for example, to send her some information about himself and his company.
"I've never heard from him either," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian S. Model, a venture capitalist, says job seekers should send thank-you notes to interviewers. He calls it "common courtesy." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BOARD CHANGES (70%); ALUMNI (69%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (65%) CUSTOMS, ETIQUETTE AND MANNERS; CONSULTANTS 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



421 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED; 
Beyond 'Celebrity Boxing'

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND 

 BODY:
AS Tanya Harding stepped into the boxing ring with Paula Jones on the Fox network last week, the event raised questions about the confluence of celebrity and national security. Consider: In keeping with the Bush administration's Continuity of Operations plan, which established a shadow government to run the country in case of an attack on Washington, shouldn't there be a second, shadow celebrity fight in a secure, underground bunker? 
 For a nation under threat of terrorism, making sure the government keeps going is not enough. America may be a country of laws and lawmakers, but it is also one where every individual takes for granted the right to see has-been celebrities embarrass themselves for money and attention. Who is safeguarding this fundamental liberty? Past negligence led to the outbreak of high-mindedness that threatened to engulf the nation after Sept. 11. 
 A shadow celebrity fight card is just one possible job for an expanded military-entertainment complex. Studio heads should now be planning a shadow Oscar ceremony. Pia Zadora would be a lock for best actress. For Ms. Zadora, perhaps best known for her role in the musical "Voyage of the Rock Aliens," it would cap a career of shunned movies and television shows. And it would beat lacing up the gloves with, say, Shannon Doherty, just to get attention. 
For best original score, "Let the Eagle Soar," Attorney General John Ashcroft's rousing composition, which he performed at a speech in North Carolina, is a natural. This performance, a clip of which has run on "Late Night," represents everything that should be kept hidden, preferably underground. If only such a measure had existed when Celine Dion did the songs for "Titanic." 
And why stop at the Oscars? Next week, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame will induct the Ramones, but without that punk rock band's most recent bassist, C. J. Ramone, whose contributions were deemed incidental. Do I hear the words "Shadow Hall of Fame"? C. J., start polishing your acceptance speech.
Some shadow celebrities -- say, Fabrice Morvan, the surviving member of the disgraced 1980's pop duo Milli Vanilli -- could already be living 24 hours a day underground. After Sept. 11, entertainers far and wide waxed earnest about reassessing their priorities. For many, no doubt, that means finding a gig. If American popular culture has come to stand for anything, it is for full employment for former celebrities, however tenuous their claim to fame. Bunkers would ensure that no celebrity has-been gets left behind. 
A shadow consortium of fashion designers could also set up a bunker in the Hamptons, perhaps to advise the astronomers at Johns Hopkins University who reported last week that the universe was really beige. Designers have been saying every few years that beige was the new black. Finally, they have someone ready to listen.
Civil liberties groups might protest the secret programs, arguing that the government has no authority to conduct gratuitous celebrity degradation in secret. After all, this humiliation belongs to the public. 
Other events beside "Celebrity Boxing" illustrate how much the culture economy relies on fresh humiliation, especially when staged for its own sake. In ABC's unsuccessful effort to lure David Letterman to replace "Nightline," the choice at the network was not just one between news and entertainment. It was between a host who treats his guests with dignity and one who likes to twist the knife. For the networks, this was an easy decision. 
For a shadow version of the boxing card, the possibilities are endless. That's the good thing about footnote-caliber celebrities: there are so many of them. Perhaps Roger Clinton vs. the future has-been Ben Curtis, the guy in the smarmy Dell commercials. Optimally, Mr. Curtis would be a last-minute replacement for the publicist Lizzie Grubman, scratched after a minor traffic accident while backing her S.U.V. into the bunker's parking lot. 
It should be a clean fight, with none of the profanity or ear biting you see at real boxing matches. Those are the ground rules for spectacles of staged humiliation, aboveground or below: there's no real scandal, and nobody gets hurt. Just complicit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); BOXING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); MUSIC (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); FASHION DESIGN (60%) TERRORISM; BOXING; TELEVISION; MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM (CLEVELAND) 

PERSON: CELINE DION (57%) LELAND, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: CELEBRITY BOXING (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



422 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
A Master's Insights Are Undiminished by Time

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I WAS struck last week by a common feature of some obituaries for James Tobin, the Yale finance professor and 1981 Nobel laureate who died on Monday: they implicitly minimized the relevance of his work to today's investors. 
 Great emphasis was placed on how revolutionary his insights were three, four or five decades ago. Yet most were relatively silent on how those insights can lead us to be more successful investors today. 
 That is a shame. Investors greatly handicap themselves if they ignore Dr. Tobin's work. 
Consider Tobin's Q, the ratio for which Dr. Tobin, at least at one time, was most famous among investors. This is the ratio of a company's total market capitalization to the replacement value of that company's total assets. While the Q ratio -- as Tobin's Q is often called -- is conceptually similar to the price-to-book ratio, it avoids the myriad accounting difficulties associated with book value. For example, while book value carries assets at depreciated original cost, replacement value focuses on how much it would cost to buy those assets today.
Companies with the highest Q ratios are those that investors believe will grow fastest. Investors have great confidence in these companies' managements. In contrast, a low Q ratio is a vote of no confidence.
Tobin's Q fell out of favor in the early 1990's, when it began suggesting that American stocks were overvalued. While the bear market of the last two years may lead some investors to reconsider their dismissal of this ratio, it is important to remember that the Q ratio was never intended solely, or even primarily, as a market-timing tool.
Analyzing mergers and acquisitions is one of the more valuable of the current uses to which investors can put Tobin's Q. Using the ratio, researchers have found, for example, that the stock market places significantly lower valuations on highly diversified companies than on more narrowly diversified ones -- a pattern sometimes called "the diversification discount." This means that conglomerates are often less than the sum of their parts.
That suggests a lesson: investors should view proposed mergers with a jaundiced eye.
Consider AOL and Time Warner, a celebrated current example. There is no doubt that AOL got a great deal in 2000 when it used its then high-priced stock to buy Time Warner, and that its shareholders are wealthier today than they would have been otherwise. But what about Time Warner shareholders? Would the combined market caps of the companies be greater today had they not merged? The best guess is "yes."
Of course, in individual instances, , the answer is not certain because a company's valuation is a function of myriad factors. But by analyzing the Q ratios of many different companies -- ones that merge as well as those that break into their component parts -- the impact of diversification becomes possible to measure. 
Two finance professors who have extensively studied both kinds of companies are Owen Lamont of the University of Chicago and Christopher Polk of Northwestern. In the January issue of The Journal of Financial Economics, they concluded confidently that "diversification destroys value."
It is doubtful that diversification's destructive potential would have been discovered without Dr. Tobin's work. Without his Q ratio, in fact, researchers today would be bickering endlessly over whether the diversification discount genuinely exists. Because of him, most analysts today can instead devote their time to the more helpful task of determining why it exists.
Andrew Metrick, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, reminds us: "Tobin taught us how investors' decisions are crucially linked with the real economy, lessons that reverberate through every part of finance research and practice. He will be sorely missed."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Discounted Assets"The Q ratio, devised by the late James Tobin, measures the relationship between a company's market price and the replacement value of its assets. A new study using the ratio finds that the average conglomerate would be worth more if it were split into its component parts. Graph shows the price discount of conglomerates since 1979. (Sources: Prof. Owen Lamont, University of Chicago, and Prof. Christopher Polk, Northwestern University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); MERGERS (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); BONDS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK; TOBIN, JAMES (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



423 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
A Management Revolution Still in the Making

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
MANAGEMENT and computing have always been an odd couple. 
 The disciplines are so different. Consider the basic craft of writing software, the programming instructions that animate everything from a laptop computer to the Internet. The task is mathematical and precise. The code runs or it has errors. It is a world of right and wrong answers, with a satisfying clarity. 
 Business management, by contrast, seems to be a realm of mushy generalization. Its principles and pronouncements -- "put customers first" or "embrace change" -- sound at once preachy and obvious.
Yet management and computing have had a relationship of deep mutual dependence at least since the 1960's, when the versatile I.B.M. 360 mainframe brought computing into the mainstream of the corporate world. 
Ever since, computers have been essential tools of management, used to run and monitor manufacturing, procurement, accounting and marketing. The data-processing power of big computer systems helped manage the multinational corporations that spread in the 60's and 70's. In the 80's, the PC put computing power on desktops and in the hands of entrepreneurs and small companies.
For its part, the computer industry benefited enormously from the leap of faith, made by generation after generation of corporate managers, that the latest information technology would indeed pay off. They invested despite the enduring skepticism of much of the economics profession.
As Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, once put it: "You can see the computer age everywhere but in the productivity statistics." And corporate managers have kept investing despite the cycles of disillusion with the grand promises sometimes made by the computer industry's eager sales force.
We are well into the trough of one such cycle of disenchantment and second-guessing. Managers, investors and economists are puzzling over just what will be the lasting impact of the Internet and the related computing and communications technologies that surround it. 
Frances Cairncross, the management editor of The Economist, takes the long view and emerges as a sober optimist in "The Company of the Future" (Harvard Business School Press, $27.50). Ms. Cairncross has written a book of informed perspective and careful analysis for businesspeople.
Her starting point is that the technology will be far less important in starting new businesses -- the dot-com model -- than in transforming established companies. The book is brimming with analogies to technologies of the past, including the use of electricity in factories. Companies began using electric motors in production, replacing steam engines, in the 19th century. But the real breakthrough in productivity came only with Ford's managerial innovation in 1913 of organizing production in moving assembly lines.
The Internet, Ms. Cairncross writes, still awaits the business innovations that will truly exploit its potential as a tool of economic efficiency and organizational change. But she has little doubt that the evolution will occur. "The Internet may prove just as potent a force for reshaping companies in the 21st century as electricity and mass production did in the 20th," she writes.
Unlike electricity, the Internet is primarily a low-cost and flexible communications technology. Yet implications extend well beyond now-ubiquitous e-mail. (The average American office worker receives 36 e-mail messages a day, seven times more than voicemail, Ms. Cairncross notes.)
The Internet will greatly reduce the cost of finding information, staying connected to customers and suppliers and buying and selling. The payoff here comes in savings in customer service, purchasing and procurement. Much of this is the seemingly boring back office of the business, but these quotidian transactions represent a huge slice of the economy -- and the potential for sustained improvements in productivity.
Promising anecdotal evidence abounds, and Ms. Cairncross cites many examples. General Electric calculates that a simple order costs $5 if it is taken by telephone, but only 20 cents if it comes online. Ryanair, the Irish budget airline, cut its sales, marketing and distribution costs 62 percent by selling more than 90 percent of tickets online. In corporate buying departments, the cost of a conventional purchase order is $100, compared with $10 online, according to the Boston Consulting Group.
YET, returning to her theme, Ms. Cairncross stresses that capturing the cost savings broadly requires changes in management practices and corporate culture. Purchasing, she writes, might account for 50 percent to 80 percent of a company's spending, but the department has often been regarded as "a corporate Siberia, one of life's dead ends."
Closer, strategic links with suppliers -- promising big gains in efficiency -- are also made easier and less costly by the Internet. But that requires a culture of openness as well as careful monitoring of relationships with suppliers, Ms. Cairncross states. Dell Computer is her marquee example. "In effect," she writes, "Dell posts its actual manufacturing schedule on a private extranet -- a walled-off bit of the Internet -- for suppliers." When a customer orders a PC on Dell's Web site, clever software feeds the order into the company's production schedule and suppliers see instantly what is needed.
"Thus the Internet," she writes, "turns the company into a sort of portal -- a semiprivate exchange -- through which orders arrive for redistribution among suppliers."
Dell, in fact, makes the author's point that technology is only a tool -- if a powerful one -- that management is crucial and that the changes in business practices take time. She does not write, though she might have, that Dell has been refining its business model of direct marketing to customers and forging close links with suppliers the last 15 years, well before the Internet moved into the mainstream in the mid-1990's. 
No one in the fleet-footed PC industry has caught Dell yet. Its advantage isn't technology. It's management. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Internet's influence on the business world may well rival the impact of Ford's moving assembly line. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WRITERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (74%); SALES FORCE (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); INDUSTRIAL PURCHASING (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); LITERATURE (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

PERSON: CAIRNCROSS, FRANCES; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

TITLE: COMPANY OF THE FUTURE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



424 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2473 words

HEADLINE: As Global Lenders Refocus, a Needy World Waits 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
MEDDLING relatives usually mean well but, as everyone knows, sometimes they just make things worse.
 To many critics, both expert and casual, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund fall into the same camp. 
 Created 57 years ago to reduce poverty and to stabilize foreign currency markets, the institutions, based a block apart in Washington, have continually struggled to meet the expectations of their big shareholders -- the world's rich nations -- as well as those of their supposed beneficiaries in the developing world.
In Haiti, for example, the World Bank has supported 41 projects over the last 50 years with more than $1 billion in loans, and the I.M.F. has lent the country $150 million in the last two decades alone. Yet more than 80 percent of Haiti's population still lives in poverty, compared with 65 percent in 1987. And the conditions on the aid from the World Bank and the I.M.F. -- including removing tariffs and growing crops intended mainly for export, like coffee -- have allowed imports to displace food crops like sugar cane and rice. While political upheavals in Haiti undoubtedly share the blame for its destitution, critics say mismanagement and economic policies mandated by the aid packages bear some responsibility. 
Tomorrow, global policy makers will convene in Monterrey, Mexico, for the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development; and when President Bush speaks there, on Friday, he is expected to repeat his calls for reform and accountability at the World Bank, which has recently been accused of squandering billions on ineffective projects. The I.M.F. will also have much to answer for. Argentina's recent economic collapse, despite policy prescriptions and billions in aid from the I.M.F., threw millions of middle-class people into poverty.
The decades-long debate over the role of the bank and the fund heated up in 1997, when Kofi Annan became secretary general of the United Nations and called for a dialogue on development financing. Since Sept. 11, as rich nations have focused on resentment in the developing world, matters have grown more urgent. 
Those rich nations have sent the World Bank and the I.M.F. to face down some of the world's toughest economic problems. Yet the two institutions have often failed to turn deep political backing, world-class brainpower and billions in funds into good results.
Both now say they are improving their performance through internal reforms, even as they also grasp for new responsibilities. But the world's hunger for radical change -- in terms of which countries receive aid, how much is made available and how it is distributed -- could overtake their efforts.
THE World Bank makes loans to countries, usually for specific projects, at interest rates that reflect their fiscal conditions. Its locally based staff helps to manage the projects, which in the past focused on building dams, paving roads or wiring electricity grids but now deal more with improving health and education. The I.M.F. sends teams of economists, with billions in loans, to rescue countries facing financial crises. But it, too, makes loans for development.
The bank -- which has lately taken to trumpeting its success in leading fast-developing countries like China and India to higher literacy and lower infant mortality rates -- acknowledges some failures. Its reports state that living standards simply have not improved in much of sub-Saharan Africa, where since the 1960's it has invested tens of billions of dollars, some stolen by corrupt rulers and some built into huge power and transportation projects idly awaiting the use of foreign companies.
The bank's president, James D. Wolfensohn, is vocally urging rich countries to increase foreign aid, disbursed both directly and through the bank. But his many critics, including some who question his management style, do not trust him to use more aid effectively.
"He's not a good manager," said Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development, a new policy group in Washington. "He's a visionary," she said, adding that she respected his passion for development but that his ability to lead the bank was limited.
Mr. Wolfensohn acknowledged that the bank had been ineffective in the past. But he contended that it had made significant strides. "Reform takes time in an institution with a 57-year history," he said by e-mail. "But I wouldn't underestimate how much change has already taken place at the bank. Some of our critics seem to be stuck somewhere in the bank of the 1980's."
The I.M.F., meanwhile, has been under attack for its handling of the crisis in Argentina. Despite billions in aid and advice, the country defaulted on about $141 billion in public debt, froze private bank accounts and devalued the peso, instantly destroying the purchasing power of millions of families and resulting in mass unemployment, hunger and civil unrest. Economists say the situation shows just how little the fund understands economic fundamentals of many countries.
In its defense, the fund's officials have said repeatedly that countries must take credit and blame for their own situations. They also said that advice offered earlier, when Argentina did not need the fund's money, went unheeded.
Critics are unconvinced. "It's disingenuous to say that it was the country's own making," said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate in economics and professor at Columbia University who sparred with the I.M.F. while serving as chief economist of the bank. "The I.M.F. is taken seriously in the advice that it gives."
The bank and the fund gained reputations for uncompromising and often unsuccessful policies in the 1980's and early 90's, when they encouraged countries to pursue development plans that were based on rigorous economic logic but failed to consider local circumstances.
Like an emergency room doctor who gives every patient an appendectomy regardless of the symptoms, the institutions treated almost every developing nation the same -- with a package often referred to as "structural adjustment." Usually, in return for aid, they imposed strict budgetary discipline, the ending of subsidies for food and other basics, increases in the cost of public services like health care and the elimination of trade barriers.
With so many changes coming at once, depressed economies struggled to grow as imports flooded in and traditional industries collapsed. Sometimes, poverty worsened.
"A lot of the structural-adjustment agenda was right, but was too brutally implemented," said Clare Short, Britain's secretary of state for international development. Changes were necessary in countries with high tariffs, big subsidies for manufacturers and decentralized agriculture, she said, but the bank and the fund were not mindful of economic disruptions and eroding support for their policies.
"The political price in resistance to any reform was a very serious obstacle to further progress," Ms. Short said.
IN the last decade, critics of the two institutions' methods went on the offensive. "The signals came from outside the World Bank that things were not going all that well, that the structural adjustments policies were not delivering what everyone hoped," Dr. Birdsall said. The countries that put the programs into effect became more stable, she said, but economic growth and a reduction in poverty did not automatically follow. Nonetheless, the bank continues to offer a third of its aid -- $5.8 billion in 2001 -- for structural adjustment.
Though both the bank and the fund engage in development, the fund takes the lead in ushering countries through financial crises. There, too, the policies of the last two decades have come under fire. "They went into countries facing economic downturns and said, 'Make them worse,' " Professor Stiglitz said. 
The results were sometimes perverse. In Argentina, an I.M.F. price stabilization program pegged utility prices to the dollar, he said. As the peso fell in value, the cost of electricity soared, enriching utilities while straining ordinary families.
Professor Stiglitz said I.M.F. policies, including lower government spending and higher interest rates on central bank lending imposed on East Asian nations in 1998, had never brought a country to prosperity.
The I.M.F. has also been criticized as failing to encourage countries to make the most difficult economic decisions. Many economists say that in Argentina, the fund focused on nit-picking reforms of the government's budget and financing rules instead of the harder task of advising the country how to unhitch its currency from the American dollar.
"Everybody knew for months that the currency board had to go, and everybody knew that it would be a terribly messy affair," said Charles Wyplosz, co-director of the international macroeconomics program at the Center for Economic Policy Research, based in London.
Yet the fund made several other conditions for aid instead, as it had in East Asia. "The conditions often tend to be millions of little details, and not the big picture, so countries can pretend to fulfill part of the request," Dr. Wyplosz said. "They fulfill the menial ones and not the main ones, so there's a game going on that can go on for years."
CRITICISM of the bank and the fund peaked in 2000, when a commission organized by Congress and headed by Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University, released a report calling for wholesale reform of both institutions, especially the World Bank. Lately, complaints about the bank have centered on Mr. Wolfensohn, a former investment banker who became its president in 1995 and said he expects to remain in office until his second term ends in 2005.
In the journal Foreign Affairs last fall, Jessica Einhorn, a former managing director at the bank, accused Mr. Wolfensohn of taking on too many disparate missions. The bank's mission, she wrote, has become so complex that it "strains credulity" to portray it as a manageable organization. "The bank takes on challenges that lie far beyond any institution's operational capabilities," she wrote.
Mr. Wolfensohn acknowledges pushing the bank in new directions and says it has made progress in areas like debt relief, anti-corruption programs and community-driven development. Yet on the basic goal of eliminating poverty, the numbers show mixed results: progress in big countries like China and India but little change in many poor, sometimes war-torn areas like sub-Saharan Africa, which is also ravaged by AIDS.
It is hard to distribute blame precisely or to know which solutions will work better. That has not stopped everyone from street protesters to world leaders from offering ideas. Lately, many of them have come from the United States Treasury Department. Paul H. O'Neill, the secretary, has recommended that the bank turn half its lowest-interest loans into grants, so that countries trying to grow do not incur a debt burden.
Opposition to that proposal, mostly from Europe, has been fierce. "We think it's profoundly wrong," said Ms. Short, the British cabinet member. She argued that governments would be more likely to use grants in wasteful ways, because no one would ever come looking for repayment.
Professor Stiglitz said some countries should be asked to repay loans so that the money can be recycled for other countries to use. "If a country like Chile or China is getting richer," he said, "they're going to be able to repay that debt."
Some economists support the shift to grants because, they say, private markets can now finance developing countries where the money is likely to be used wisely. J. Bradford DeLong, a professor of development economics at the University of California at Berkeley, said countries that did not attract lenders in the open markets probably should not be borrowing at all.
Nicholas H. Stern, the chief economist of the World Bank, counters that private markets would not finance the kind of long-term projects that lay the groundwork for higher standards of living. "The markets are looking at their return," he said. "What we're looking for is the return to growth and opportunity over a long period of time."
Though he noted that the rich countries that control the bank would make the final decision, Dr. Stern indicated that the two sides could be nearing a compromise on replacing some loans with grants.
Skeptics, including Professor Stiglitz, have suggested that Mr. O'Neill's true aim is to reduce the scope of American aid, a sensitive issue in a time of budget deficits. But Dr. Stern said he saw evidence that the Bush administration was "seriously devoted" to development.
Among Mr. O'Neill's other recommendations was to shift the bank's focus from reducing poverty to raising labor productivity, which he says can be more accurately assessed, to bolster the bank's accountability. In "The Elusive Quest for Growth," a book published last summer, William Easterly, an economist formerly at the bank, asserted that billions in aid had been squandered on poorly designed programs.
Critics say Mr. O'Neill's focus on productivity smacks of 1980's-style "trickle down" economics because productivity gains among the poor can end up lining the pockets of wealthy employers. They also say that rising productivity may not be any easier to measure than falling poverty is now. "I don't know how you measure the productivity of projects," Dr. Wyplosz said. "People will produce numbers that have no precision whatsoever, so we'll be massaging numbers instead of massaging reports."
REFLECTING the historically cozy relationship between the Treasury Department and the I.M.F., Mr. O'Neill has left the fund to plan its own reforms. It has begun to seek ways to help bankrupt countries without resorting to expensive bailouts, which critics like Professor Stiglitz say were meant primarily to allow wealthy investors to recover their money. As a substitute for bailouts, the fund has proposed a tribunal for restructuring the debts of insolvent countries.
Last November, Anne O. Krueger, the first deputy director of the I.M.F., suggested that the fund could sponsor a bankruptcy procedure for countries in crisis. In such a system, claims would be frozen and the fund would provide interim aid and help work out who will be repaid and how. Investors cried foul, arguing that the fund could not supply money to a country and, as a creditor itself, decide who ought to be repaid. The fund is revising its proposal.
Few people expect the meeting in Monterrey to generate new aid pledges or innovative development strategies. But the dialogue could speed the process. Neither the World Bank nor the I.M.F. is close to completing its mission. More than a billion people still live on less than $1 a day, and crises strike developing countries with alarming frequency. "This," Dr. Stern said, "is a long haul."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Critics say the World Bank has done little toward eliminating poverty in sub-Saharan Africa, where AIDS still ravages countries like South Africa. (Joao Silva for The New York Times); James D. Wolfensohn, the chief of the World Bank since 1995, has been criticized as ineffective but says the bank has made strides. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 11); International aid programs have resulted in disruptive economic changes in many developing countries. Policies that hurt rice and sugar cane farmers in Haiti, for example, led to protests there last month in which the police clashed with demonstrators. (Associated Press)(pg. 1) Chart: "Global Brands Of Economic Aid" WORLD BANKEven though some of its economic remedies have been criticized as too harsh, the World Bank still asks countries receiving one-third of its loans to make radical reforms. Graph shows LOANS BASED ON REFORM and OTHER LOANS since 1993. INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUNDDespite many calls for it to refocus on its original role of fighting financial crises, the I.M.F. is using more resources to fight poverty. Graph shows the Poverty loans* since 1993. *Lending by the Poverty Reform and Growth Facility of the I.M.F.(Sources: World Bank; International Monetary Fund)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRENDS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



425 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: The World: Natural Resourcefulness; 
Today's Silk Road Might Carry Black Gold

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

 BODY:
WITH fighting now ending in Afghanistan's eastern mountains and Bush administration officials asserting that the Afghan campaign will be over in a matter of months, the world is beginning to focus on rebuilding that shattered country. 
 It is a daunting task. Poor in natural resources, Afghanistan has been ravaged by years of drought as well as war. The president of neighboring Uzbekistan was simply stating fact when he said last week that since time immemorial, Afghanistan has been dominated by warlords and torn by "constant, permanent interethnic strife." 
 Donor nations have pledged more than $4.5 billion over the next five years toward the reconstruction effort. But in trying to help the country learn to stand on its own financial feet, they may conclude that -- as in the time of the ancient Silk Road -- a central source of Afghanistan's wealth lies not in what it holds or produces, but in what passes through it. 
In the early 1990's, three countries around the Caspian Sea -- Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan -- were found to be awash in vast reserves of oil and gas, second only to those beneath the Persian Gulf. Because all three are landlocked, control over their billions of dollars worth of oil and gas depends on control over the pipelines that will carry it to market. Several lines already exist; new ones are urgently needed.
The Afghan conflict, the first major war in Central Asia since the oil and gas finds, has reshuffled the geopolitical deck and made a pipeline route through Afghanistan, for which some American oil executives were lobbying as recently as the mid-1990's, feasible once again. A variety of other routes -- each of which would benefit a different constellation of countries and energy companies -- are also under consideration. 
"Whoever can shape the way that pipeline map looks will shape the future of a huge part of the world," said S. Frederick Starr, chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University. "The main feature of these states is their remoteness. Pipelines are the only way they can overcome their isolation. Transit fees are real money, and who gets that real money will go a long way toward determining which of these countries succeed and which don't."
Afghanistan's main hope lies with the huge gas reserves in neighboring Turkmenistan, which other Asian nations crave. Today, the only pipelines through which Turkmen gas and oil can be exported run to Russia. American companies have been seeking to build new lines from Turkmenistan to a port from which this wealth could be shipped to other markets.
The pipeline proposed several years ago by the Texas oil company Unocal would run across the breadth of Afghanistan to an outlet near the Pakistani port of Karachi; an extension might lead further south to India. Rob Sobhani, a Washington-based consultant who monitors Central Asian energy projects, calculates the cost of this project at $1.9 billion to $2.7 billion, up to $500 million of which would be spent in Afghanistan. Unocal was unable to build its pipeline because foreign banks and governments concluded they could not do business with the Taliban. With the Taliban now overthrown, the pipeline is again a real possibility.
THOSE who thought about this pipeline during the Taliban period were thinking about a pipe dream," said Ariel Cohen, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. "Today, provided these people can adapt themselves to new international realities, it's looking more feasible."
Those new realities include greatly strengthened American power in the region, a friendly but unstable regime in Afghanistan and the unreliability of local Afghan chieftans. Some oil executives say their companies might insist on managing an Afghan pipeline themselves, rather than letting Afghans do it, and on hiring a private security force to guard the line.
Such a pipeline could bring trouble as well as wealth. Since it would pass through much remote and mountainous terrain, regional warlords who believed they were not receiving a just share of the profits might be in a position to blackmail the government. Nor is it certain that wealth from transit fees would trickle down to the masses; precisely the opposite has happened in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, where corrupt elites have become rich while many live in misery. So a pipeline, which could bring more cash into Afghanistan than any other step short of legalizing opium, could just as easily promote destabilization and upheaval.
No American company has publicly expressed interest in the project, but Russians are among those convinced that planning has begun. When the United States lifted its economic sanctions on Afghanistan recently, the Moscow economic journal Rossiiskaya Biznes-Gazeta called the move "the first harbinger of U.S. companies' intentions to rejoin the trans-Afghan gas consortium."
Russia, seeking to preserve the profits it makes from distributing Central Asian oil and gas, might resist a pipeline across Afghanistan. So might Iran, which also wants routes that run across its territory. India would hardly be thrilled with any project that strengthens its archrival Pakistan, and given their hostility it is difficult to imagine those two countries agreeing to share the pipeline's benefits (although some suggest that a "peace pipeline" might actually become a basis for cooperation between them).
Pipeline politics may also influence the future foreign policy of the United States. American oil companies that spend billions of dollars on pipelines will expect the government to protect their investment. The United States has shown, notably in Kuwait, that it is ready to go to war to protect its access to foreign energy reserves.
As President Bush considers these issues, he has some experienced advisers close at hand. Zalmay Khalilzad, the Afghan-American he appointed as American envoy to Afghanistan, once advised Unocal on ways to build its pipeline there.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about oil pipelines in Central Asia misstated the location of Unocal, a company that proposed a line through Afghanistan several years ago. While it has some offices in Texas, it is based in California.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ancient Silk Road ran east-west through northern Afghanistan. A pipeline could run through the country's harsh north, above, down into Pakistan. (Agence France-Presse) Map: "Central Asian Pipelines: No Easy Way Out" Map of Eastern Europe and Mideast highlighting built and possible pipelines including a pipeline built by consortium led by BP and supported by U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); LOBBYING (69%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (76%) CASPIAN SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%) AFGHANISTAN; CASPIAN SEA

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



426 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Crime and Motherhood; 
Maternal Madness

BYLINE:  By ANNE TAYLOR FLEMING; Anne Taylor Fleming is an essayist on "The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer."

 BODY:
A NATIONAL gasp went up last week when Andrea Pia Yates was found guilty in a Texas courtroom of capital murder -- possible punishment: life behind bars or death by lethal injection. As it turned out, on Friday the jury opted for life in prison.
 But questions remained. What did the verdict say about the American system of justice, its system of values? Mrs. Yates had been described over and over during the trial as mentally ill, suffering from hallucinations, postpartum psychoses and suicidal tendencies (she had tried to kill herself twice). How could any mother after giving birth to those five babies seen on the haunting home videos do what she did: drown them systematically, one after the other -- any sane mother? 
 But was she sane? That was the question. In fact, that wasn't the question before the court. Under Texas law, the question was narrower: did she know right from wrong when she killed her children? On those grounds, the jury found her guilty despite her history of mental illness. What, in effect, happened in that courtroom is that while the defense tried to make the case about mental illness, the prosecutors made it about motherhood -- and motherhood trumped mental illness. 
"The children had become a hindrance, and she wanted them gone," said Kaylynn Williford, one of the lead prosecutors, conjuring the image of an overwhelmed stay-at-home mother unable to cope with the needs of a deeply religious, demanding husband and ever-growing brood. She was, in short, the ultimate maternal failure turned murderer, the demon mother writ large. She had to be punished -- severe mental instability notwithstanding. 
The flip side of this demonization of Mrs. Yates is the American sentimentalization of motherhood. It is seen as a sacred and sacrosanct sphere. The circle of mother and child is a Hallmark card place, where the selfless mother nurtures her young, no matter her dreams or ambitions, conflicts or terrors. Motherhood is seen through gauze, in soft, religiously inflected focus. Madonna and child. Through all that gauze, it's hard to see a mother like Mrs. Yates as she really is -- one of the desperate, destructive mothers nobody takes seriously until too late.
"To capture how deep this is in our culture -- this sentimentality about motherhood -- you have to go back to the 18th century," said Victoria Brown, a professor of American history at Grinnell College. "That's when there was a profound shift in Protestant literature from an image of woman as Eve to an image of woman as Mary. That is how she redeems herself from original sin, that is how she is valuable to the community -- as the self-sacrificing mother.
"And along comes the American Revolution. Women do not get the vote, they do not get full citizenship. They are defined as Republican mothers who will keep the nation together and insure democracy by being these selfless creatures at home, who raise virtuous citizens."
It seems apparent that Andrea and Rusty Yates bought into this vision big time -- a vision he apparently held fast to even as she fell ill, even when she became pregnant that fifth time against doctors' advice (for fear of sending her into another postpartum psychotic episode). He insisted on home-schooling the children, tightening that sacrosanct motherhood circle around his increasingly fragmented wife.
That was her historically and religiously ordained role, motherhood, and she would do it even at peril to her own sanity. If her anger at him or her angst over her role was part of her madness, we will probably never know. But no question, the prosecutor skillfully played up that motif of wifely anger and revenge.
But what of the rest, the people who stood by and watched her disappear into madness, those close enough to see beneath the gauze of motherhood? What could they, what should they, have done -- the relatives, friends and doctors -- all of whom say they knew she was unstable? They made stabs at helping, but not enough to avert tragedy.
"We don't have an ethic in this country that says it's suitable to interfere," said Professor Brown. "So it's not just the sentimentalization of motherhood that's at play here, it is the privatization of it."
Motherhood is a no-entry zone, a zone of privacy. That's apparent throughout the culture -- from a husband's refusal to heed the cry of a deranged wife to the state's reluctance to take children from mothers, however abusive or addicted. It goes beyond the hands-off, romantic cult of motherhood. Privacy -- and individualism -- are basic to our democratic, capitalistic system, where nonintervention in motherhood is the personal analog to nonintervention in the marketplace.
THE ultimate question the Yates case raises is this: Is there is a point where intervention should occur, where mothers at risk should be helped or children protected -- even from their mothers? Can't such tragedies be prevented?
After all, it's not that the public doesn't involve itself in motherhood at some level. There is always a chorus pushing and pulling at mothers, telling them how to do this or that, a lot of it from women themselves, as they try not to feel guilty about failing to live up to the myth.
The airwaves and bookshelves are full of didactic advice -- be it the hippie homeopathic insistence on natural childbirth or the pro-family brigade's insistence on the virtues of stay-at-home motherhood. The advice, though often contradictory, can end up at the same place: reinforcing the myth of the all-important mother who should be able to meet all her children's needs -- physical, psychological, emotional and economic -- without help or "interference" from anyone. The new importance of fathers has sometimes ameliorated this mother-centric view of parenting, but sometimes it has had the perverse effect of upping maternal guilt. Mothers are tough on themselves -- and each other.
And who was tougher on herself than Andrea Yates? That's why, she said, she tried first to kill herself and then killed her children -- to save them from her inept mothering. They were turning out wrong, going to the devil. There is a grisly, demented rationality in her irrationality, this overwhelmed, unbalanced mother who will now spend virtually the rest of her life in prison.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Yates family posed for this portrait in November 2000. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); SUICIDE (75%); TEEN SUICIDE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORY (72%); RELIGION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WOMEN 

PERSON: YATES, ANDREA; FLEMING, ANNE TAYLOR; YATES, RUSSELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



427 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
America's Problem With Modern Art

BYLINE:  By JACK HITT; Jack Hitt is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
OYEZ, oyez, oyez. Comes now the Jewish Museum in New York City with this season's high art controversy. 
 Here are the details: A younger generation of artists is featured in an exhibition titled "Mirroring Evil: Nazi Imagery/Recent Art." There's a Lego Concentration Camp Set presented like a commercially packaged toy; poison gas canisters done as Tiffany and Hermes gift boxes; busts of Josef Mengele in Gilded Age majesty; and Internet-ready totally nude girls inserted into pictures of Nazi camp guards. 
 Before anyone could even get to the question of the art, the fight broke out. You know the drill: On the one hand, free speech and those Philistines and they just don't get it; and then the art elites are shocked, shocked at all this attention over a simple art show! On the other hand, good taste and how offensive and whatever happened to beauty; and then the professionally pious are shocked, shocked that art would stoop so low! Arriving on the scene like ambulance chasers are politicians who use these culture wars to appeal to certain constituents. 
As an aesthetic argument, though, the controversies go back at least to Duchamp's "Nude Descending a Staircase." But the potential for cultural battle intensified once government financing started with the creation of the National Endowment for the Arts. In its contemporary American format, the fight probably dates to 1985 with the appearance (or disappearance, really) of Karen Finley's yam. In time the opposing sides would refine their positions around other appurtenances: Robert Mapplethorpe's bullwhip, Andres Serrano's urine, Terrence McNally's gay messiah and, more recently, Chris Ofili's dung. 
Why do artists and viewers have these fights? Why do artists continually come up with this stuff that seems so easy to dismiss as deliberately provocative shock art? And why is it that the same high-brow audience willing to wait in line half a day to see a Caravaggio exhibition or an Arthur Miller revival (former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is an opera buff) won't give contemporary art even a chance? It's typically fine art because this fight -- while occasionally breaking out over popular culture like movies ("The Last Temptation of Christ," "Dogma") -- is largely expressed in the more supercilious venues. For example, do you think those deeply offended by this show may have wandered across town to take in a matinee of "The Producers" and come out singing "Don't be stupid, be a smarty, come and join the Nazi Party"? Probably, and that paradox points to one possible reason. 
Americans have always held a deep antagonism for the pretensions of high art. Just ask the novelist Jonathan Franzen, who managed to locate that interstice between high and low only to find out it was a third rail. According to Neil Harris, the author of "The Artist in American Society," the founding generation equated high art, visual art in particular, with European decadence and corruption. Art's lack of utilitarian purpose seemed monstrous, especially for a people embarked on their first great effort at nation-building. They literally had no use for it.
In addition, Mr. Harris explains, the Puritans believed all art that lacked a moral lesson was suspect. He contends that Americans outgrew this view around the Civil War. Maybe not. 
Somehow, the visual arts have resisted the American democratic impulse to recreate Europe's loftiest traditions as vernacular entertainments. Here, the opera became the musical, and ballet the Ice Capades. The didactic sermons of Jonathan Edwards are now op-ed pieces. The high art tradition of cinema, mainly a French confection, survives in the ghetto of college film courses, having been overwhelmed by the popularity of Billy Wilders and Steven Spielbergs. 
Imagine Mr. Giuliani creating a censorship board to yank zoning privileges or end tax breaks for cinemas guilty of playing Hollywood movies. Not likely. But Mr. Giuliani seemed to have no problem lashing museum curators to the whipping post -- while citing the usual arguments. 
What explains the easy politics of it all? Could it be that once the government got involved in financing, the public assumed the role of modern Borgias and Pope Julians, making imperious demands on artists? That doesn't explain why the fight hasn't changed since Mapplethorpe. Rather, American culture has come to resemble an old couple whose relationship condemns them to repeat the same furious brittle arguments. 
Maybe a marriage counselor could help. John W. Ringwald, a counselor, said such rote arguments do have greater significance. "If it's a happy marriage, they may serve as a reminder to be considerate," he said. "If it's a bad marriage, then it's easier for either person, or both, to check out -- we're having Fight No. 34 -- and perhaps avoid an even deeper problem." 
A deeper problem? Question: How come the "Hogan's Heroes" generation still managed to figure out the true horror of the death camps? Are the angry people in this new fight truly offended? Or are they just trying to claim control over the narrative of the last century's most massive brutality? In Ron Rosenbaum's "Explaining Hitler," he recounts an amazing scene where the director of "Shoah," Claude Lanzmann, says that no one should discuss the quality of Hitler's evil because to describe an incomprehensibility is to belittle it. A survivor of Auschwitz tries to explain his view, but Mr. Lanzmann cuts him off, saying even survivors have no standing to make the case. 
In America's laissez-faire consumer culture, it's easy to get antsy about the lack of central control over who gets to tell stories. It may well be that the artists and viewers are picking at similar anxieties. American icons and the domain of the sacred have always been tied up with the profaneness of our economy (Presidents' Day sales, Christmas presents). Moreover, in a turbo-consumerist economy, all distress is bad for sales. So America's icons calcify into soothing monuments with simple slogans. Martin Luther King Jr., the Virgin, the gaunt survivor: "I have a dream," "Bless the children," "Never again." 
MR. Ofili's work in the "Sensation" exhibition depicted a Virgin festooned with dung. Of course the Virgin's earthy relationship to fertility filled late medieval and Renaissance art. The Prado in Madrid, for example, has a stunning Murillo, "La Vision de Bernardo." It shows the Virgin squeezing one of her exposed lactating breasts as a stream of projectile mother's milk arcs across the huge canvas into the saint's waiting mouth. 
The Virgin's earthier side -- as hallowed as any other part of her -- has long been repressed here in America. Perhaps, if Murillo's picture were to tour today, we might try to understand it, given the safety of its age. (Though probably not the attorney general, John Ashcroft, who literally carries around a blue security blanket to cover classical nude sculpture found in Washington.) In this light, Mr. Ofili's work is not revolutionary or offensive, but revealing for its nostalgia. 
And now we're looking at the Auschwitz Legos. The curator defended them as proof of the "potential to turn the building blocks of good into evil." Understandably, the museum's officials have retreated into banalities. They even have a companion show of traditional Holocaust work, by the Dachau survivor Zoran Music -- the artistic equivalent of a hedge fund. 
Much of "Mirroring Evil" is a visual version of that favorite history game: What If? Had the Nazis triumphed and a version of contemporary consumerism had merchandized their "stuff," might not it have been transformed in the disturbing ways this exhibition reveals? Have we done the same thing -- slowly flattened out the Holocaust's horror into something safely digestible? It's easy for politicians to denounce such work as deliberate provocation, but quick publicity is not why artists are examining notions of the sacred in America -- the body, the image of divinity, the memory of history. Variations of Auschwitz Legos lie all around, unnoticed until we get an elbow in the ribs. 
It's not fun to think that the public response to the Holocaust -- "never again" might more honestly be, "again and again": Armenians, Kurds, Cambodians, Tutsis, Croats. No, no. It's easier to recite the conventional refrains, and if by chance they get interrupted by some pesky outpost of art, it's easier still to cue Cultural Fight No. 34, and check out to the familiar strains of offended feelings, free speech and good taste.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Ofili's "The Holy Virgin Mary" (right), generated a storm of protest during the "Sensation" exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum in 1999, and now "Prada Deathcamp," by Tom Sachs, is one work among many that have caused a hue and cry about the new Jewish Museum show. (Brooklyn Museum of Art); (Librardo Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); MAYORS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%) ART; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; PUBLIC OPINION; JEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%) BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART; JEWISH MUSEUM (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) HITT, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



428 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
All Aboard, for a Leisurely Deathwatch Across Texas

BYLINE:  By ANDRES MARTINEZ 

DATELINE: ON THE SUNSET LIMITED, in Texas 

 BODY:
"It is quite a privilege to travel like this," says Sara Bendfords, a 28-year-old philosophy student at the University of Stockholm, as we sit in the Sunset Limited's lounge car, watching the pecan groves crawl past the window. Indeed it is.
 Never mind that the white-gloved service of rail's glory days is long gone. Rail travel in this country has never been as luxurious as it is today. The Sunset Limited, the nation's only coast-to-coast train, offers up the most sumptuous of offerings in this harried age: a total disregard for the constraints of time. The Sunset Limited takes three more hours to make its way from Los Angeles to New Orleans than it did a half-century ago, and that's on the 47 percent of trips when it arrives on time. 
 Most passengers don't mind. They seem to relish belonging, if only for the journey, to a renegade leisure class for whom schedules are a pesky nuisance best ignored. The crew has long given up, and blames Union Pacific, the railroad that owns the track and dispatches traffic, for the Sunset Limited's frequent delays.
Roy, our conductor, entertained me with a story about a woman who became hysterical over being late for a dental appointment she had arranged for two hours after the official arrival time in El Paso. "Have you ever heard of such a crazy thing, scheduling something on the day of your arrival?" he asked.
The Sunset Limited's ridership seems to hail from five disparate constituencies: vacationing families, young foreigners seeing America the way Americans have long seen Europe, those nervous about flying, travelers with disabilities, and rail buffs, whom crew members call "foamers." 
Gene Matranga, traveling with his family, last took the Sunset Limited a half-century ago, when he left his native Louisiana to become a NASA flight engineer in California. "I had heard terrible things about Amtrak," he said, "but our trip has been fabulous. I hope they don't kill it."
As if on cue, the train, which took 20 hours and averaged 40 miles an hour from El Paso to Houston, made one of its periodic mystery stops, this one outside Luling, Tex. The backyard swings seemed to be within our reach, and the messy porches spoke of an intimacy that Interstate highway travel cannot afford. The train is a trusted old visitor, for whom there is no need to tidy up. 
When Mr. Matranga's grandson asked why we had stopped, his father responded that it was probably to make way for a freight train. "Those things that make money get priority," the boy was told. 
That neatly sums up Amtrak's quandary. The railroad is under a Congressional mandate to become self-sufficient by the end of this year, but it is losing record amounts of money, despite higher ridership levels. The long-haul trains carry only 18 percent of Amtrak passengers but account for 75 percent of the railroad's losses. The Sunset Limited is the most heavily subsidized train, at a rate of roughly $350 per traveler.
George Warrington, the railroad's beleaguered president who resigned two weeks ago, warned earlier in the year that most of Amtrak's national service would have to be scrapped this fall unless Congress provided Amtrak more money. Passengers are aware that the future of long-distance trains is in peril.
That knowledge punctured the overall sense of nonchalance and made the trip feel somewhat like an overnight vigil for a dying patient. On my bowlegged walks back and forth between my sleeping alcove and the lounge car, I overheard such snatches of conversation as "cutting our nation's arteries" and "nothing compared to what the government spends on aviation and highways." 
Crew members are concerned and bitter, but they agree with Amtrak critics that things cannot go on like this, that the country should commit sufficient resources to rail, or let it die. Amtrak has requested $1.2 billion for the next fiscal year, which would do neither.
"You'd think the whole country was going broke on account of Amtrak, the way they carry on in Washington," said R. P. Baker, second in command to the conductor. He also blames management for its emphasis on the Northeast corridor, where Amtrak's new Acela Express service has proved a major success.
"They spend billions up there building that 'bullet train' and buying the people fancy new teal-and-gray uniforms because the politicians are all up there, while we get starved out here," he said, oblivious to the fact that the Sunset Limited was meandering at that moment through the most politically supercharged state in the country.
Notwithstanding his frustration, the case for spending tens of billions of dollars in coming decades to build relatively short high-speed rail links in the Northeast and other densely traveled markets across the country is compelling on economic grounds. The case for spending a lot less -- hundreds of millions a year -- to keep subsidizing trains like the Sunset Limited is a lot tougher to make.
It's all well and good to sit in New York and rationally conclude that Congress ought to stop considering long-distance rail service in the same category as more cost-effective short runs. But the enormity of what could actually happen this year -- that after a century and a half, these stringy passenger rail routes that have helped bind the country together could be erased -- struck me late at night in Alpine, Tex., a town lying on the Sunset Limited route, but 57 miles from the nearest Interstate.
Rick Kelly, an owner of a small car rental agency, is involved with the local Chamber of Commerce. A loyal Republican, he cannot understand why the United States is the only industrialized country that balks at subsidizing its passenger railroad. Mr. Kelly said the community cared deeply about its direct link to such faraway places as Los Angeles and New Orleans, even if few residents ever rode it. 
Indeed, looking back at the Superliner's imposing, ghostlike silhouette, I could only begin to fathom the train's significance to this town. I do not know the fear of isolation.
The building of the transcontinental railroad and the golden spike are central to the nation's story. Setting arguments about efficiency aside, it is difficult to imagine that we are ready to sunder these links. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAINS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); BUDGETS (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) RAILROADS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (57%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) 

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: MARTINEZ, ANDRES 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



429 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
The Rising Price of the Final Curtain

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Even as the cost of living rises, so too does the cost of dying. 
Funeral expenses are climbing, according to the National Funeral Directors Association. The average cost of a traditional funeral, adjusted for inflation, has risen 26 percent since 1991, to $6,130 last year.
 Traditional services are not always a family's first choice, however. Alternatives, like cremation, are increasingly used, and can save money. Lisa Carlson, executive director of Funeral Consumers Alliance, recommends that families plan ahead and try to focus the event on what made their loved one unique. "People aren't likely to remember the casket, but they are likely to remember the personal stories." she said. KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

GRAPHIC: Graphs show RESTAURANT SALES (Year-over-year change), PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS (Weekly totals in thousands), NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS (Year-over-year change), ONLINE SALES (Dollars in millions), and HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES (Four-week moving average, daily for Los Angeles, Chicago, New York) from Sept. 2001-March 2002. Graph shows FOOD PRICES (Monthly change in consumer index) from January 2001. (Sources: National Funeral Directors Asoociation funeral costs ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; ComScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNERAL INDUSTRY (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%) FUNERALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FUNERAL DIRECTORS ASSOCIATION (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (66%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



430 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Company Stock in 401(k)'s 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Sweetening Pensions at a Cost to Workers" (Economic View, Feb. 17), in which David Leonhardt discussed a new tax break for companies that match their employees' 401(k) savings with company stock rather than cash: 
 While politicians debate how to accessorize the emperor's wardrobe with 401(k) reforms, the column made plain that the emperor is stark naked. 
Investing in your company-managed 401(k) plan can be a lot like mating in captivity: better than nothing, but likely to produce a far worse result than you could with greater freedom of choice. 
Making private 401(k)'s the main tax-advantaged retirement savings vehicle steers Americans into under-diversification by welding a link between their job choice and their retirement savings choice -- the exact idea that financial experts routinely advise against.
Rather than continuing to paper over systemic flaws, we urgently need to create a totally employer-independent primary retirement savings system, or more washouts await us.

DUNCAN VAN DUSEN
Austin, Tex., Feb. 17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



431 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Amish Families' Home-Cooked Meals Come Under State Scrutiny 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: PARADISE, Pa., March 13 

 BODY:
Like wine cognoscenti, the more knowledgeable tourists journey here hungry for the ultimate in Pennsylvania Dutch authenticity: a savory home-cooked meal that some Amish families, overcoming traditional aloofness, have been quietly offering in their determination to survive economically on the farm.
 From oven-fresh bread to ham loaf, noodles and shoofly pie, the farmhouse repasts can eventually break through to honest conversation and discovery between outsiders and friendly hosts like Elam and Barbara Fisher. 
 "It takes a certain type of person willing to reach out to the public," Don Ranck, a farmer who is not Amish, said fondly of his friend Mr. Fisher. "He tells wonderful stories. Elam's an oral historian for his people, and he wants so much to do it. So why stop him?" 
The immediate answer is that with the occasional busload of tourists arriving for the farmhouse dining these days, the state authorities have served notice that this homespun, off-the-books commerce has grown serious enough to require tight health inspections and restaurant-type equipment.
This is the very sort of modern trapping shunned by the Old Order Amish who still journey local roads in the horse-and-buggy quaintness that draws tourists here in the first place.
The Fishers, one of the better-known Amish families serving visitors food, history and hymns, have already been confronted by the state and agreed to stop as officials question whether some tourists may be at risk of food poisoning. Friends and neighbors scoff at that, but the issue is not a simple one here in Lancaster County, which depends on a pristine reputation to continue attracting tourists.
The Pennsylvania Restaurant Association is backing the state, expressing "serious concern and opposition" that about two dozen Amish families are informally catering to tourists for a "donation" of $15 or less per diner. 
Even critics agree, however, that the Amish are models of spotless housekeeping. 
"I'd eat off the floor in an Amish house, they're so clean," said Dee Dee Meyer, a restaurant chef who offered home-cooked meals for 13 years as a member of the River Brethren. This is a sect of the Plain people, the collective term for the Amish, Mennonites and Brethren who live in different degrees of dedicated simplicity here in the Susquehanna Valley.
"But we should all play by the same rules," Ms. Meyer said. No longer with the Brethren, she turned to cooking for tourists in the modern kitchen of the Historic Strasburg Inn after her home-style operation became too complicated and competitive, she said, as more Old Order Amish families quietly entered the field.
"I outgrew my house," said Ms. Meyer, who drew 1,500 guests a year with a venturesome menu that included chicken pot pie and hog maw, a tangy meal of pig's stomach. 
She observed state restaurant standards, installing a commercial dishwasher and stainless steel work surfaces. She had liability insurance and underwent regular health inspections.
As delicate as the issue is, it is not quite prompting a full community debate. Political leaders want no hint of a possible food problem marring Lancaster's popularity. The Old Order Amish are standing as silent as ever.
"They basically want to be left alone," said Mr. Ranck, who is running for the State Legislature. An 11th-generation farmer who grew up among the Amish, Mr. Ranck has begun speaking in behalf of this group, which, he said, has never been organized politically.
"But they're survivors," he said of his Amish friends.
Their traditional ingenuity, Mr. Ranck hopes, will keep the shoofly pie coming for farmhouse visitors. The Amish routinely retool electrical appliances to run hydraulically and pneumatically, he noted, foreseeing some adaptation to satisfy state standards.
The State Bureau of Food Safety, while expressing sympathy for "the cultural sensitivity of this situation," has told the Amish that any place serving food to the public must be licensed and inspected. The state became concerned last summer after several members of a Mormon bus tour became sick in New York with E. coli and investigators discovered they had dined at the Fishers' farm a few days earlier.
No fault was firmly tracked to the Amish. But tourist officials, bus companies and the bed-and-breakfast proprietors who informally guide visitors to Amish farmhouses became concerned about liability and the county's reputation. The inspection law was invoked by the state, and the Fishers, facing a fine, agreed to desist.
"I think it's a shame," said John Stoltzfus, a former Amish who runs a carpet and music store down the road from the Fishers. "Elam's health is not good and this was a way for him to make a little money and survive. Having a meal with Elam is just a great way for outsiders to understand the Amish."
Mr. Ranck, who maintains a small bed-and-breakfast on his 118-acre farm, sees a way out of the problem. He said he knew of only three Amish farms catering to tourists by the busload, and thought these should certainly be subject to restaurant regulations.
"But the others serve smaller groups," he said, proposing that these Amish -- about 15 families feeding groups of a dozen or so, by his estimate -- should be subject to less intense bed-and-breakfast standards and take a recognized food preparation course. 
The bed-and-breakfast standards, Mr. Ranck said, basically require that well water be monitored and a separate hand-washing sink be installed in the kitchen.
"The Amish are increasing around here; more of their children are staying on the farms lately," Mr. Ranck said, estimating that there were perhaps 20,000 in this county of 450,000. "They're an asset. Some even say it's become chic to be Amish," he said, emphasizing that his friends needed to survive as a hospitable part of this area's bucolic image.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I'd eat off the floor in an Amish house," said Dee Dee Meyer, a restaurant chef in Pennsylvania. But Ms. Meyer said Amish families that serve meals to tourists should be subject to state health regulations. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); INSPECTIONS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); HISTORY (72%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (66%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (64%) AMISH; FOOD; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; RESTAURANTS; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



432 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines Drawn on Stock Options 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14 

 BODY:
American corporations are mobilizing to defend their stock options.
 The country's largest industry groups have formed the International Employee Stock Option Coalition to promote the benefits of options. Forty technology executives -- from Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and other companies -- departed from the original agenda of their meetings with cabinet secretaries and Congressional leaders earlier this month and spent most of the time talking about options. Lobbyists and executives are calling senators and their staff members and warning that changing the laws that cover options would damage economic growth. 
 The collapse of Enron and Global Crossing -- companies that generously handed out options to top executives, some of whom sold large amounts of stock before the businesses failed -- has reignited a debate about options. And those events have given life to a seemingly defeated effort to rewrite accounting rules and force companies to deduct from their profits the estimated cost of the options they give to employees. 
But in recent weeks, with Enron officials no longer appearing before Congress daily, executives have become more aggressive about making a case that stock options have been an important part of the economic success of the United States over the last decade.
Options give their holders the right to buy shares in the future at a specific price, typically at the price of the stock when the option was granted. If share prices rise above the exercise price, an executive can use the options to buy the stock and sell the shares immediately, pocketing the difference, which can be substantial. Unlike other forms of pay, however, options do not appear as an expense on a company's income statement. A change like the proposed law could reduce corporate earnings, over all, by almost 10 percent, analysts say.
A bipartisan group of five senators has proposed a bill that would effectively force the change, and an international accounting oversight group is also considering a rule to require a charge. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, publicly supported the idea this month.
"The level of concern is very high," said Caroline Graves Hurley, director of tax policy at AeA, a trade group for technology companies like Intel, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems. "There are lots and lots and lots of meetings going on." A Congressional aide who insisted on anonymity added, "The high-tech community is going ballistic."
It has reason to worry. At Cisco, for example, options would have reduced operating earnings by 40 percent in 2000 if the proposed change had been in place, according to the investment firm Bear, Stearns. The decline would have been 32 percent at Lucent Technologies and 14 percent at WorldCom. Global Crossing's $1.4 billion loss would have grown to $1.9 billion. In a two-pronged attack, corporate lobbyists are emphasizing the benefits of options and arguing that the proposed changes would hurt rank-and-file workers while increasing corporate taxes.
Analysts say the criticism -- from a broad coalition that includes the the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Retail Federation -- has helped shift the debate and has created an uphill fight for the Senate bill. The efforts of accounting regulators are seen to have better, though uncertain, odds.
"This is about executives' personal paychecks, so they'll pull out all the stops," said Sarah A. B. Teslik, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, an organization of pension funds and other investing institutions whose leaders support the bill. Ms. Teslik added that recent lobbying has not swayed the council's support for an accounting change.
The core of the executives' arguments is that options awards have become far more widespread in recent years, giving employees an incentive to make their companies more profitable.
"Stock options bind employees' interests with shareholders' interests," said Tom St. Dennis, chief executive of Wind River Systems, a software maker based in Alameda, Calif., that gives options to all of its 1,800 employees. "The opportunity for people to realize a reward is a strong incentive for companies to take risks and innovate."
If companies had to take a charge to earnings for the awards, many employers would decide that giving options to their workers was too expensive, the executives say. The executives themselves, who have more bargaining power, would be less affected, they say.
About 1.7 percent of the nation's workers received stock options in 1999, according to a Bureau of Labor Statistics study. Industry officials dispute the study's findings, saying the number is higher.
With some exceptions, top executives are not making their case publicly, to avoid creating the impression that their chief concern is their own multimillion-dollar pay packages, their lobbyists say.
Enron's demise helped put the issue in the spotlight because the company paid many managers largely through stock options, which helped earnings by having no reported cost. Enron then received tax deductions, similar to the credits companies get for paying cash salaries, when its employees exercised their options, helping the company avoid paying income tax four of the last five years.
The Senate bill would limit the tax deductions that companies can take to the amount of money they estimate options cost. Companies that continued to report that options had no cost would not be eligible for deductions.
"There's a double standard here," said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who sponsored the bill with Senators Mark Dayton, Democrat of Minnesota; Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois; Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois; and John McCain, Republican of Arizona. "Options are a form of compensation, and they should be treated like every other form of compensation," Mr. Levin said.
Corporate lobbyists argue that options, unlike salary, require companies to spend no cash and, therefore, should not be subtracted from profits. When converted into stock, options dilute the stake of existing shareholders. Typically, when companies issue a new share of stock, they receive all of the sale price, except for underwriting expenses, but with an option, they forfeit much of the value of the share to its owner. Corporate lobbyists say that investors can take the dilution into account because companies publish the number of options outstanding.
In addition, company officials are telling policy makers that the Senate bill would either destroy the earnings of successful companies or effectively raise their taxes. If a company waited to take a charge against earnings until after employees exercised their options, the charge could become enormous if the stock had appreciated rapidly.
If companies instead used a common formula to estimate the value of the options when they granted them, as they do now in a footnote to their proxy filings, they would be limited to a tax deduction the same size as the estimate. For companies with fast-growing stock prices, the value of options at exercise would exceed the original estimate. But the companies' deduction would be capped at the amount of the estimate.
"We need to recognize the result is that we're raising taxes," said Ken Glueck, vice president for government affairs at Oracle. "I'm happy to have that debate."
Both sides expect Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, to hold a hearing on the bill in coming weeks. Mr. Baucus is inclined to oppose the measure, but thinks lawmakers should consider whether options should be counted against earnings, Michael Siegel, a spokesman for the committee, said.
The International Accounting Standards Board, based in London, plans this year to consider ways to estimate the cost of options. Its members generally agree that the current practice is not adequate.
"The board is pretty clear it's an expense," said Sir David Tweedie, the board's chairman.
The international board does not have jurisdiction over American companies. If it made a change, however, the Financial Accounting Standards Board in the United States would be more likely to attempt a similar one.
When the American board raised the issue in the mid-1990's, the Senate effectively forced it to back down, after intense lobbying from businesses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (95%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION COALITION 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



433 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Europe Agrees To Open Up Its Markets For Energy 

BYLINE:  By EMMA DALY 

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain, March 16 

 BODY:
European Union leaders ended a two-day meeting today in Barcelona with an agreement to increase competition in energy markets and press ahead with economic reforms. The goal is to overtake the United States and make Europe the most dynamic economy in the world by 2010.
 The summit meeting, which was heavily policed for fear of protests, also approved the creation of Galileo, a European satellite network to rival the United States' Global Positioning System. 
 An estimated quarter million antiglobalization protestors marched goodhumoredly through the city's center during the afternoon, behind a pink banner that declared: "Against the Europe of capital and war. Another world is possible." 
But the march turned nasty at nightfall, when police officers charged a small group of violent demonstrators, firing rubber bullets to disperse the march. A police spokeswoman said 50 people had been arrested and more than 20 people hurt. 
The host, Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, hailed the agreement to open up energy markets for nondomestic consumers, a compromise reached because of French opposition to complete liberalization of the sector in an election year.
"This is an excellent opportunity for economic growth," said Romano Prodi, president of the European Commission. 
President Jacques Chirac of France, who is running for re-election against his prime minister, Lionel Jospin, said his country had received guarantees to protect traditional public services from full market competition. But Mr. Prodi said an agreement to look at the issue of public services in 2003 was "not any sort of handout to France."
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who was criticized by British unions close to his Labor Party for his enthusiastic support of American-style reforms, said the summit meeting, which was supposed to push forward changes begun two years ago in Lisbon, had produced "limited but solid achievements." 
A draft document approved by the 15 member states noted that progress since Lisbon "has been too slow" in some areas. This time, the leaders also agreed to changes aimed at consolidating a single market in financial services by 2005 and creating a more flexible job market. 
"The process of economic and social reform is irreversible, and that is good news for all our countries," Mr. Aznar said. "We want to create more than 20 million jobs this decade." He also said the European Union had agreed to increase spending on research and development to 3 percent of gross domestic product, two-thirds of that to come from the private sector.
The approval of the Galileo satellite system, which would cost 3.6 billion euros, or about $3.2 billion, was unexpected. The vote came despite concerns that it was an expensive and unnecessary replication of the United States satellite system. But the European Union has decided it cannot afford to rely on foreign technology, and ministers meeting next week will determine how to carry out construction and financing. 
The leaders reiterated their criticism of the Bush administration's decision to impose tariffs on imported steel but said they would respond through the World Trade Organization.
The Europeans skirted the issue of a possible United States attack on Iraq, despite efforts by Mr. Blair to garner support for the American position. They also condemned the elections in Zimbabwe and suggested "possible additional targeted measures" against President Robert Mugabe's government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (76%); EURO (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); ARRESTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%); EMPLOYMENT (61%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM; GALILEO (SATELLITE SYSTEM); SPACE; NAVIGATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (52%); ROMANO PRODI (52%); JACQUES CHIRAC (51%) DALY, EMMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (90%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (88%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



434 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Many Doctors Shun Patients With Medicare 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16 

 BODY:
For the first time, significant numbers of doctors are refusing to take new Medicare patients, saying the government now pays them too little to cover the costs of caring for the elderly.
 Medicare cut payments to doctors by 5.4 percent this year. The government estimates that under current law, the fees paid for each medical service will be reduced in each of the next three years, for a total decrease of 17 percent from 2002 to 2005. 
 For years, doctors have expressed frustration with Medicare, grumbling about reimbursement and complex federal regulations. But the latest reaction appears to be different. Doctors are acting on their concerns, in ways that could reduce access to care for patients who need it. 
For example, some doctors are purposely limiting the number of their Medicare patients. The American Academy of Family Physicians says that 17 percent of family doctors are not taking new Medicare patients.
Mark H. Krotowski, 54, a family doctor in a working-class neighborhood of Brooklyn, said: "My expenses go up and up and up every year. For the government to lower what it pays me when my expenses are rising -- that doesn't make sense. It's an insult."
Dr. Krotowski said that about 25 percent of his current patients were on Medicare, but that he was not taking any new Medicare patients.
"I love my elderly patients," Dr. Krotowski said. "But they are very sick. They need a lot of attention, a lot of medications and a lot of time. Medicare reimbursement has not kept up with inflation or the cost of providing care to the elderly."
The government is continually struggling to control Medicare costs. Total Medicare spending rose 24 percent in the last five years, to $238 billion in 2001, and the Congressional Budget Office predicts that it will grow faster in the next five years, to $310 billion in 2006. 
Spending for doctors' services accounted for nearly $41 billion of last year's total.
Dr. Baretta R. Casey, 48, a family physician in rural Pikeville, Ky., near Ashland, did exactly what the government encouraged doctors to do, setting up practice in an area where doctors were in short supply.
"For the last five years," Dr. Casey said, "I've watched my income go down and my expenses go up. About 60 percent of my practice is Medicare patients. I decided not to take any more Medicare patients in January, when the reimbursement rate was cut."
Dr. Casey, like many doctors, said the impact of the cut was magnified because many private insurers link their payments to the amounts paid by Medicare.
Health policy experts said the cuts could make it more difficult for elderly people to find doctors just as the need increases with the aging of the population. Medicare covers 40 million people, and the number of beneficiaries is expected to double by 2030. Scores of lawmakers have endorsed legislation to increase Medicare payments to doctors, but the outlook for the legislation is unclear. Other health care providers like hospitals, nursing homes and health maintenance organizations -- are also demanding more money.
Though Medicare can barely afford all the benefits promised under current law, Congress is seriously considering expansion of the program to add prescription drug benefits. The Bush administration says that any increases in payments to some providers must be offset by cuts in payments to others. Moreover, it says, any new money should go to Medicare beneficiaries, for drug benefits, or to the uninsured, in tax credits to buy private insurance.
Dr. Paul E. Buehrens, 50, medical director of a clinic with 22 doctors in Kirkland, Wash., near Seattle, has taken specialized training in geriatrics and was medical director of a nursing home for more than 10 years. But he said the group no longer took new Medicare patients, because the financial losses were unsustainable.
Medicare pays his group an average of $60 for an office visit, he said, but the costs average $ 100: about $70 for rent, utilities, malpractice insurance and salaries and benefits for the staff, plus $30 for the doctor.
Dr. Buehrens said he continued to treat his "established patients" -- those already on Medicare and those who turn 65 while under his care. But, he said, it is painful to inform other people who ask him to be their doctor that "we have closed our practice to new Medicare and new Medicaid patients."
At current payment rates, he said, "Medicare is almost charity care."
Medicaid, which provides care for poor people, usually pays less than Medicare. Many doctors refuse to participate in Medicaid. In some poor urban and rural areas, Medicaid recipients have trouble finding doctors.
Many H.M.O.'s have left Medicare or curtailed their participation, dropping 2.2 million patients in the last four years, after concluding that the federal payments were inadequate. 
Martha A. McSteen, president of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, an advocacy group for the elderly, said, "Many of our members across the country have told us that they are having difficulty finding a physician who accepts Medicare."
Medicare patients sometimes seek care at doctor-training programs like one affiliated with the University of Colorado in Fort Collins.
"Colorado advertises itself as a great place for seniors to live," said Dr. Austin G. Bailey, director of the family medicine residency program in Fort Collins. "But it's a difficult place for seniors to find family physicians or general internists. When Medicare patients come to us, they often tell us they've called 15 to 18 doctors' offices in an unsuccessful effort to get appointments."
Dr. Stephen C. Albrecht, 46, who practices with three other doctors in Olympia, Wash., said he stopped taking new Medicare patients about six months ago.
"It impedes the economic viability of my practice to have a large Medicare population," Dr. Albrecht said. "When you own and run a small business, you have to make sure it's economically viable."
Dr. Michael J. Marcello, a family doctor in Mathews, La., 40 miles from New Orleans, said he had decided not to accept new Medicare patients starting in January, when Medicare payments were cut 5.4 percent.
"Our instinct would be to offer services, but it's just not fiscally justifiable," Dr. Marcello said. "There's no evidence of any reduction in the cost of living, utilities or supplies. Malpractice insurance premiums are not being reduced 5.4 percent."
In fact, many doctors report that malpractice premiums have shot up. The St. Paul Companies, one of the nation's largest commercial insurers, raised premiums an average of 27 percent last year. One reason, insurers say, is that they have had to pay out large sums for jury verdicts and settlements of lawsuits.
Dr. Samuel I. Fink, 44, of Los Angeles, a specialist in internal medicine, expressed the opinion of many doctors: "I fear for when I become a senior. It will be harder for seniors to find good care. Across the country, Medicare patients are becoming less and less desirable to physicians."
Dr. Deborah G. Haynes, 48, a family practitioner in Wichita, Kan., said her seven-doctor group decided three months ago not to take new Medicare patients. "We hated to do it," Dr. Haynes said, "but we have a responsibility to pay our staff."
Dr. Conrad L. Flick, 39, of Raleigh, N.C., said: "We don't take new Medicare patients. We want to, but as a business, we really can't afford to."
In the past, Dr. Flick said, "private insurers used to subsidize our Medicare practice," but they are no longer willing to do so. "Private insurers have cut back their reimbursement, so there's less opportunity to use those payments to cover the losses on Medicare patients," he said.
Dr. Abraham Rogozinski, 47, an orthopedic surgeon in Jacksonville, Fla., said he decided last year not to operate on Medicare patients or see them in his office. "It was not economically feasible to continue our participation in Medicare," he said.
In an interview, Dr. Rogozinski read a letter from a woman whose knee he replaced 10 years ago. The woman, now 68, needed her other knee replaced and wanted him to do it. "It breaks my heart, as a doctor and a healer, that I had to limit her access to me," he said. "These are the patients that I love to see the most. They bake you pound cakes for Christmas because they are so happy with the care you give them."
Dr. Robert L. Hogue, 51, president-elect of the Texas Academy of Family Physicians, said: "I have a hard and fast rule. I don't take any new Medicare patients. In fact, I don't take any new patients over the age of 60 because they will be on Medicare in the next five years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark H. Krotowski, 54, a family doctor in Brooklyn, is among doctors refusing new Medicare patients. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (97%); AGING (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); INSURANCE (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DOCTORS; AGED; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (56%)

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



435 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-25

Aiming for Mideast Truce, U.S. Envoy Meets Leaders
The American mediator, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, shuttled between Palestinian and Israeli leaders, reportedly seeking to bring the two sides together to prepare for a cease-fire. At one point, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's spokesmen suggested that a cease-fire was imminent, but Mr. Sharon later backtracked. 1

Warning Against Attacking Iraq
Vice President Dick Cheney arrived in Saudi Arabia, where he received a public warning from the Saudi leadership that the Bush administration should put aside any plans for a military campaign against Iraq. 16

Support for Diplomat's Arrest
The Yugoslav president, Vojislav Kostunica, defended the arrests of an American diplomat and a high government official for espionage. 4

New Phase in Milosevic Trial
The first Western politician testified at the United Nations war crimes tribunal at the Hague. Paddy Ashdown accused the former Yugoslav president of using "outrageous and excessive force" in Kosovo. 7

E.U. Economic Actions
In Barcelona, European Union leaders agreed to increase competition in energy markets, opening them to non-domestic consumers. The summit meeting was marred by protests in which 50 people were arrested. 23

NATIONAL 29-37

More Doctors Spurning Patients With Medicare
For the first time, significant numbers of doctors are refusing to take new Medicare patients, saying the government pays too little to cover the costs of caring for the elderly. 1

Church Roiled by Abuse Scandal
The sexual abuse scandal engulfing the Roman Catholic Church, far from being nearly over, has only begun. It has traumatized the faithful and even stirred questions about celibacy rules for priests. 1

New Billy Graham Apology
As anger against the Rev. Billy Graham persisted among Jewish groups, he again apologized for making anti-Jewish comments to President Richard M. Nixon in 1972. 29

Farm Program May End
The administration has moved to cut a program that gives low-income people vouchers for use at farmers markets. 32

The Business of Nonprofits
Nonprofit organizations are increasingly turning to commercial activities to raise money, raising questions about their tax status. 32

In Defense of Stock Options
After the collapse of Enron and Global Crossing, American corporations are mobilizing a defense of stock-option benefits. 34

NATION CHALLENGED 18-21

Afghanistan Documents: Life in Bin Laden's Army
Documents collected from abandoned Taliban and Al Qaeda safe houses and training camps in Afghanistan show that the camps, which the Bush administration has described as factories churning out terrorists, were instead focused largely on supporting the Taliban, which was waging a long ground war against the Northern Alliance. 1

Cleaning Up After Battle
The aftermath of an 11-day battle above the Shah-i-Kot valley in eastern Afghanistan continued to pose vexing questions for American commanders. A force of 700 American and Canadian troops continued to search for bodies, but an American officer heading the operation said that fewer than 20 had been found. 20

Naval Force Expanded
The United States and its allies have intensified their search for Taliban and Qaeda leaders in the waters off Pakistan and Iran. 20

OBITUARIES 44-45

NEW YORK/REGION 39-43

Cleanup Is Nearing Completion At Trade Center Site
The once monstrous task of debris removal and body recovery has come down to a hill or two of debris to remove and dirt to comb. 1

Chess 44
Weather 46
Cong. Vote 40

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); SCANDALS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POOR POPULATION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); ESPIONAGE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); WAR CRIMES (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (61%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SPAIN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



436 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Sinful Tax?

BYLINE:  By TOM ZELLER 

 BODY:
 The unusual stress of the past six months notwithstanding, it seems a bad time to be a smoker in New York. Both the city and the state plan to raise their taxes to $1.50 per pack -- up from 8 cents for the city and $1.11 for the state. 
Needless to say, the major tobacco companies -- essentially an oligopoly of four that is already bleeding cash into a lawsuit settlement that some consider a tax -- are opposed to any increases. R. J. Reynolds, for instance, complains on its Web site that cigarettes are one of the most heavily taxed consumer products in the United States.They're right. Federal, state and local governments all get a bite. But over all, taxes aren't what they used to be, and for those trying to quit, higher prices might just be the nudge they need. TOM ZELLER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE PLAYERS"Roughly 99 percent of the cigarette market in the United States is controlled by just four companies. Lorrilard: 9%Brown & Williamson: 16%R. J. Reynolds: 25%Phillip Morris: 49% Note: Brands shown are not the only ones manufactured by each company. TAXES DO ADD UP: THE NEW YORK CITY EXAMPLENew taxes will push the cost of a pack of cigarettes in Manhattan from a little more than $5 to roughly $7 -- or about 35 cents per cigarette. Where the money would go: Federal excise tax: 2 centsN.Y. State excise tax: 7 centsNew N.Y.C. excise tax: 7 centsSales tax: 3 centsEverything else, including company profits, markups due to lawsuits, retail markups, and other increases: 16 cents WIDE VARIATIONSeven states now charge more than $1 per pack in taxes, but nearly half the states charge just 33 cents or less. The lowest: Virginia, at 2.5 cents per pack. THE OVERALL TAX SHARE IS DIMINISHINGNationally, the share of the price of cigarettes that goes into federal and state coffers has actually declined over the last four decades. Graph tracks the average combined federal and state tax share of the retail price of a pack of cigarettes from 1960 to 2000. AND HIGHER COSTS HELP KICK THE HABITThe addiction factor makes the tobacco market more stable than most during price changes, but when the prices go up, cigarette consumption does go down. Graph tracks cigarette consumption, measured in billions of packs, and avg. retail price per pack from 1960 to 2000.(Sources: United States Centers for Disease Control; Tobacco at the Crossroads by Jonathan Gruber, Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 15, No. 2; Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids; U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms) Map of United States shows tax per pack for each state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SALES TAX (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CARTELS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (54%); LITIGATION (54%); WEB SITES (53%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SALES TAX; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: ZELLER, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



437 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: ON WRITERS AND WRITING; 
The Sideshow Must Go On

BYLINE:  By Margo Jefferson

 BODY:
Why does the common reader pick up a scholarly book? We all have our scholar-fan passions: military history; this or that ancient civilization; Monk, Messaien or Monteverdi. Still, life is short and these books are often long. Why take a chance outside of your chosen limits? 
 Passionate scholarship lets you surprise yourself. Which is what happened to me when I picked up "Sideshow U.S.A.: Freaks and the American Cultural Imagination," by Rachel Adams. Why not, I thought? And I was hooked, back in the 19th century with all those suckers born every minute who crowded into P. T. Barnum's American Museum. They could watch Tom Thumb and his midget bride, Lavinia Warren. They could go to the "What Is It?" cage and study William Henry Johnson, a black man passing as part human, part orangutan. (The ad read, "It is beyond dispute THE MOST MARVELOUS CREATURE LIVING.") 
 The more intellectually inclined could go to the University of California's Hearst Museum and shake hands with Ishi, believed to be the sole surviving member of the American Indian Yahi tribe. He let anthropologists study his language, did janitorial work and in 1911 attended a vaudeville show with a journalist determined to introduce the "uncontaminated man" to "the silvery-voiced and fascinating Orpheum headliner, Lily Lena of the London music halls." Ishi's face, the writer claimed, was drawn. "His fingers . . . trembled visibly, and his first cigar, which he had been puffing with pretended sangfroid, now slowly grew cold and dropped from his teeth." There's a phallic symbol born every minute too. 
Freaks violated whatever historical, racial, physical or social norms prevailed at a given time. A man with no arms and no legs qualified, but in the 19th century so did a man with tattoos. There were Chang and Eng, the Siamese twins, and their Anglo-Saxon equivalents, the Hilton sisters. But an ordinary woman with exceptionally long hair could also do. Turning some kind of freakishness into a performance -- a job, not a condition -- was how a lot of otherwise unemployable people made their livings. (It strikes me that a lot of the acts that freaks used to put on have been taken over now by everyday people on reality television shows, who eat cockroaches, cover themselves with garbage and so on.)
Adams divides her book into three "acts," as traditional sideshows did. Act I: the old order of the 19th and early 20th centuries, when freak shows gave people thrills and reassurance. Many who crowded the fairs and circuses were immigrants and poor working people, whom respectable society deemed less than normal. To watch "deviants" perform was to feel superior. Or was it? As Adams writes: "The figures of the half man-half woman, the dog-faced boy, or conjoined twins confront us with their refusal of the apparently primal distinctions between man and woman, human and animal, self and other."
Act I ends with the only film that recreated a sideshow using professional freaks, Tod Browning's notorious and mesmerizing "Freaks" (1932). The whole idea was unsettling. When F. Scott Fitzgerald found himself sharing a lunch table at the MGM commissary with the conjoined Hilton sisters, he ran outside and threw up. 
By the postwar years of Act II the real thing -- sweltering heat, the smells of popcorn and animal dung, abusive exchanges between carnies, freaks and customers" -- was disappearing. So metaphor stepped in. Artists turned the freak into a double -- the alienated self with unacceptable desires. Hippies and Yippies transformed the freak into a badge of counterculture identity.
Do you remember what you felt when you first saw Diane Arbus's art photographs of freaks? "A Young Man in Curlers," "A Jewish Giant at Home With His Parents"? Were you excited? Embarrassed? Relieved that since these were pictures, you could just go on staring? And if you haven't read (or reread ) Carson McCullers's "Member of the Wedding" (1946) it's worth doing. McCullers has been called sentimental, too eager to flaunt the desolate oddness of Southern homosexuals, blacks and young people. Her lyricism can be flagrant. But what Southern writer isn't flagrant about something? And she is acrid too; each scene is alive with the small pungent details that turn myths back into lives. 
A real scholar sets your own associations loose. Reading Adams on McCullers -- and her readings are layered, not a bit sentimental -- sent me back to "The Circus," a story by Katherine Anne Porter. There, in miniature, are the elements McCullers would use to her own ends in "Wedding." Miranda, a little girl who's been frightened by a clown on a high wire, has to be hustled out of the circus by Dicey, the black housekeeper. A dwarf stands at the tent entrance. 
Porter writes: "Miranda almost touched him before she saw him, her distorted face with its open mouth and glistening tears almost level with his. He leaned forward and peered at her with kind, not-human golden eyes, like a nearsighted dog: then made a horrid grimace at her, imitating her own face. Miranda struck at him in sheer ill temper, screaming. Dicey drew her away quickly, but not before Miranda had seen in his face, suddenly, a look of haughty, remote displeasure, a true grown-up look. She knew it well. It chilled her with a new kind of fear: she had not believed he was really human." I'd never fully linked the dwarf's confined anger to Dicey's. She's furious at leaving, she fusses under her breath. But in the end she must lie down with Miranda and say "in her usual warm being-good voice: 'Now you jes shut yo eyes and go to sleep. I ain't going to leave you. Dicey ain't mad at nobody. . . . nobody in the whole worl.' " 
Act III brings us to the here and now, when phantasmic biology dominates our fiction: in Toni Morrison's "Beloved," the ex-slaves must expel freaks created by (and for) slavery; in Katherine Dunn's "Geek Love," freaks breed dynasties with the arrogance of aristocrats. But intellectual theory has also infiltrated performance. Freak shows are having a renaissance: cultural criticism is part of the act; so are political satire, cross-dressing and bawdy sex games. The Bearded Lady is a lesbian who knows exactly what gender gauntlet she is throwing down. 
It seems clear that every age needs its own freaks, a new "them" to be declared immutably different from some hard-won "us." Thanks to cloning and artificial insemination, I suspect some people are studying apparently "normal" animals and children with growing anxiety, looking for signs of difference, sure that some mark of essential freakishness will erupt. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); JOURNALISM (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



438 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: One Is Born Every Minute 

BYLINE:  By Hugo Lindgren; Hugo Lindgren is an editor at The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
 DOT.CON
The Greatest Story Ever Sold.
By John Cassidy.
372 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $25.95.
 It can be a jolt, flipping channels in the morning, to come across the still bubbly, youthful countenance of Maria Bartiromo. The financial markets may go up and down, but they never go away, and she and the CNBC crew behave as if the world remains enamored of it all. They seem almost like time travelers, visitors from that fleeting era when something called the Nasdaq occupied the center of American culture.
You remember the Nasdaq, don't you?
If you don't, help is here in the form of this book, the first all-in-one-place dot-com history. The author is John Cassidy, a financial writer for The New Yorker, and in hurrying "Dot.Con" to market he is evidently subscribing to a theory that doomed a good number of dot-coms. This would be the so-called first-mover theory. Those companies first to establish dominance in a given category, be it toys, pets or petunias, are the "winners" -- no matter how many hundreds of millions of dollars were lost along the way.
So Cassidy stakes his claim to the "dot-com history" category, and in certain subsectors of this market he succeeds quite nicely. It takes a while, however, to get to these parts. First we must endure a numbingly rote retelling of the early dot-com days. If you were alive during this period, read the papers or flashed past CNBC, you either know much of this material already or you willfully ignored it. Either way, it's not likely to be of pressing interest now.
Even Cassidy seems lacking in spirit as he trudges through these passages. We are there, again, for the birth of Yahoo!, Amazon and America Online. We are treated to the inevitable paragraph about tulipmania in the Netherlands. We relive the scrambling of old media giants like Time Inc. to gain traction in new media. And then we get the analysis. "The Internet stock mania during the late 1990's was like the frenzy on the dance floor at the end of a wedding party," Cassidy writes in one of his more energetic flourishes. "The disc jockey may have prompted the excitement by playing a popular tune, but the real reason that people were singing at the tops of their lungs and waving their hands above their heads was that the free bar had been open all day."
These sections of the book fail not only because the terrain has been thoroughly mined by other journalists but because Cassidy relies so heavily on the published work of these other journalists to tell the story. He did an awful lot of reading for this book; he ought to have done more reporting. One suspects that Jeff Bezos, given all that has happened, might have welcomed the opportunity to reveal a thing or two that we haven't heard before about why he did what he did in the hallucinatory grip of dot-com fever. Of course, you'd never know unless you asked, and it appears that Cassidy didn't ask.
Cassidy doesn't really start operating on his own steam until he gets to Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. This is the strongest section in the book, less for the reporting than for the insight that Cassidy brings to it. Though Greenspan's reputation has been taken down a few pegs since his late-90's heyday, he remains an almost saintly figure. Cassidy takes him in for a drubbing, arguing that he's much more of a free market ideologue than is commonly believed. 
Specifically, Cassidy knocks Greenspan for failing to contain the rocketing stock market when he had the chance. That moment came in mid-1998 -- the market had been soaring, but investors had yet to go completely out of their minds. A boost of the interest rate would have been just the thing to preserve the country's financial sanity. Instead, when the Asian economies went into a tailspin, Greenspan got spooked by the idea of a global recession. So rates stayed where they were. Later in the year, Long Term Capital Management, a Connecticut hedge fund overseen by men thought to be the sharpest financial minds of their generation, imploded, putting investments worth billions in jeopardy. Greenspan dutifully calmed a jittery Wall Street by slicing the prime rate. And that's when the true madness kicked in.
Cassidy doesn't make Greenspan out to be a total villain -- he didn't even get rich, after all -- but everybody else, by comparison, gets off relatively lightly. For the most part, Cassidy refuses to have fun at the expense of the flimflam artists and rank profiteers who peopled the boom. He pays the ultimate compliment to characters like James Cramer, founder of TheStreet.com -- he takes them seriously.
There's a reason for this. Cassidy's book is actually mistitled. According to his account, there was no conspiracy behind the dot-com boom. If there was crooked accounting -- and it's hard to imagine some dot-coms didn't indulge in a bit of Enron-like book-cooking -- you won't read about it here. Cassidy prefers to understand the boom as the product of something ordinary: the individual pursuit, by millions of Americans, of their own self-interest.
According to Cassidy, even the Wall Street bankers who made fortunes were guilty of little more than doing what everybody else was doing. The author is especially generous to Mary Meeker, the stock analyst at Morgan Stanley who, among other things, hyped Priceline, a tiny company that sells discount plane tickets and was briefly worth more than several major American airlines combined. Meeker was among the first to argue that technology companies necessitated new, highly optimistic valuation methods, an insight that made her a celebrity.
In Cassidy's portrait, Meeker was a discerning analyst whose judgment, over the course of the boom, became distorted by the madness around her. In an environment in which people got rich by behaving stupidly, being smart was a liability. Meeker's job was to make money for Morgan Stanley, and that's what she did. If she hadn't, Cassidy suggests, someone else would have gladly taken her place.
Unfortunately, Cassidy ends up closing the book in much the same way he opens it -- with a forced march through yesterday's business pages. He reminds us about forgettable moments like the collapse of Pets.com and all the various days on which the market rallied and dipped and died. Like a lot of dot-coms, Cassidy started out with a potentially winning concept. But he made a critical error when he attempted to make his book a "category killer," an epic tale that would render all competing dot-com tales obsolete. There are just too many elements of the sprawling history about which he has little new or profitable to add. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A review of "Dot.Con: The Greatest Story Ever Sold," on Page 14 of the Book Review today, refers erroneously to action taken in 1998 by the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Alan Greenspan, to lower interest rates. The Fed lowered the federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks; it did not lower the prime rate, which it does not control, though that rate normally follows the target rate closely. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: TIME INC (63%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); AOL INC (53%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (57%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



439 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Groups Reach For Profits on the Side 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
In its last fiscal year, the Metropolitan Museum of Art's shops, restaurants, parking garages and other commercial endeavors produced $96.6 million in revenues, or almost three times as much as its next largest source of income, admissions and membership fees. 
 The Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. derives a quarter of its annual operating revenue from the sale of uniforms, its second-largest source of income after membership dues, which cover 41 percent of its budget. 
 Tickle Me Elmo, a popular toy from a few Christmases back, still generates a handsome licensing fee for the Children's Television Workshop, while Harvard University earned almost $4 billion from the sale of stocks in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2000. 
Like many other nonprofit groups, these four organizations make a lot of money from commercial activities that look just like the businesses of profit-making enterprises. The Met's parking garage, for instance, is just like any other parking garage in the neighborhood, but with one big difference: the museum pays no taxes on its income from the garage because having a garage is considered important to its mission. So the parking money is tax-exempt, like the rest of the Met's income. 
Few would condemn this entrepreneurial spirit. But even fewer understand how big -- and how fast-growing -- a source of income commercial activities have become in the nonprofit world. By one estimate, such activities make more than $60 billion a year for the nation's nonprofit institutions. Because nonprofit organizations pay no taxes on most of this income, taxpayers subsidize those activities.
"The question about all this is whether society is really getting back more in terms of the social mission it receives from a charity than the subsidies it is providing in the form of tax exemptions," said Burton A. Weisbrod, an economics professor at Northwestern University and editor of a book on the commercialization of the nonprofit sector, "To Profit or Not to Profit." 
"The answer to that question is a tough one because it is so hard to measure the achievements of nonprofits," Professor Weisbrod said.
Determining how much income nonprofit groups receive from activities outside fund-raising, donations and admissions and other user fees is difficult, but experts and regulators agree that the amount is increasing.
A study of almost 14,000 nonprofit organizations by the Chronicle of Philanthropy last fall offered the first comprehensive look at how important these ancillary activities have become for nonprofit institutions. The charities in the study generated at least $61 billion of tax-exempt revenue from business activities in 1998. 
Universities leverage tax-free research grants into lucrative licensing and royalty streams and stock-ownership positions in start-up companies. Public television stations broadcast advertising, and public radio stations build merchandising operations and sometimes acquire other radio stations or manage them for a fee. Nonprofit hospitals operate profit-making pharmacies and fitness centers. 
As long ago as 1950, Congress moved to tax such activities when businesses complained about competition from nonprofit organizations, but the law was weakened by exemptions added to the tax code. Challenges to the rules mounted in the 1980's, again from businesses, but the courts ruled in favor of nonprofit groups. 
The rule of thumb is that as long as a charity's commercial activities help promote or enhance its mission, they are tax-exempt. While it is hard to argue that admission fees or tickets to a special exhibit fall outside a nonprofit organization's mission, other activities sheltered from taxes seem less connected. 
Try, for instance, to link gambling to the mission of the North Dakota Association for the Disabled, a nonprofit group that helps physically, mentally or otherwise disabled people with services and centers. After deducting expenses, the association realized tax-free revenue of $1.25 million, or almost 60 percent of its budget in 2000, from gambling. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 exempted all revenue from games of chance conducted by North Dakota nonprofit groups. 
The revenues from the Met's parking garage, its most profitable venture, are tax-free because the museum has successfully argued that it operates for the convenience of patrons, even though they could use private parking lots.
"It may well be important for me as a patron to have someplace to eat, but I could go next door, couldn't I?" Professor Weisbrod asked. "You can ask the same question about parking. Commercial activities get nonprofit organizations involved in a variety of problems, one of which is obscuring the borders between their missions and their money-raising activities." 
Nonprofit groups are not alone in trying to shield income from taxes. "For-profits are famous for using overseas subsidiaries to protect income from taxes, and there are rules that allow them to do that," said Norman I. Silber, a law professor at Hofstra University who specializes in nonprofit issues. "Taxpayers are also subsidizing them." 
Nonprofit groups contend, and many experts agree, that they have had little choice but to take on more commercial activities to make money. "The major reason this has happened is because the government withdrew its funding for a wide variety of nonprofit organizations," said Dwight F. Burlingame, a professor of philanthropic studies at Indiana University's Center on Philanthropy. "Private giving has stayed pretty consistently at about 2 percent of people's income, so they clearly closed the gap by increasing commercial revenues." 
Nonprofit groups do pay taxes on commercial activities that are not linked to their missions, although very few. The 10,000 charities in an Internal Revenue Service study in 1997 paid a total of $103 million in unrelated business taxes. 
Last year the Met paid roughly $1.5 million in taxes, in large part from its sales of coffee mugs bearing its "M" logo. Mugs are deemed a purely commercial venture, unlike scarves or jewelry, which are linked to the museum's mission as long as they are accompanied by a slip of paper explaining their connection to the collection. 
Often, business operations of nonprofit organizations mean the difference between operating consistently in the red and posting only occasional losses. The bulk of the American Red Cross's operating revenue comes not from contributions but from its blood processing and tissue distribution operations, for which the charity charges hospitals and other users. 
The Red Cross does not make much money on its blood and tissue business, which basically generates just enough to cover expenses. But in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2000, that business made the difference between operating in the red and covering all of the charity's costs.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER: Nonprofit Income"A breakdown of where American nonprofit organi-zations raise their money: 1980Government Support: 48%Private Giving -- includes individual donations and grants: 16Commercial Activities -- includes user fees: 36 1996Government Support: 36%Private Giving -- includes individual donations and grants: 10Commercial Activities -- includes user fees: 54 (Source: Lester M. Salamon, America's Nonprofit Sector)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); TAX LAW (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); STARTUPS (65%) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; MUSEUMS 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (57%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); GIRL SCOUTS; HARVARD UNIVERSITY; CHILDREN'S TELEVISION NETWORK 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



440 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4498 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Qaeda's Grocery Lists And Manuals of Killing

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE and C. J. CHIVERS 

 BODY:
On Aug. 17, 1995, Amir Maawia Siddiqi, the son of a bookshop owner in a small village in Pakistan, set down his oath of allegiance to the jihad. 
 "I, Amir Maawia Siddiqi, son of Abdul Rahman Siddiqi, state in the presence of God that I will slaughter infidels my entire life," he wrote. "And with the will of God I will do these killings in the supervision and guidance with Harkat ul-Ansar." 
 He accepted a code name, Abu Rashid, signed his name and concluded, "May God give me strength in fulfilling this oath." 
The oath, found in a house in Kabul used by a Pakistani Islamist group, was part of an extensive paper record that fleeing Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters left behind last fall at sites across Afghanistan. Reporters for The New York Times collected over 5,000 pages of documents from abandoned safe houses and training camps destroyed by bombs. 
It is a rare collection, the raw, unmediated stuff of the jihadis' lives. Individually, the documents are shards -- as mundane as a grocery list and as chilling as notes for the proper positioning of a truck bomb. But taken together, they tell a rich inside story of the network of radical Islamic groups that Osama bin Laden helped assemble in Afghanistan. 
The documents show that the training camps, which the Bush administration has described as factories churning out terrorists, were instead focused largely on creating an army to support the Taliban, which was waging a long ground war against the Northern Alliance. 
An estimated 20,000 recruits passed through roughly a dozen training camps since 1996, when Mr. bin Laden established his base of operations in Afghanistan, American officials say. Most received basic infantry training that covered the use of various small arms, as well as antiarmor and antiaircraft weapons and, in some cases, basic demolition, the documents show.
"The vast majority of them were cannon fodder," a United States government official said.
A smaller group of recruits was selected for elite training that appeared to prepare them for terrorist actions abroad. "Observing foreign embassies and facilities," was the subject of one Qaeda espionage course. Another taught "shooting the personality and his guard from a motorcycle." 
Above all, the documents show how far Mr. bin Laden progressed in realizing his central vision: joining Muslim militants, energized by local causes, into a global army aimed at the West. From the mid-1990's on, recruits came to Afghanistan from more than 20 countries, as varied as Iraq and Malaysia, Somalia and Britain. 
The young men arrived in Afghanistan under the auspices of several different militant groups, each of which ran training camps. But once there, they received strikingly similar courses of religious indoctrination and military training. Parts of the same Arabic-language terrorist manual were found in houses of three of those groups: Al Qaeda, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and Harkat ul-Ansar, the Pakistani group that changed its name to Harkat ul-Mujahadeen and has been linked to the killing of the American journalist Daniel Pearl. 
Commingled under that umbrella was a mix of spoken and written languages; in the documents translated by The Times, there were more than half a dozen: Arabic, Urdu, Tajik, Dari, Pashto, Uzbek and Russian. A few documents were in English. 
This community of militants had progressed so far that it took on the feel of a bureaucracy. There were forms to keep track of ammunition, spending and more. Al Qaeda commanders, like middle managers everywhere, griped about the bosses. In one letter, a commander commiserated with another about their boss's lack of support, and tried to bolster his friend's flagging morale, reminding him, "Jihad is, by definition, surrounded by difficulties."
Reporters came upon the documents in musty basements and yards strewn with trash and grenades and mines. Some were streaked with mud, others partly burned. They hardly present a complete picture of Al Qaeda. They show no specific plans for terror operations abroad, and while hinting at an ambition to use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, they contain no evidence that the groups possess them.
They are a decidedly eclectic amalgam. In a house used by the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, an Islamist publication inveighed against "the phenomena of the Beatles and the hippies," which had "caused a great danger against the security of America and Europe." A National Rifle Association target was found in a Harkat house in Kabul. A few miles away, in a Qaeda house, a sign implored, "My brother the mujahid, my brother the visitor, please keep the guest house clean."

Resumes of Holy Warriors
The letter, dated Feb. 26, 1995, was addressed to "respected emir for ministry of ammunition" and it announced the arrival at a Harkat safe house of another recruit.
"Brother, Muhammad Afzal, who is with this letter, is coming for the training," said the letter from a Harkat official in Pakistan. "He is master in karate. You can try to take full advantage of him, very hard-working fellow. Blessings to all other fellows."
Throughout the late 1990's, young men streamed through the Khyber Pass and on to dusty training camps operated by Al Qaeda and other Islamic radical groups. Many carried letters of introduction as proof of their trustworthiness.
Lists found in houses around Afghanistan show that the men came from countries in the Islamic world and beyond: Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Syria, Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Libya, Sudan, Somalia, Bosnia, Bangladesh, China, the Philippines, Russia, Britain, Canada and the United States.
The imported military force turned middle-class homes in Kabul, Mazar-i-Sharif, Kandahar and other cities into headquarters and guest houses, crammed with recruits. Derelict Afghan military bases and fallow fields became training grounds. 
A variety of documents, mostly handwritten, offer glimpses of the young men, and of what drew them to the jihad. One document, found in a Kabul house used by Harkat, contains short biographical sketches of 39 recruits. They were all unmarried. Few had gone beyond secondary school. But quite a few, the interviewers noted, had studied the Koran. Several had previously been connected to fundamentalist groups at home. Many, it appears, were asked if their parents had given them permission to join the jihad. Twelve, the document noted, had permission. Fifteen did not. 
The list gave this information about a man with the code name Sultan Sajid: "Son of Mr. Muhammad Anwar, owner of sweet store. Age: 18 years. Status: Unmarried. Education: Matriculate and learned Koran by translation. Knows how to make sweets, and can hunt birds and fish. Five brothers and four sisters. Address: Kamoke District Gujranwala, at Saboki dandian. Got permission from home happily."
Of a man code-named Hafiz Abu Muhammad, the document says: "Education: Matriculate, memorized Koran. Knows how to embroider. Served in military for three and a half years. He is fond of jihad; that is why he came to us."
Sixteen-year-old Hafiz Muhammad Arif was the son of a customs officer and had five brothers and four sisters, one in medical school. "No permission from home," the list says. "His family wanted to send him to America. Impressed by the speech of Mr. Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman Khalil," Harkat's leader.
Across Kabul, near the Intercontinental Hotel, an ornate, two-story home with a fireplace in the living room had been converted into a Qaeda safe house. There, the lists revealed less personal information; code names were primarily used. But they did record the weapons the men carried. 
A man from Yemen, code-named Abu Labath, was armed with a Kalashnikov assault rifle and three hand grenades. He arrived on May 7, 1999. Abu Qatada al-Madani, a code name suggesting he came from the Saudi city of Medina, arrived on Nov. 29, 1998, armed with a Kalashnikov, an ammunition pouch and hand grenades. He had memorized through the "second part" of the Koran and completed "half of the foundational course." 
Afghanistan was the embodiment of Mr. bin Laden's vision of a global jihad. Radical leaders and foot soldiers met there, networked and bonded, sharing military tactics and religious tracts. The abandoned houses and camps were strewn with inspirational pamphlets, books, videos and CD's, all sounding the call to arms. Central to their message was the re-establishment of the Caliphate, the era of Islam's ascendancy after the death of Muhammad in the eighth century. 
The Caliphate "is the only and best solution to the predicaments and problems from which Muslims suffer today and indubitable cure to the turbulence and internal struggles that plague them," said one English-language treatise. "It will remedy the economic underdevelopment which bequeathed upon us a political dependence on an atheist East and infidel West." 
There was a publication for every count in Mr. bin Laden's indictment of the West. 
The cover of a magazine called The Window shows a woman weeping as a cobra bearing the Star of David looms over Muslim protesters at the Dome of the Rock, the holy Islamic site in Jerusalem. A pamphlet with an American soldier superimposed over the holy city of Mecca urges readers, "Fight until there is no discord and all of religion is for God." A yellow paperback book, "Announcement of Jihad Against the Americans Occupying the Land of the Holy Places," shows a map of Saudi Arabia encircled by American, French and British flags. Its author was "Sheik Osama bin Laden."
Diverse Muslim groups joined Mr. bin Laden's global jihad. Sometimes, they also came seeking help in pressing their own causes back home.
In a Qaeda house in Kabul, there was a public statement from the "Islamic Battalion, Kurdistan, Iraq," dated Nov. 20, 1999, calling on "the movement for Islamic unity" to help in the jihad against President Saddam Hussein. There was also a handwritten letter to Mr. bin Laden from an unidentified Russian who said his group needed training for two attacks in Russia. 
Harkat members fought alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan, but their true obsession was India's control of the disputed territory of Kashmir. In the moldering basement of the group's Kabul house, amid rocket-propelled grenades, ammunition boxes and land mines, sat boxes of glossy green labels for a recruiting cassette featuring "sermons of distinguished Muslim scholars" and "jihadi poems." 
Fighters from Uzbekistan and Tajikistan had a different agenda: installing an Islamic government in Uzbekistan, and ultimately uniting Central Asia and Xinjiang, a predominantly Muslim region of western China, into an sprawling Islamic theocracy called Turkestan. 
"All the Muslim people of Turkestan have lost their patience and have chosen the holy road to emigration for preparing for jihad-in-the-way-of-God," said a flier found in the headquarters of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan in Mazar-i-Sharif. "Thank God that all these new immigrants have completed jihad training and are prepared for practical jihad."

Push-Ups and Sit-Ups
A sprawling training camp in the serene farming village of Rishkhor, 20 miles south of Kabul, is mostly rubble now. Walls are still painted with Koranic verses and slogans invoking the jihad. "All the Christians, Jews and infidels have joined hands against Afghanistan," one poster begins. Bombing by American fighters last fall destroyed all but two of the dozen or so buildings and turned fields into a landscape of craters. The ground is littered with unexploded mines and unspent ammunition. Everywhere there is paper.
Documents from Rishkhor -- where Afghans, Pakistanis and Arabs trained -- along with records, notebooks and manuals found elsewhere in Afghanistan, show that recruits received the kind of regimented, demanding basic training that infantry soldiers get in much of the world, but with steady infusions of Islamic fervor. This is reflected in the "Rules for the Day" found at a Harkat house. It declares:
"Follow all Islamic principles. 
"Pray five times a day.
"Punctual for food.
"No ammunition training without the permission of the teacher.
"Cleanliness.
"Clean beds and tents once a week.
"Clean the environment.
"Do not leave compound.
"No political discussions.
"No arguments.
"No drugs.
"Go to bed early." 
Physical training began at 6 a.m., according to a schedule found at the house. Calisthenics performance was scrupulously monitored. One morning, a recruit named Abu Turab led his class of 38, knocking off 45 push-ups and 40 sit-ups and crawling 25 meters in 21 seconds, according to a chart. 
Abu Rashid was in the middle of the pack, with 30 push-ups, 30 sit-ups and 35 seconds in the crawl. Even injured men took part. Abu Hanza, who the chart noted had a wounded hand, and Asad Ullah, with a wounded leg, did 30 sit-ups each and crawled 25 yards in 23 seconds. (They skipped push-ups.)
Others struggled to make the grade. Saif Ullah took a full 60 seconds to crawl those 25 yards. Others labored to complete a group run. Khalid was "slightly behind," Abdullah "cannot run along," and Asad Ullah "stopped three times," according to the chart. Tipu Sultan appeared to be the worst of all, managing only 11 push-ups and 10 sit-ups and skipping the group run. His name was scratched off the list. 
After their workout, recruits took a break, presumably for breakfast, and returned for basic infantry classes from 8:30 to 9:10, 9:15 to 10:40 and 11:10 to 12:35. After lunch and prayers, the afternoon was for Koran study, sports and lectures. Students answered essay questions. "It is not easy to write on martyrs such as these," one said in answering a question on the lives of the great Muslim martyrs. "The pen does not give them their due." 
Classes at the different camps followed the same basic infantry lesson plan. A training notebook from a recruit named Muhammad Rashid Arghany moved through the use of the Kalashnikov, rocket-propelled grenades, mortars, map reading and celestial navigation. The course was highly detailed, and the recruit appears to have taken handwritten notes every step of the way.
Military instruction drew on religious doctrine. "Without a sign from the leader you should not retreat," read the notes of a student in a class on ambush tactics. "Because the Koran says: 'Do not retreat, but stay steady; in time of war there is no death. My only power is the power of Allah.' "
The instructor emphasized the importance for gunmen to remain completely still while laying in wait. "This is very difficult work, and therefore in order to save oneself from melancholy, and selfishness and confusion, you must remain in prayer and meditation on Allah," the class notes say. 
The notebook goes on to describe how to carry out a coordinated infantry assault, a carefully timed maneuver in which infantrymen advance while support troops on their flank fire directly in front of them. If the timing is off, the advancing soldiers can be killed by the fire of their comrades. 
"If he is hit by their own bullets or if the enemy's fire becomes intense, do not become upset, but do your work with patience and care," the notes say. The lecturer explained that a soldier killed by his own forces would still be considered a "shahid," or martyr, and be granted immediate entrance to heaven. 
Like any army, though admittedly with its own religious and political vernacular, the jihadi network was constantly indoctrinating and building esprit de corps. A quick summary of the "Goals and Objectives of Jihad" was found in a Qaeda house: 
"1. Establishing the rule of God on earth.
"2. Attaining martyrdom in the cause of God.
"3. Purification of the ranks of Islam from the elements of depravity."
Another document described the two "illegitimate excuses for leaving Jihad" -- "love of the world" and "hatred of death."
The Qaeda Media Committee made sure past victories were remembered. A flier from one guest house advertised a screening of a new film, "The Destruction of the American Destroyer Cole." 
"Please let us know your comments and suggestions," the committee wrote. 
Other notebooks depicted an entirely different type of training: espionage and explosives classes, perhaps for more advanced recruits or those headed to terror cells abroad. (Ahmed Ressam, a Qaeda member convicted of plotting to blow up Los Angeles International Airport during millennium celebrations, testified at a trial in New York last year that he first attended a basic infantry camp and then received advanced training.) 
An espionage class notebook, written in neat Arabic but not signed, had the following headings: "How to use a code, security of operations, security plan, intelligence, intelligence gathering, surveillance, methods of communication, methods of opening envelopes, persuasion, planning for intelligence operations, recruitment, managing assets, choosing an asset."
"Persuasion," for instance, involved "obtaining information from a person through conversations with him without his realizing the importance of what he is saying."
There were step-by-step instructions on surveillance: "Get complete description of person, his habits, his daily errands, his children and his wife, his standing in the community, his skills and educational goals, his income, when he wakes, the best times for inspecting his house, places he goes regularly." 
An Arabic-language explosives curriculum found in the Harkat house gave detailed instructions on how to make and handle a range of substances: nitroglycerin, HMDT, RDX, C-4, C-3, dynamite and ammonium nitrate.
A final section dealt with "major poisons and poison gasses," which "can be extracted in various ways, and we shall, God willing, review these various ways later." The document listed the toxins -- including ricin, botulism and cyanide -- and described how to manufacture and use them. 
There were syllabuses for a variety of advanced classes. For one class, a Harkat document listed these "standards to be achieved": 
"1. Follow the armed person, and kill him quietly.
"2. To be able to patrol closely.
"3. To penetrate at enemy positions with expertise."
Another Harkat class, this one 65 days long, involved instruction in such matters as "hit teams" and "hijacking of air, bus, ship." For yet another, the fourth item on the syllabus was "Movie, 'Great Escape.' "
Among the students at one elite 10-day program was a Qaeda recruit named Atta al-Azdi. On his first day, a Sunday, he learned "shooting the personality and his guard from a motorcycle," his class schedule shows. On Monday, he moved along to "shooting at two targets in a car from above, front and back."
The training, which included strict limits on the range and number of bullets he could use, wound up with lessons in "killing personality using R.P.G.," a rocket-propelled grenade, and "killing personality and guards from car." 
An instructor scribbled a one-word evaluation of Mr. Azdi's performance during the final two sessions: "Good."

Bureaucracy and Paperwork
Behind the sprawling network of camps lay an extensive bureaucracy. And like every bureaucracy, it churned out paper: expense forms, finance notebooks, computer parts inventories, lists of rented houses. 
"Twenty-Second Jihad Division -- Kabul Front" had its own forms for tracking soldiers and expenses, with the name of its commander, "Abdul Wakil from Somalia," printed in the lower left-hand corner. "Al Qaeda Ammunition Warehouse" forms kept an inventory of weapons and munitions. 
Officials were hounded to monitor spending. In a testy note dated June 19, 2001, a Qaeda official named Abdel Hadi el-Ansary wrote to a colleague, "El Shaikh Abu Abdalla had personally emphasized for the second time the necessity of absolutely sending the budget expenditure tables."
Even the most common expenditures were recorded. "Bread, vegetables, cooking oil, medicines," one expense form read. "Potatoes, onions, tea, rice," read another. One document accounted for an assistant chef's salary of $20 a month. 
There were even inventories of martyrs. A computer-generated list found in the Harkat house enumerated each man's "time of death," "place of death," "cause of death," "where buried," and "number of grave."
The groups even produced organizational guidelines, including a 28-page Arabic-language document, "Forming Military Units at the Behest of the Ministry of Jihad," found in a Qaeda house. 
One page devoted to command structure listed three divisions under the "executive officer": "administrative affairs," "personnel issues" and "social work." It went on to enumerate various administrative responsibilities, including "monitoring young men," "attention to administrative affairs of brothers staying for periods of longer than six months," and "undertaking basic services -- food, cleaning clothes, making sure meals are served on time." 
Another page showed how to set up a camp for a battalion of soldiers, with a diagram showing placement of the entrance gate, sleeping quarters, ammunition warehouse, water tank, mosque and headquarters. The camp, the document said, "is like a beehive," where soldiers should "check and maintain their weapons," "train for combat," receive "moral guidance" and have "pure, clean competitions between the various units for excellence." 
There were equipment specifications. Each "mujahid," according to a Harkat document, should get "uniform, boots, army belt, hat, handkerchief, flashlight, batteries, soap, pencil, jackets, gloves, medicines." 
Mr. bin Laden, who has effectively used the media to fashion an image and spread his message, was also quite interested in what the press was saying about him and his cause. The March 2001 issue of the Qaeda Media Committee's monthly press packet included news articles culled from the Internet with these headlines: 
"Taliban Halt Production of Opium."
"Belgian Intelligence Service Stops Bin Laden Smuggling of Russian Missiles." 
"Jordan: 9 Indictments Against 2 Leaders of Bin Laden's Organization."
"Taliban Execute 2 Women Accused of Prostitution."
Under a headline that read "American State Department: Israel Used Excessive Force" was a picture of a Israeli soldier picking up the body of an Arab man. The soldier resembled former Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel. Under the picture was a note: "Barak murdering a Muslim."
If the jihadi army operated like other organizations, it also displayed much of the usual internal bickering. 
Recruits complained about their instructors. "Thank God for the opportunity to take this course," a recruit named Rami wrote in what appeared to be an evaluation of one of his classes. But then he pointed out that "I'm not sure about the requirements of this course, since the trainer pressures the trainees and stresses their nerves."
Commanders griped about their bosses. In an Aug. 27, 2001, letter, a commander named Abd al-Hadi al-Ansari commiserated with a colleague, Abd al-Wakil, about how their superior did not support them. He said he had noticed a recent loss of morale in Mr. Wakil and counseled him on how to navigate the frustrations of the bureaucracy.
"Don't let anyone put pressure on you. Don't accept an assignment you cannot implement," he wrote. "Whenever you are given a new assignment, try to create your own team and never choose brothers that are older than you."
Even the big bosses carped. 
"I think that there are no more people who truly trust in good any more," said a memo dated June 15, 1998, from a Qaeda house. "Everyone has trained his followers so that they are only concerned about their own status, name and rank, that they have forgotten everything about following orders and respecting their main leader."
It was signed "the servant of Islam Mullah Muhammad Omar."

Chain of Command
Mr. bin Laden's dream took shape on the desolate Shamali Plain, a broad plateau just north of Kabul where years of trench warfare have turned a belt of vineyards into a maze of wilted vines and jagged stumps. Hundreds of young Muslim men who came from around the world for indoctrination and training in Afghanistan were sent to the front to fight for the Taliban in a grinding war with the Northern Alliance.
Defending the Taliban's hold on Afghanistan was the primary mission of the jihad, and Northern Alliance soldiers spoke with awe of the willingness of Arabs, Pakistanis and other volunteers to die for the cause.
Mr. bin Laden, in a long dispatch to the Muslim faithful found in a house used by Al Qaeda in Kabul, urged them to recognize Mullah Omar, the head of the Taliban, as "the leader of the faithful." 
But for many fighters, the deepest inspiration was Mr. bin Laden himself. 
In a handwritten Arabic letter from the trenches north of Kabul, a commander named Oma al-Adani described a dream "one of the brothers" had about Mr. bin Laden. "I was in my bedroom, and I saw the Prophet Muhammad," he wrote. "He looked to his left and saw Fahd, the king of Saudi Arabia, and said, 'Those are not from me, and I am not from them.' "
"Then he walked and saw Sheik Osama and the martyrs," a reference to Mr. bin Laden and his followers, "and said, 'Those are from me, and I am of them.' "
The machinery that Mr. bin Laden had assembled answered his call to defend the Taliban. Ledgers, notebooks and letters found in houses used by Al Qaeda and Harkat detailed the movement of soldiers to units stationed north of Kabul. A notebook entitled "Kabul front" and written in Arabic appeared to record fighters sent to the front: Bilal, 20, who went to Afghanistan in 1998, and Amir, 23, who arrived in 2000.
Left behind in the trenches of the Shamali Plain are crumpled scraps of paper that reflect the diversity of fighters Mr. bin Laden had drawn to the jihad. In one bunker, Lufti, an Arab recruit, left a note written by two friends, imploring, "Don't forget us in your prayers while you're gone." Pakistani newspapers and cassettes with sermons by radical Pakistani clerics were found a few hundreds yards away. A pay stub for a young Pakistani man named Ahmad Bakhtair lay on the ground outside one bunker. His job title was "helper," according to the stub, and his net salary in May 2001 was 2,655 rupees, or roughly $40.
In another trench, a volunteer left another scrap: a page from Newsday, the Long Island newspaper, dated April 19, 2001.
Today, the young men of Mr. bin Laden's jihad are again in combat, this time against American troops.
The end of their story has not yet been written, but the words of a Harkat recruit who fought against the Northern Alliance in an earlier battle may suggest one.
"I was wounded," he wrote in a diary found in a Harkat house. "Out of four of us, three of us were wounded and the fourth one, Brother Muhammad Siddiq, was martyred. . . . We were taken to the hospital, and there we said farewell to Brother Siddiq. We three are still in search of our home."

The Jihad Files
Future articles will further examine documents left behind in Afghanistan by Islamic militants.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page caption on Sunday for an illustration of an Urdu-language document left behind by Islamic militants in Afghanistan identified it incorrectly. The document was an oath signed by Muhammad Sajid Ali, a recruit from Pakistan. (The caption referred to another recruit's oath, previously considered for publication.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: This 1995 oath of allegiance by Amir Maawia Siddiqi, handwritten in Urdu, was one small piece of a trove of documents from sites abandoned by Al Qaeda and other militant Islamic groups in Afghanistan. (pg. 1); A training camp near Mazar-i-Sharif. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); A Kabul house used by Al Qaeda. (Tyler Hicks/Getty Images, for The New York Times); Osama bin Laden on video in June 2001. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 18); Cased rockets in a Qaeda house in Kabul. (Tyler Hicks/Getty Images, for The New York Times); Bags of books left in a Kunduz building. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 19) ChartVarious documents found in training camps and safe houses in Afghanistan. Recruiting 1. A blank oath of allegiance to the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan found in the home of the group's military commander in Mazar-i-Sharif. The final passage reads, "I give my oath with Allah as my witness to you that I am ready to be a martyr in order to attain the high goals jihad has striven for and fight with all my heart to the last drop of my blood with a pure mind and patient resoluteness and endure every kind of difficult condition in this jihad movement." 2. A cassette tape found in a house in Kabul used by Harkat-ul-Mujahedeen, a Pakistani Islamist group. The cassette features "sermons by distinguished Muslim scholars" and "jihad poems." The top line says, "Battle has been fixed as your duty." 3. A computer-generated sign found in the Harkat house that reads, "Live with Honer, Die with Honer." 4. A declaration of jihad in Dari from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan found in the home of its military commander in Mazar-i-Sharif. One passage reads, "To release these innocent people from the claws of the oppressors, to return the thousands of closed mosques and schools to the Muslims, for our higher goals to erect and impose the rule of Islam and Islamic law, we mention this only solution, jihad." 5. A book found in a house used by Al Qaeda in Kabul: "Announcement of Jihad Against the Americans Occupying the Land of the Holy Places," by Sheik Osama bin Laden. Life in the Camps 6. A 1999 Harley-Davidson motorcycle calendar found in a house used by Al Qaeda in Kabul. 7. A handwritten sign found in a Qaeda house in Kabul: "Dear mujahid, without insisting, no admittance." 8. A diagram from a Qaeda manual on establishing an encampment for an infantry battalion, showing the proper placement of sleeping quarters, headquarters, ammunition storage, horse grounds, mosque and training fields. 9. A registration form for Harkat's Khalid bin Whalid training camp. The form says "Jihad" on the top of the page, and common Islamic prayers cover the group's seal. The form asks for a recruit's name, age, nationality, religious education, code name, skills, languages, military experience and blood type. 10. A sign found in a Qaeda house in Kabul that says, "My brother the mujahid, my brother the visitor, please keep the guest house clean." 11. A copy of Al Murabitan, an Arabic-language magazine published in Kabul named after the Arab and Berber warriors who conquered Spain in the eighth century. 12. A handwritten Nov. 21, 2000, letter from an Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan official urgently requesting boots for "mujahid soldiers," "madrasa students" and "the elderly and the sick." 13. A March 21, 2001, receipt for "onions, carrots, yogurt, cooking oil and apples," found in an Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan house. 14. A notebook from an espionage class found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. Some notebooks sold in the region are made out of scrap paper from other countries. Organization 15. A list of bullets, grenades and other munitions, found in an Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan house. 16. A "22nd Jihad Brigade" expenditure form found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. Thank you is printed in the lower right corner. 17. A "monthly expenses" form dated May 22, 2001, listing "sweet potatoes, onions, tea, rice," found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. 18. An Aug. 8, 2001, receipt for petroleum, found in an Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan house. 19. An inventory listing mines, antitank weapons, fuses and grenades, found in an Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan house. 20. Harkat letterhead stationery found in a house in Kabul. 21. A Dec. 28, 1999, receipt for elementary school textbooks for children of Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan fighters. 22. The cover page of "Various Selections," a packet of news articles culled from the Internet by the "Qaeda Media Committee." The March 2001 cover page promotes articles with headlines like "Barak Kills a Muslim," "Taliban Halt Production of Opium," and "Russian and Indian Weapons Go to Opposition." 23. A May 29, 2001, news roundup published by the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan that cites a report accusing Uzbekistan and other Central Asian countries of human rights abuses. A second item describes a new Taliban decree ordering Hindus "to wear a badge and dress in yellow clothes so they are distinguished from others." The report adds that the American and Indian governments and other "opposition forces" criticized the decree. 24. A page from a Qaeda media packet showing a British Broadcasting Corporation Web site article about the release of one of the group's training videos. Letters 25. A handwritten letter describing a recruit's dream about Osama bin Laden, found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. It says the Prophet Muhammad appeared in the dream, and "he walked and saw Sheik Osama and the martyrs," and said, "'Those are from me, and I am of them."' 26. A June 15, 1998, letter from Mullah Muhammad Omar to "all Taliban members young and old," found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. Mullah Omar complains that his orders are not being followed. 27. A letter from Osama bin Laden, found in a Qaeda house in Kabul, urging Muslims to recognize Mullah Omar as "the leader of the faithful." It adds, "I send you this call at a time when the blood of innocent children is being shed and where Muslim holy sites continue to be violated in more than one place under the supervision of the New International Order." American Sources 28. An official National Rifle Association target found in a Harkat house in Kabul. 29. A page from a United States Marine Corps manual describing sniper training, found in a Harkat house in Kabul. 30. An owner's manual for an American-made Maverick 88 pump action shotgun found in a training camp south of Kabul. 31. An English-language children's book about two boys' adventures with George Washington, found in a Qaeda house in Kabul. 32. The table of contents for The Poisoner's Handbook, found in a Harkat house in Kabul. 33. A flight simulator manual made by a company in Willowbrook, Ill., found in a Harkat house in Kabul. 34. A sheet of scrap paper found in a Harkat house in Kabul used to print a computer test page and a list of martyrs.(pg. 18) Chart/Map: "A Network of Networks"Various Islamist groups operated and shared camps across Afghanistan where they made contacts, shared tactics and bonded with one another. Guest house for members and trainees Map of Afghanistan highlighting training camp locations of Al Qaeda, Harkat ul Mujahedeen, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and other groups. (pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (88%); MILITARY TRAINING (88%); BOMBINGS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); ESPIONAGE (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAMIC MOVEMENT OF UZBEKISTAN (94%); AL-QAEDA (94%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%) ROHDE, DAVID; CHIVERS, C J; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ; MALAYSIA; SOMALIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



441 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Seeking Buried Treasure, The Old-Fashioned Way

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
INVESTORS are showing renewed interest in small mining exploration companies that live in the hope of hitting the next mother lode. The sector, speculative in the best of times, has been troubled recently by slumping metal prices and scandal. 
 The names of some current favorites reflect their high potential for both risk and reward. The Eldorado Gold Corporation, the Minefinders Corporation and Golden Star Resources Ltd., all listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, are among those whose stock prices have doubled in recent months. Eldorado, for instance, closed at 69 Canadian cents on Friday, up from 26 cents at the end of 2001. 
 "The atmosphere has changed in the past four to five months," said William F. Zimmerman, retired president of BHP Diamonds, a unit of BHP Billiton of Australia and a director of Kensington Resources, a Vancouver, British Columbia, company that owns a 42 percent stake in a diamond deposit in central Saskatchewan. These days, Mr. Zimmerman said, "you see more people talking about projects."
Over the last three months, Kensington's stock, listed on the Canadian Venture Exchange, has moved from a low of 65 Canadian cents to 1.21 Canadian dollars on Friday. The venture exchange, a unit of the Toronto exchange, trades stocks that do not meet requirements for listing on the main board.
Patrick O'Hara, a geologist from Prescott, Ariz., said some investors who formerly traded technology on the Nasdaq "may be looking at speculative mining ventures now, especially if it looks as if commodity prices may come back up."
Mr. O'Hara and a partner are seeking investors to help finance underground drilling of what he considers a promising copper and gold deposit in central Arizona.
As Mr. O'Hara puts it, his modest operation is "at the base" of the mining pyramid. The next stage would be to involve a "junior" exploration company -- a company listed on a stock exchange but not engaging in significant mining. Most of these companies are based in Canada or Australia, though they operate throughout the world.
If the deposit appeared to justify building a mine, a larger group, like Barrick Gold or Newmont Mining in gold or Phelps Dodge in copper, might buy a stake.
Investors were wary of the junior exploration sector after the collapse of Bre-X Minerals in 1997 in a gigantic fraud. Bre-X, based in Calgary, Alberta, produced fake gold samples from a deposit in Indonesia that turned out to be worthless, and investors lost billions.
The malaise has been compounded by uncertainty over metal prices, especially those for gold. Until early 2000, investors looking for speculative ventures were more likely to strike it rich in Internet and other technology stocks on the Nasdaq.
The Metals Economics Group, a research firm in Halifax, Nova Scotia, estimates that worldwide spending on precious and nonferrous metals exploration dropped to $2.2 billion in 2001, less than half the level in 1997 and the lowest in nine years.
But signs are emerging of a pickup in exploration, thanks in part to a recent spurt in platinum and gold prices. Another boost may come from the United States economic rebound, which optimists say will revive other metal markets. The giants of the mining sector are looking to the smaller exploration companies to find new deposits.
David Cox, a senior analyst at the research firm, said that "companies with a good story have been able to raise money."
"Through this year," he added, "I would expect the junior sector to show some kind of increase."
One barometer is a spate of deals to finance new exploration. Shares in Francisco Gold, a Vancouver company with prospects in Mexico and Guatemala, have rocketed more than 50 percent in the last month since the company agreed to be acquired by Glamis Gold Ltd., which is based in Reno, Nev., and trades on the Toronto exchange.
Placer Dome Inc., an international producer based in Vancouver, agreed in January to spend $4.5 million over the next four years to evaluate a gold deposit in Mexico held by Minefinders in exchange for a 51 percent stake in the project.
SUCH deals have helped persuade Caesar Bryan, who manages the Gabelli Gold fund, based in Rye, N.Y., to add several exploration stocks to his portfolio in recent months, including Eldorado and Ivanhoe Mines, a Vancouver company that is evaluating a copper and gold deposit in Mongolia. Ivanhoe shares, listed on the Toronto and Australian exchanges, have climbed from 1.80 Canadian dollars just before Christmas to 3.28 on Friday.
"We're in a better market," Mr. Bryan said. But he added that these stocks accounted for only about 3 percent of his fund's assets: "They're a little more speculative and I'm not a geologist."
Robert Cohen, senior analyst at the Dynamic Precious Metals fund in Toronto, said his portfolio "is being slowly rotated downward into some of the junior names."
"In a careful way," he added, "I'm picking the gems that I think will perform extraordinarily well."
Caution may be advised. Mark Smith, a mining analyst in Toronto, said that "in a bull market, risk tends to be forgotten." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MINING (89%); COPPER MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); SCANDALS (77%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (76%) GOLD; MINES AND MINING; METALS AND MINERALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (85%); GOLDEN STAR RESOURCES LTD (84%); ELDORADO GOLD CORP LTD (58%); TMX GROUP LTD (57%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (52%); BRE-X MINERALS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BRE-X MINERALS LTD 

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (85%); BIBLT (JSE) (85%); BBL (NYSE) (85%); GSS (NYSE MKT) (84%); GSC (TSX) (84%); ELD (TSX) (58%); EGO (NYSE) (58%); X (TSX) (57%); TXQ (FRA) (57%); NEM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (85%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (86%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (57%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%) CANADA (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



442 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Locker-Room Lucre and the Siren Song of Entitlement 

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
LIKE most people last week who heard the sad tale of the reserve New York Yankees outfielder who admitted to stealing a game glove and bat from the star shortstop Derek Jeter in the team's spring training clubhouse, Barry Halper couldn't believe it at first. Why would Ruben Rivera risk and eventually forfeit $800,000 in salary for the $2,500 he was handed by a memorabilia dealer for the pilfered gear?
 Then Halper, a longtime collector with close business and personal ties to baseball, recalled the time a player more famous and better paid than Rivera made him an offer that, while not criminal, was nearly as confounding. 
 "Roberto Alomar calls and says he's interested in selling me a World Series trophy he had from when he was in Toronto," Halper said. With similar items in his collection, Halper didn't bite, but the subject of Alomar's trophy sale arose later in a conversation with Paul Beeston, a Blue Jays executive. "Paul was dumbfounded," Halper said. "He said, 'Why the heck would he want to sell that? We gave that to him.' " 
As Halper told Beeston, players who earn millions often sell personal and prideful keepsakes for what amounts to petty cash. One explanation for last week's thievery might be that Rivera, a Panamanian and the cousin of the Yankees' relief ace Mariano Rivera, has never felt economically elevated, like many athletes raised poor. An alternate and more likely motivation for the behavior, which Rivera said he deeply regrets (he returned the items before being cut), is that big-league ballplayers and most professional athletes operate in a vacuum of entitlement.
Rivera may not have achieved the stardom once forecast for him, but he is a major leaguer and therefore an unqualified success story and hero back home. And in America's distorted and inflated sports consumer culture, even failed prodigies who become journeymen can expect people to line up and pay for their autographs. The typical pro career is relatively brief, but an active athlete can expect a life of largesse, be it from those willing to pay for a piece of them or those merely wanting to touch them. In a variety of ways and on too many documented occasions, athletes on all levels lose their sense of propriety in a moment of craving.
While many agents and assorted outsiders have swindled athletes, rare are the reported cases of players stealing from one another. Legend has it that Leo Durocher, as a young Yankee infielder, took money or a wristwatch from Babe Ruth. Durocher, the story goes, was not only banished but given a Ruthian beating to boot.
Clubhouse theft might have been more understandable when the average player didn't make enough money to support his family year-round, except there was little to take that could be traded for cash. Halper, for instance, once asked Joe DiMaggio, a good friend, what he did with the bat he used during his record 56-game hitting streak. DiMaggio said he gave it to Lou Costello. Yes, that Costello, Abbott's comic co-conspirator.
Locker-room theft isn't limited to baseball. Last year the brother of Pat Croce, president of the N.B.A.'s Philadelphia 76ers, was caught on videotape stealing cash from the pants pocket of the team's superstar, Allen Iverson. Marty Appel, a former Yankees public relations executive, said monetary theft has never been an issue in baseball clubhouses, which usually have lockboxes for players' valuables.
Appel recalled that the lockbox in the prerenovated Yankee Stadium in the mid-1970's was the original one from the New York Highlanders of the early 20th century. "It actually had the players' names inscribed on the boxes -- Jack Chesbro, Wee Willie Keeler," Appel said. "I remember telling Pete Sheehy, the old clubhouse guy, that they had to somehow save it. Of course, they didn't."
How unfortunate. Imagine what it would have fetched today, once surreptitiously removed from the premises.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ROBBERY (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) BASEBALL; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; MEMORABILIA 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (55%) NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: DEREK JETER (88%) JETER, DEREK; HALPER, BARRY; RIVERA, RUBEN; ARATON, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



443 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Osama bin Later 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The actual text (and annotated subtext) of President Bush's remarks on Osama bin Laden at his press conference on Wednesday:
 THE PRESIDENT: Deep in my heart, I know the man is on the run, if he's alive at all. 
 (Karl says we have to low-ball expectations on Evil. Karl says we must never talk about the Evil One and the One-Eyed One, so my approval ratings won't depend on whether we get their scalps.) 
Who knows if he's hiding in some cave or not? We haven't heard from him in a long time. 
(Rummy says the Evil One -- I mean, the One Formerly Known as Evil -- and a lot of the top Al Queda commanders vamoosed from Tora Bora to Pakistan in December. Rummy says we blew it and should never have trusted those double-dealing Afghan varmints to seal the borders and check the caves. But Rummy says it's not a mistake if you don't admit it.)
And the idea of focusing on one person is -- indicates to me people don't understand the scope of the mission.
(Karl says that if I repeat this mumbo jumbo often enough, people will buy it and forget all that Wanted Dead or Alive junk.)
Terror is bigger than one person.
(Karl says we'll all be terrified if one person -- the Democratic nominee in 2004 -- can make the argument that we've been spending $2 billion a month on a manhunt without catching any of the 9/11 villains.) 
And he's just -- he's a person who's now been marginalized.
(Karen says we have to marginalize Osama or we'll be marginalized.)
His network, his host government has been destroyed. He's the ultimate parasite who found weakness, exploited it and met his match.
(Vice says the Ultimate Parasite may have already leeched onto another host country -- Yemen, the Philippines or maybe Somalia -- where he could be e-mailing terror orders to his friends from his Mac.)
You know, I just don't spend that much time on him, to be honest with you. 
(I can't stop thinking about it. Dad says I should pretend he didn't slip through our fingers. Dad says if he hadn't compared Saddam to Hitler, people wouldn't have gotten so riled at him when he let Saddam stay in power. Gee, I wish Rummy would hurry up and get Osama. Anyway, Daschle hasn't caught Osama either.)
I'm more worried about making sure that our soldiers are well supplied, that the strategy is clear.
(Karl says we should use the war to help us in the midterm Congressional elections this fall, but we should do it in a way no one notices.)
There's going to be other struggles like Shah-i-Kot, and I'm just as confident about the outcome of those future battles as I was about Shah-i-Kot.
(Rummy says the reason there'll be other struggles like Shah-i-Kot is that everybody keeps escaping. Karl says I have to concentrate on raising a million bucks a week for the struggles in the key battleground states of North Carolina, Minnesota, Missouri and Iowa.)
We are showing the world we know how to fight a guerrilla war with conventional means.
(Condi says we have to have lots of little nukes, just in case.)
Well, as I say, we haven't heard much from him.
(Tom says he's got all those psychedelic color-coded gizmos, just in case.)
I truly am not that concerned about him. I know he is on the run.
(Vice says Osama can't run Al Qaeda on the run, but he never ran Al Qaeda any other way. I asked Vice, "Vice, haven't Osama and his bombs always lived out of a suitcase?" But Vice told me not to overdo the psychoanalytic bit.)
We're working closely with other governments to deny sanctuary, or training, or a place to hide or a place to raise money.
(Vice called me today and said the sheiks aren't shakin' and bakin' with our plans to vaporize Iraq. What is their problemo?)
And we've got more work to do. . . . This is going to be a long struggle.
(Karl says all the way to 2008. He says we're plenty hot because the Dems have no recession, no soft money and no war.)
And I can assure you, I am not going to blink.
(Karl and Karen and Rummy and Vice and Condi and Tom say even if we don't catch Osama, I'm a rock star. Hey, I hang with Bono.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



444 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Better Late Than . . . 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The last time America dominated the world as overwhelmingly as it does today was in the wake of World War II. So why did that America not inspire the sort of global anger that today's America does? Partly it's because the rest of the world was flat on its back then. But more important, it's because America after World War II took responsibility for making the world both a more secure place to live and a better place to live. And it expended a lot of resources, as in the Marshall Plan, to do both.
 Since Sept. 11, the Bush team has focused on making the world safer, but has shown little interest in making it more healthy, less poor and more environmentally sound. As a result, there has been little chance that it was going to end up safer for Americans. 
 Therefore, President Bush's speech on Thursday announcing a $5 billion increase in foreign aid for poor countries is important -- not only as a substantive breakthrough for this administration, but also, one hopes, as a psychological one. Since Sept. 11, President Bush has often noted that the world has fundamentally changed. Yet, time after time, he has exploited the shock of Sept. 11 to argue why his same old, pre-Sept. 11 policies were still the only way to proceed -- only more so. Because of Sept. 11, he has argued, we need even deeper tax cuts for the wealthy, even more money for a pie-in-the-sky missile defense that would have been no use on Sept. 11, an even bigger defense budget and even more drilling for oil in wilderness areas.
The most obvious conclusion from Sept. 11 -- that fighting terrorism around the globe will require a new, multidimensional strategy, not just a defense strategy -- was the one Mr. Bush seemed least inclined to draw, and that's why his speech should be welcomed.
It will be relevant, though, only if it really signals an understanding by the Bush team that there are no walls for us to hide behind anymore, that everything is connected to everything else and that we cannot win a global war against terrorism without global allies, but we will have those allies only if we practice what the architects of the Marshall Plan practiced: enlightened self-interest, not just self-interest. Those postwar wise men persuaded others to follow us because they not only respected our power but also our wisdom and moral example.
The 9/11 terrorists did not hit us because they were poor. But millions of poor people gave passive support to those terrorists because they resented our greed or our support for their bad regimes. That's why it was important that the president said our increased foreign aid must be conditioned on countries' improving their governance, rule of law, social safety nets, investment climates and anticorruption practices.
We can't force elections, but we can use our aid to pressure developing countries to give their people more voice, more rule of law and a fairer slice of the pie, which are their people's real priorities. Here's a tip: The reason Islam seems like such an angry religion today is because so many Muslims are angry. The reason so many Muslims are angry is because most of them live under antidemocratic regimes backed by America, with lagging economies and shrinking opportunities for young people.
Beyond just aid, though, we should also be forging free trade accords with as many Muslim nations as possible (instead of throwing up insane protectionist walls around our steel industry). At the Davos economic forum, one expert noted that Muslim countries made up 20 percent of the world's population, yet only 4 percent of the world's trade. Trade in goods brings trade in ideas. The most open, tolerant places in the Muslim world today are all trading centers: Dubai, Istanbul, Bahrain, Amman, Beirut, Jakarta, coastal India.
But enlightened self-interest is not just about generosity; it's also about self-restraint. We need to find a way to ratify the Kyoto climate change treaty. It's not only the right thing to do, but it would also send a hugely positive signal to the world -- that America understands that if it's going to have lasting allies in a global war on terrorism, it has to be the best global citizen it can be. The attitude that we are entitled to consume 25 percent of the world's energy, while we're only 4 percent of the world's population, is obnoxious. Selfishness and hubris are a terrible combination.
Mr. Bush has repeatedly told the world: If you're not with us, you're against us. He needs to remember this: The rest of the world is saying the same thing to us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); BUDGETS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%); WILDERNESS (50%) TERRORISM; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002 



445 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Why We Vote as We Do 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your March 11 Political Memo predicts that the emerging economic recovery will hurt the Democrats and help the Republicans in the Congressional elections this November. This assumes that most Americans base their voting decisions on only one or two issues. 
 I disagree and am convinced that American voters are more complex and multidimensional than that. 
Although our country has been preoccupied with the economy and the war on terrorism, many of us have also been paying close attention to other policy developments at home and abroad, including those pertaining to education, the environment, energy, health and reproductive rights. 
In light of this, both political parties would be wise to expect that American voters will be taking an array of issues into account when we head to the polls this fall.

WENDY R. SHELDON
San Francisco, March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); POLITICS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: SHELDON, WENDY R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



446 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: McCall's Israel Trip 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 While the focus of my recent trip to Israel was to evaluate our $68 million investment in State of Israel Bonds, we have $500 million in other Israeli investments. 
 Inspecting Israel's investment climate when the political climate there could lead to financial volatility fosters informed, financially sound choices. 
That's why I met with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Finance Minister Silvan Shalom, learning firsthand about Israel's economy and showing solidarity with Israelis, including transplanted New Yorkers.
Joyce Purnick (Metro Matters column, March 11) compared the New York employee pension fund's paying for the trip to the more than $40 million of taxpayer money that Gov. George E. Pataki spends to appear in TV commercials. I protect the pension fund's investments. The governor promotes himself at taxpayers' expense.
I strongly support limiting elected officials from appearing in taxpayer-financed ads. I also strongly support the need for future comptrollers to monitor investments and to travel to protect the pension fund. 

H. CARL MCCALL
State Comptroller
Albany, March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%) ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); JEWS 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%) MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) ISRAEL; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



447 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
The Many, the Skeptical, the Folks Without PC's

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Sharply cutting prices and tossing in free extras, personal-computer makers eked out better-than-expected profits during the holidays by luring customers into upgrading or buying second PC's for their homes.
 But a survey to be released today suggests that the effusive marketing efforts have largely missed the 40 million households in the United States standing fast against the PC wave. Thirty-nine percent of households do not own a PC, statistically the same as the previous year, according to the survey, taken in January by Odyssey, a market research firm based here. 
 Among Odyssey's findings, perhaps the most surprising is the reason that most holdouts gave for not owning a computer at home. Instead of citing price or technological ignorance, more respondents said they just had no compelling reasons to own PC's.
Sean Baenen, a managing director at Odyssey, said the results showed a basic flaw in the marketing strategies of PC manufacturers. While cutting the cost of a computer and including new features, like a DVD or CD burner, may entice some buyers, he said, 40 million households are not convinced that surfing the Internet, calculating finances or being able to do word processing is worth the investment.
"All the data," Mr. Baenen said, "points to the fact that PC manufacturers have been trying to solve problems that most consumers don't have -- price, and more technology for the price."
In a possible sign of the economic slowdown, those who do own computers are keeping them longer. Only 8 percent of the holdouts and 9 percent of the households with PC's said they were "extremely likely" to buy one in the next six months.
"If they're betting on upgrades, they're going to be in trouble," Mr. Baenen said of the manufacturers.
Odyssey's semiannual survey, which polled 2,500 households, suggested that consumers were worrying less about the prices of PC's than they were last year but were more confused by the technology and less likely to think they needed one. 
After doubling from 1994 to 2000, the penetration rate of PC's has leveled off. Sixty-one percent of the nation's 103 million households own a PC, Odyssey found, compared with the 99 percent with a TV.
As growth has slowed in the United States, computer manufacturers have found success selling in emerging markets, like Latin America, India and China. But even as they rely more heavily on international sales, major computer makers say they have not given up on the domestic holdouts.
Dell Computer, the No. 1 PC maker, tries to send catalogs to homes without computers to explain how computers can change people's lives. Hewlett-Packard bundles gadgets with its entry-level computers, trying to pitch digital photography and music as convincing reasons to buy. Gateway will send a technician to set up a computer in a first-time buyer's home for about $100; hooking the machine up to the Internet is $30 more.
"We've definitely evolved," said Erin Nelson, marketing director in Dell's consumer business. "But there's lots of room to get better." CHRIS GAITHER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Many PC's"The proportion of people who own PC's has leveled off, and the percentage of nonowners who plan to buy one soon remains low. Graph tracking households with PC's and non-PC households extremely likely to buy a PC within the next three months. (Source: Odyssey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ODYSSEY (CO) 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); INDIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



448 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
Festival Is Upbeat Despite Music-Business Doldrums

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., March 17 

 BODY:
The two dozen musicians and singers of the Polyphonic Spree, wearing white robes and broad smiles, started the 16th annual South by Southwest Music Festival here with a pop benediction for the doldrums of the music business. "You'll find that you're missing what others thought you had all the time," Tim DeLaughter sang, "And it's high but you're reaching, the trees are getting harder to climb."
 With horns, flute and 10 backup singers chiming in on contrapuntal la-la's, the Polyphonic Spree revived the blissful, elaborate pop of "Penny Lane," "Pet Sounds" and "Happy Together." The group offered a purposeful burst of optimism for an event where a dip in superstar sales, and the fear that Internet file-swapping will make recordings less profitable, could not subdue the pleasures of live music or the ambitions of do-it-yourself bands. 
There was an after-the-gold-rush tone to this annual convention, which is the largest music-business gathering in the United States. Major labels still sent talent scouts but sponsored fewer events. Internet start-ups, which since the late 1990's had hoped to build businesses around recorded music, were almost absent, as major labels have been reluctant to license hit songs to them.
The recession, fear of flying after Sept. 11 and the weakness of the euro were also reflected in the convention's attendance. Approximately 6,500 people came, down by about 15 percent from a peak last year, said Roland Swenson, the managing director of South by Southwest. "We mirror the business, such as it is," he added. "But it's a carnival mirror." 
More than 900 bands performed during the convention, including groups from Sweden, Japan, Iceland and Brazil. And as executives contemplated what Robbie Robertson of the Band called "doom and gloom" in his keynote speech, audiences packed the clubs, cheering and dancing to music that found its rewards in the moment rather than on the charts. 
Jubilation greeted Kinky, a band from Monterrey, Mexico, that knocks out dance grooves built from funk, rock and trance; occasionally, it tops them with a lick of Tex-Mex accordion. Eels, including Joe Gore from P. J. Harvey's band on guitar, played songs full of bleak pessimism and wary hope, with stark riffs and sudden jolts of distortion. Petty Booka, a Hawaiian-flavored Japanese group, had two young women wearing leis and strumming ukuleles, harmonizing songs by Patsy Cline and the Ramones. 
By day, recording executives described a rudderless business. Hilary Rosen, president and chief executive officer of the Recording Industry Association of America, the trade group, compared the labels' insistence on selling music as albums -- rather than singles, individual compilations or Internet subscriptions, among other possibilities -- to offering Coca-Cola only in a 64-ounce bottle. But if the labels were to offer music more cheaply and flexibly on the Internet, she said, they feared offending the CD retailers who currently sell 99 percent of recordings. 
"Record companies have been trying to serve too many masters other than the consumer," she said. "It hasn't been a successful strategy." The cost of promotion to retail stores and radio stations has made an act that aims for the Top 40 a million-dollar investment. Yet there was a glimmer of hope in the example of the movie soundtrack "O Brother, Where Art Thou?," an album that has sold millions of copies although it's a collection of old songs, simply recorded, that was largely ignored by country radio stations.
Miles Copeland, president of Ark 21 Records, warned that the CD business could be destroyed entirely in three years by the availability of free music on the Internet. "We have a serious problem with the industry," he said. "We don't have a way to solve it. They're grasping at straws." He also complained about greedy musicians, saying that if they insist on getting a larger share of their profits on hit recordings, recording companies will have less to invest in struggling bands. He suggested that future musicians should sign a single contract for all their enterprises -- recordings, tours, merchandise, publishing, management -- so that each could support the other. (A similar system, instituted by Motown in the 1960's, left many musicians feeling bitterly exploited.)
Courtney Love, the songwriter and leader of Hole, had little sympathy for recording companies. She has had a three-year legal battle over her contract with Vivendi Universal, the conglomerate that bought the label that signed Hole. She denounced the "short-term thinking" of current record labels. As mergers have made recording companies parts of large corporations, she argued, the pressure to show strong quarterly results to shareholders has caused the labels to seek quick hits rather than lasting music. 
By contrast, the bands in the clubs had long memories. Most of the previous century of music was represented at South by Southwest. There was raw-boned Mississippi blues from T-Model Ford; Texas honky-tonk from the Flatlanders; punk-rock from the Briefs; hip-hop from the Anti-Pop Consortium; robotic, keyboard-driven late-1970's-style rock from Clinic; frisky power pop by the Revs, and jam-band funk and rock from Particle and the Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey. 
The sound of mid-1960's garage bands and psychedelia was all over the festival: in the pounding three-chord songs of the Soundtrack of Our Lives and the Greenhornes, in the drone-based, dramatically surging jams of the Warlocks and in the wailing, extending freakouts of Acid Mothers Temple, a Japanese band that also threw in some throat singing, creating two notes at once. Majestic electric-guitar soundscapes -- droning, swelling, cresting, shrieking -- were at the core of bands like Oceansize and Lift to Experience. 
Austin has long been a bastion of meticulous singer-songwriters, and among the many who performed were Josh Ritter, solo on acoustic guitar, playing folky songs rich in metaphor and romance; Caitlin Cary, formerly of Whiskeytown, who shaped heartbreak into country-rock, and Neil Finn, who sang exquisitely melodic ruminations on mortality and longtime love. 
For many of the bands at South by Southwest, expectations were considerably less exalted than a million-dollar deal. The Six Parts Seven, from Kent, Ohio, plays absorbing, serenely minimalist music built on subtly evolving guitar patterns. Tim Gerak, one of its guitarists, recently quit his day job. "If what we do could pay for itself," he said, "that's what we're looking for."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tim DeLaughter of Polyphonic Spree at South by Southwest festival in Austin. (Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Knocking out dance grooves: Members of Kinky, a band from Monterrey, Mexico, at the South by Southwest Music Festival in Austin. (Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); STARTUPS (68%); DANCE (67%) MUSIC; SOUTH BY SOUTHWEST MUSIC AND MEDIA CONFERENCE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES 

PERSON: PARELES, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ICELAND (67%); JAPAN (67%) AUSTIN (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



449 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Gray Whales Rebound For West Coast Ritual 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

DATELINE: RANCHO PALOS VERDES, Calif., March 16 

 BODY:
Perched on a cliff peak, teetering in director's chairs with binoculars pressed to windblown faces, a gaggle of out-of-work actors, cinematographers and assorted retirees scans the sea for life signs that have grown faint in recent years.
 A dark patch spreads along the surface, a wisp of mist shoots up, a barnacle-studded head breaches the water and a gangly shadow of a whale, barely perceptible in the choppy surf, sticks closely by its side. 
 "Oh my God, there's another calf!" exclaimed Alisa Schulman-Janiger of the American Cetacean Society, which has counted gray whales as they commute up and down the California coast for almost 20 years. "It's so exciting to see a rebound! We're sure due for one." 
After several trying years for the migratory gray whales, when hundreds of calves and their parents washed up dead along the shore -- baffling scientists and dismaying a public that gives them nicknames and tracks their movements -- the beginnings of a recovery are meandering up from Mexico, leaving behind a local tourist economy that just hates to see them go. 
"Every time you look around you see spouts, humps, breaching, spy hopping," said Maria Mitrani, a tour guide in Ojo de Liebre, Mexico, one of the largest lagoons along the Baja peninsula where cows take shelter from predators and nurse newborns. "It's good for business."
On the bluffs south of Los Angeles, spotting whales before they slalom through oil rigs miles off the coast, researchers with telescopes have counted more than three times as many calves in 2002 as they did all last year.
In the calm lagoons in Mexico, naturalists on motorboats have documented roughly twice as many calves as they did in each of the last three years, when the population began tapering off substantially.
"It's nice to see the species recovering," said Gabriel Arturo Zaragoza, the census coordinator for the Vizcaino Biosphere Reserve, where the whales spend the winter.
Though they are heartened by the surge in births, few scientists believed that the population was at risk of extinction. After gray whales came off the endangered species list in 1994, their numbers swelled in three years to 26,600 -- perhaps as many as there had been before whalers began decimating the population in the 19th century.
But right after their record expansion in the mid-1990's, the whales began to die off at one of the fastest rates since commercial whaling was banned in 1947.
Whereas about 35 gray whales typically wash up on the beaches along the Pacific coast every season, as many as 300 each year were rolling in by the turn of the century, leading scientists to believe many hundreds more were dying out at sea and sinking unseen.
Even those that survived looked emaciated, their bones visible through the thick hides that usually cover the layers of blubber so essential for the 11,000-mile annual journey from Alaska to Mexico and back. 
Scientists are still trying to account for the whales' sudden deaths, but speculate that a confluence of events prevented them from gorging on amphipods, the tiny shrimplike creatures on which they depend. 
Toward the end of the 1990's, warm weather off Alaska made the waters almost bearable to humans, causing what researchers at the National Marine Fisheries Service say was a cataclysmic drop in the food supply.
Around that time unusually expansive ice through the Bering Strait kept whales from reaching their feeding grounds so they could not fatten up for the journey south. 
Once they abandon the rich continental shelves in the Bering and Chukchi Seas for the sheltered lagoons of Mexico, the whales essentially do not eat until they return, almost a year later. So after about two seasons of limited feeding, pregnant cows began losing fetuses, and mothers lost the ability to nurse their calves. Many mature whales were too weak to make the whole trip and died along the way.
Researchers have not measured the total impact on the population, but the effect on the youngest whales was clear. By 2000, the number of calves sighted by the fisheries service was less than one-fifth of what it had been three years earlier, causing many to worry about the long-term health of the species. 
"This was beyond our control," said David Rugh, who heads the gray whale census for the service. "It was all in the natural course of events."
For that reason, many scientists see the resurgence of calves as welcome but not permanent. Concerns persist about pollution and the destruction of natural habitats, enough so that the Mexican government canceled plans to build an industrial salt plant near the whales' mating grounds two years ago.
But the primary challenges for the gray whales today are natural occurrences, not humans. 
Some scientists speculate that the whales are nearing the limits of what their habitats can support, thus explaining the surge in deaths after the population boom of the late 1990's.
"The numbers are now sensitive to the environment because there are so many gray whales," Mr. Rugh said. "I don't think we can go out there and make things better for them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Whale-watching tours in the channel between Los Angeles and Catalina Island have more to see this year. The rise in the gray whale population has also meant a revival of the Pacific whale-watching industry. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times); A gray whale breaks the surface of the Ojo de Liebre Lagoon in 1992. (Gerardo Magallon) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: After a Decline, Recovery"Gray whales travel about 5,000 miles from the Arctic waters to Baja California during the winter to find warmth and to breed. From around January through early April, many of the whales give birth to calves and nurse them in the Ojo de Liebre lagoon in Mexico, where there has been a resurgence in the number of whales. Graph tracks peak number of whales (calves and mature) in Ojo de Liebre.Map of the North America highlighting the gray whale summer feeding areas and route of gray whale migration (Sources: San Luis Obispo County Office of Education; El Vizcaino Biosphere Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); WHALING (89%); FILM (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); BEACHES (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (75%); MAMMALS (75%); BIOLOGY (74%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



450 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Improvement Is Seen In U.S. Ad Spending

BYLINE:  By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
In another sign of the growing belief that the American advertising market may be improving after a severe slump, two Wall Street analysts have published reports that discuss an upturn.
 "We believe the U.S. advertising recession is at its end," wrote Leland Westerfield, media analyst at UBS Warburg in New York. 
"The cyclical recovery appears to be under way sooner than anticipated." As evidence, Mr. Westerfield cited data from media buyers and sellers indicating that marketers in many categories "are willing to spend more." 
 As a result, Mr. Westerfield has changed his forecast for ad spending in 2002 compared with 2001, to an increase of 1 percent from a decrease of 2 percent. His forecast for 2003, calling for a gain of 4 percent from 2002, remained unchanged.
Also, Jason Helfstein initiated coverage of the broadcasting industry for CIBC World Markets in New York with a report in which he cited "an improving advertising environment" as a reason to recommend the stocks of several companies in the radio and outdoor-ad fields.
"Radio as an industry is well positioned to benefit from a cyclical recovery," Mr. Helfstein said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%) ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L; WESTERFIELD, LELAND; HELFSTEIN, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



451 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Hynix Creditors Are Said To Accept Offer by Micron 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, March 17 

 BODY:
The creditors responsible for the immediate fate of Hynix Semiconductor appeared today to have overcome major hurdles on the way to agreement to yield control of the company to Micron Technology. 
 Returning from negotiations with Micron in the United States, Lee Yeon Soo, vice president of the government-controlled Korea Exchange Bank, lead creditor for Hynix, said the creditors had reached "an agreement in principle on major issues." 
 Under terms of the deal, Micron would buy all Hynix memory chip factories and would acquire a minimum of 20 percent of Hynix's nonmemory operations for at least $200 million. 
Micron reportedly has offered about $4 billion to form Korea Micron Inc., which together with Micron Technology would make Micron the world's largest manufacturer of memory chips, ahead of Samsung Electronics, long the front-runner.
The deal, however, was thought to be contingent on how much credit the banks would be willing to extend to Korea Micron, and at what exchange rate.
Hynix creditors reportedly have said they would provide as much as $1.5 billion in credit, including $400 million to buy Micron bonds and loans totaling $1.1 billion. Micron was insisting on interest rates as low as 2 percent. 
Negotiators for Korea Exchange Bank and Hanvit Bank, also government-controlled, seemed optimistic about signing a memorandum of understanding with Micron on the deal but said all creditors had to agree on terms. 
One question was that of hidden debts beyond the $6.6 billion Hynix is known to have accumulated. Micron negotiators were said to have requested guarantees of protection against debts that might appear after the deal was completed. Creditors said they could not be responsible for debts uncovered at a later date and also insisted on somewhat higher interest rates for loans. 
Although Hynix lost nearly $4 billion last year alone, some creditors still think the company could turn the corner as prices for memory chips gradually increase. They were in favor of waiting for Micron to make a better offer. At the same time, labor unions have objected to any deal with Micron, which they fear will reduce the current Hynix work force of about 15,000 people.
Hynix executives and major creditors feared, however, that the company would only hemorrhage more money while falling far behind Samsung Electronics in research if it delayed coming to terms in negotiations that have dragged on since December.
Micron passed Hynix last year as the second-largest manufacturer of memory chips after Samsung, and now Infineon of Germany is poised to go ahead of Hynix for the third-place position. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (92%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (85%); WOORI BANK CO LTD (67%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HYNIX SEMICONDUCTOR; KOREA EXCHANGE BANK; MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC 

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (92%); 000660 (KSE) (92%); MU (NASDAQ) (85%); 004940 (KSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (66%) NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



452 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Mugabe Takes Office Again, Appealing for National Unity 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe, March 17 

 BODY:
President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe was sworn in today for another six-year term, after being declared the winner of the most contentious election since he came to power in 1980.
 In an inauguration speech full of blunt appeals for African solidarity and predictable criticisms of Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, the country's former colonial power, Mr. Mugabe called for national unity in his polarized country. 
 Behind the scenes, his fellow African leaders are doing their best to help see that happen. The presidents of Nigeria and South Africa, who were conspicuously absent from today's ceremonies, are due in the country on Monday to try to arrange some sort of compromise between Mr. Mugabe's governing party and the opposition Movement for Democratic Change.
Saying the results of the voting, held March 9-11, were rigged, the opposition has rejected Mr. Mugabe's claim of victory, as have many Western nations, including Britain and the United States, both of which boycotted the inauguration.
A coalition government is one solution being floated, but the opposition is skeptical of such an arrangement, and Mr. Mugabe stopped well short of endorsing such a proposal.
"We call upon all, including the M.D.C., to come closer and work together with us, work together with us as we deliberate in Parliament and even outside Parliament," Mr. Mugabe said, referring to the opposition group by its initials, in a speech to thousands of supporters and dignitaries assembled on the grounds of State House here in the capital.
Tendai Biti, a member of Parliament and an opposition leader, dismissed Mr. Mugabe's conciliatory remarks. He said opposition leaders expected to meet with the Nigerian and South African presidents on Monday but have rejected proposals for talks with Mr. Mugabe about a coalition government.
Mr. Biti assailed the region's leaders, who have endorsed Mr. Mugabe's victory. Mr. Biti said the African presidents were trying to give Mr. Mugabe some legitimacy by pressing the opposition to enter negotiations with the government.
"You cannot go to bed with Robert Mugabe given the atrocities of the past two years," said Mr. Biti, referring to the political violence that has occurred. "That's absolutely out and anyone who is suggesting that is an enemy of the true Zimbabwe."
Solving the country's political crisis is a central part of sorting out the country's economic troubles, which are no less profound. Much of Mr. Mugabe's speech today, in fact, focused on the country's economy and his plans for straightening it out.
Coming to the West for help, however, did not seem to be at the top of his list. Zimbabwe is already cut off from nearly all sources of international aid and Mr. Mugabe does not sound eager to make the concessions that would be needed to restart it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe during his swearing-in ceremony yesterday in Harare. Western nations boycotted his inauguration. (Joao Silva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BOYCOTTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ZIMBABWE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INAUGURATIONS 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (71%) CAUVIN, HENRI E; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); ZIMBABWE (95%); AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) ZIMBABWE; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



453 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders Rethinking Strategy on Aid to Poor 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN and TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 17 

 BODY:
To fight global poverty, the United States and its allies have founded dozens of aid agencies, built thousands of dams, roads and schools and spent roughly $1 trillion since World War II.
 But nearly half of the people in the world still live on less than $2 a day, and a fifth survive on $1 or less. Most people in Latin America, the Middle East and Central Asia are poorer than at the cold war's close, despite the fast economic integration of the 1990's. Africans live no longer and have no higher incomes than they did 40 years ago. 
 Now, world leaders say they plan to do something about the lack of success. President Bush and the leaders of 57 other nations will gather here this week to discuss how to help developing countries speed their economic growth. 
Mr. Bush promised on Thursday to increase America's foreign aid budget by 15 percent a year or $5 billion over three years, the first real expansion in more than a decade.
Yet Bush administration officials, European leaders and poverty experts are deeply divided about what went wrong and what to do now. They do not agree about why so many countries remain poor, whether aid has helped or hindered progress or whether to increase aid or change the way it is used.
The debate may delay a solution for the "pre-eminent moral and humanitarian challenge of our age," in the words of a United Nations panel led by Ernesto Zedillo, the former president of Mexico, and including Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary.
Britain and the World Bank want rich countries to double their foreign aid and begin what Gordon Brown, Britain's finance minister, calls a new Marshall Plan to fight poverty. 
Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, persuaded the industrialized countries to promise to cut poverty in half by 2015, a goal he says will require $50 billion a year or more, including tens of billions from the United States.
Proponents of more aid have linked poverty to terrorism and contended that the security of rich nations depends on helping the poor.
"We will not create a safer world with bombs or brigades alone," said the World Bank president, James D. Wolfensohn.
Mr. Bush has also linked poverty and terrorism, saying that "failed states can become havens for terror." But he has taken a very different approach to aid.
While backing huge increases in the military budget, his administration proposes devoting far smaller amounts to combat poverty and AIDS. 
He promises to support more foreign aid eventually, but not until 2004, and then only if recipients meet many conditions. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill wants to revamp the World Bank and to measure the effectiveness of aid before spending more money.
"How do we create a situation so that people become engines of economic progress and not just objects of our pity?" Mr. O'Neill said. He contends that the money of American "plumbers and carpenters" is being squandered on aid, with "precious little to show for it."
Tensions have flared between the United States and Europe on the issue. Mr. O'Neill has held up money for the World Bank's main antipoverty fund until Europe agrees with his proposal to have the bank distribute more aid in the form of grants instead of loans. Mr. O'Neill sees that as a necessary step to make aid more effective. Europeans say they worry that it would eventually cripple the bank's finances.
Even so, some officials say they are optimistic that the threat of terrorism from undeveloped parts of the world has set the stage for the most significant effort to address world poverty since the Bretton Woods conference in 1944, when industrialized nations first committed major resources to help increase world economic growth and the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund were created.
"The rich countries have now clearly accepted that there is no worldwide trickle-down and you have to go out there and channel more resources to the poorer countries," said Jorge Castaneda, Mexico's foreign minister. "This is a very different attitude toward the development process."
Those taking part in the Monterrey conference have already agreed to create "a new partnership between developed and developing countries." The agreement commits poor nations to create and maintain strong legal systems, open markets, full rights for women and workers, low inflation and effective banking regulations -- policies that the rich nations see as crucial for poorer ones to attract private investment and stoke economic growth.
Industrialized countries, in return, pledge to reduce barriers to imports from poor countries, notably farm products and textiles, while writing off more debt and increasing aid.
"Monterrey lays out a big global bargain," said Mark Malloch Brown, administrator of the United Nations Development Program. "If it succeeds it will put development at the heart of global politics."
Alan P. Larson, under secretary of state for economic affairs, said the agreement rightly emphasized the "national responsibility" of poor countries to mobilize their own savings and fix government policies to attract private investment. Domestic savings and international business investment are more important than foreign aid, he said.
The United States and its allies have been doling out aid to help poor nations develop faster since the end of World War II, when President Truman authorized big peacetime aid transfers, beginning with the Marshall Plan for Europe. 
But American aid spending has stagnated at about $10 billion since the end of the cold war. As a percentage of the American economy, it has fallen from nearly 3 percent in 1946 to 0.1 perent today.
In Congress, aid is often criticized as "American taxpayer dollars sent to subsidize the corruption and mismanagement of foreign countries," in the words of the House Republican whip, Tom DeLay of Texas. But since Sept. 11, some leading Republicans have started to support more aid.
Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee, praised Mr. Bush for taking the first steps on increasing aid. But he criticized "some in this administration" for assessing aid "based on some Harvard Business School idea of return on dollars."
"We are not going to get our arms around this terrorist threat," Mr. Hagel said, "if we get all bogged down in the swamp of what didn't work in the past."
President Truman said more than 50 years ago that it was intolerable that "more than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery." But that remains relatively unchanged, with World Bank statistics showing that 2.5 billion people survive on $2 a day or less.
The Bush administration is not alone in worrying that aid itself is not the answer.
Numerous studies have found no real correlation between aid levels and the economic performance of developing countries. China and India, among the most successful, have received little assistance relative to their economic output. African nations have gotten the most aid, but most performed dismally.
William Easterly, a longtime World Bank economist who left the institution last year after sharply criticizing its record of helping poor nations, says foreign aid has produced a gigantic, ever-expanding bureaucracy. "Foreign aid works for everyone except for those whom it was intended to help," Mr. Easterly said.
Mr. O'Neill echoes that criticism, and adds one. He has attacked the business model of the World Bank because it distributes aid mostly in the form of long-term, low-interest loans. Though some countries have grown out of poverty and repaid loans on schedule, others struggle to make payments, which can scare away private investors and force donors to grant debt relief. The bank's lending practices end up driving poor countries "into a ditch," Mr. O'Neill said.
But the World Bank says, and Mr. Bush agrees, that success stories in countries like Uganda and Mozambique, Vietnam and Poland, show that aid can help drive economic growth when developing countries have policies in place like open trade, low inflation and controlled government spending. 
The bank says it has long since overhauled the way it grants aid, to favor nations that have good policies. It contends that most criticisms of its performance are outdated.
Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Center for International Development at Harvard University, also defends many types of aid as urgent and effective. He says the real culprits in mismanaging aid are national aid programs, which still account for about two-thirds of all assistance, not the World Bank. 
European governments subsidize former colonies. The United States favors important allies, like Israel and Egypt. Japan has tied aid to its own exports. Those goals often conflict with the desire to promote long-term growth in the poorest countries, Mr. Sachs says.
There is also a growing consensus that rich countries have been stingy in the face of major disease epidemics. Mr. Sachs helped draft a World Health Organization study that concluded that spending $27 billion more each year to fight infectious diseases -- like AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria -- could save eight million lives a year in the developing world.
"America's long slumber" on aid, he said, is "absolutely shocking."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE COST: Foreign Aid and the Measure of Global Progress"Official development assistance from five countries with the highest contributions. Foreign aid has fallen . . . Graphs tracks foreign aid for Japan, United States, France, Germany, Britain from 1990-2000. . . . and social indicators have improved slightly, but developing countries are far behind the rest of the world. Graphs track infant mortality and life expectancy in both the world and developing countries from 1990-1997. Graph tracks adult illiteracy for developing countries.+*Adjusted for inflation, shown in 2000 dollars.+World illiteracy figures not available.(Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; World Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); TERRORISM (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GORDON BROWN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH; WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (70%) MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



454 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Mideast Role Grows With Plans for Saudi's Visit
Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia agreed to meet with President Bush at his ranch in Texas this spring. Vice President Dick Cheney extended the invitation at a meeting with the prince in Jiddah, the latest indication of the deepening American involvement in the region. A1

American Mediator Presses On
Two attacks in Israel and heavy gunfire in Bethlehem marked the fourth day of Gen. Anthony C. Zinni's diplomacy, but the American envoy appeared to make substantial headway toward brokering a cease-fire. A10

Questions on Slain Archbishop
The killing of Isaias Duarte Cancino, an outspoken archbishop, stunned Colombia. Archbishop Duarte had excommunicated leftist rebels and castigated drug-tainted candidates in elections. Officials hinted that rebels were behind the killing; church officials said drug traffickers may have been responsible. A3

Meeting on Aid Invites Debate
President Bush and the leaders of 57 other nations are to gather in Monterrey, Mexico, to discuss how to help developing countries speed their economic growth. Yet Bush administration officials, European leaders and poverty experts are deeply divided about why so many countries remain poor and whether aid helps progress -- debates that may delay solutions. A3

Post-Coital Pills in Britain
A decision by Britain's largest supermarket to give emergency contraceptives known as the morning-after pills free to teenagers has sharpened a national debate over efforts to curb youth pregnancy. Britain has the highest rate in Western Europe. A9

Indonesia Bans Journalist
The Indonesian government has banned Lindsay Murdoch, a prominent Australian journalist, apparently because of articles that dealt with human rights issues. A8

NATION CHALLENGED A12-15

2 Americans Are Killed In Pakistan Church Attack
Five people, including two Americans, were killed and least 40 people were wounded when two men walked into a Protestant church close to the American Embassy in Islamabad and threw several grenades. The attack appeared to be aimed at the Americans and at the government of President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan. A1

Problems for Nuclear Sensors
Experts on nuclear terrorism say that even the latest detection technologies face forbidding odds. Ultimately, the experts say, all detectors are likely to encounter obstacles imposed by the laws of physics. Nonetheless, the federal government has sharply increased support for research into sensors that could detect nuclear weapons if they fall into the hands of terrorists. A13

Air Patrols Are Reduced
The Bush administration has decided to stop round-the-clock patrols by fighter jets over New York, as well as daily patrols over a rotating group of other major cities, saying the terrorism threat on flights has been sufficiently reduced. Scores of fighters stand ready at 30 bases nationwide, but those numbers are likely to be reduced over the next few months, officials said. A13

NATIONAL A16-22

The Commander in Chief Is Still the Chief Politician
President Bush has built into his schedule a carefully planned routine in which he regularly travels to support Republicans in House, Senate and governor's candidates in crucial contests, many in swing states that Mr. Bush needs to win re-election in 2004. The strategy contrasts with his post-Sept. 11 policy of staying above partisan politics during wartime. A1

Not in the Running
Tipper Gore decided not to enter the race for Senate in Tennessee. In a statement, Mrs. Gore was vague about her reasons and did not rule out seeking office in the future. Representative Bob Clement said he would hold a news conference today to announce whether he would seek the Democratic nomination for the seat being vacated by Senator Fred Thompson, a Republican. A21

Primary Races in Illinois
Three Republicans are locked in a spirited fight for their party's nomination Tuesday to succeed Gov. George Ryan of Illinois, a Republican who has been snarled in a bribery scandal. The primary is giving Democrats hope that their party will win the general election for the first time since the 1970's. A20

Miami Officers Cleared
Fourteen Miami police officers facing federal corruption charges were investigated and cleared of at least 293 accusations of misconduct in an internal investigation. Included in the accusations were witness reports or physical evidence of pistol whippings, broken noses and rape, The Miami Herald reported. Critics said the investigation ignored the accusations to protect officers. A17

Fairness of Tests Is Issue
More than a dozen states are putting graduation exams for high school students into effect in the next three years -- and others are requiring new tests for promotion to the next grade. The debate has become broader and more urgent, with some education experts predicting that new legal challenges, like one filed by an advocacy group under federal disability laws, are inevitable. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Comptroller's Detractors Question His Donations
The donations of people who do business with the state are an issue in H. Carl McCall's candidacy for governor. His detractors have suggested that Mr. McCall solicits donations from people who benefited from decisions he made as the sole trustee of the $112 billion retirement fund. He says the donations do not influence his investment decisions as state comptroller. B1

Good Samaritans Stay Put
Many of the good Samaritans who came to New York to volunteer after the Sept. 11 terror attacks have returned home. But one of the striking aspects of the magnetism of ground zero and the impulses it has ignited, is that a number of the itinerant do-gooders are still here, months after they arrived. Some intend never to leave. B1

Subdued Protests
The opening of a much-debated exhibition at the Jewish Museum featuring Nazi and Holocaust imagery drew a spate of protesters throughout but was generally marked by subdued reflection. B2

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Angioplasty Procedure
A study shows that a new approach to keeping heart arteries flowing smoothly after angioplasty has had encouraging success in early testing, perhaps solving a major shortcoming of the procedure. Doctors released the longest review of the new weapon, the drug-coated stent. In testing on 43 patients over two years, they found it to be 100 percent effective, a rare result. A16

Gene Sequencing
Eugene Chan, a former Harvard medical student, has received United States patent 6,355,420 for what he says is a "totally new way of sequencing that mimics the way that nature reads genetic information." C2

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Early Exits
North Carolina State rallied late to upset the University of Connecticut, 77-74, to advance to the East Regional semifinals of the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament. The University of Cincinnati, the No. 1 seed in the West, was also upset. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

The Past Haunts Andersen
The accounting firm Arthur Andersen misread the gravity of the latest government investigations into its business practices, perhaps because in the past it had usually paid a fine and moved on. A1

Just a Signature Away
The showdown between ABC and CBS over David Letterman, which was just a signature from going in ABC's favor, included among its details a legal misreading by CBS that it held the right to match a competing offer to Mr. Letterman. C1

ABC's gambit has television journalists and other industry observers again wondering whether media conglomerates are still committed to network news and its older audiences, and whether they are willing to allow cable networks to become the lone proprietors of the national newscasts. C1

A Long Read
The Atlantic Monthly plans to run the longest article it has ever published, starting with the July/August issue. C7

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A23

Sylvester Weaver
A longtime innovator in television programming who created NBC's "Today" and "Tonight" shows, he was 93. A23

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Microsoft, back in court again; a chance to reshape the Corps; Verlyn Klinkenborg on riding the demographic wave.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E8
Crossword E7
Weather D12
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CONTRACEPTION (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); PHYSICS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



455 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Doubted as Business, Valuedas Asset, Network News Will Be Hard to Displace

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG and SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
ABC may have failed to lure David Letterman from CBS to replace Ted Koppel's "Nightline." But the network's gambit has served as a rallying point for television journalism and all of its defenders.
 It has also raised questions: Are media conglomerates still committed to network news and its older audiences, which command only bulk rates on Madison Avenue? And are they willing to allow cable networks to become the lone proprietors of the national newscasts, all done on the cheap? Just how endangered is the network news business? 
 The answer to all of the above is that a host of market forces and demographic changes are working against network news as American television has known it. But its dismantling will not be quite as simple as many had envisioned. 
At play is a complicated interdependence among television networks, their stations and their parent companies that is not so easily undone, and which is not without benefits for everyone involved. Also, there is the realization that a further retreat from news could have political consequences for these companies as they seek regulatory easements in Washington. As a result, network executives call predictions of the demise of broadcast news premature, even facile.
Make no mistake, however, Wall Street is applying great pressure on networks to find better business models for their news divisions. And many analysts and shareholders flatly consider the network news business as practiced by CBS and ABC -- without affiliated cable networks -- a poor one.
ABC and CBS, they said, could make significantly more money if they completely gutted their news divisions -- with profits in mind -- and kept only those programs that generated high earnings.
"Economic reality says that ABC, for instance, shouldn't be in the news business at all," said one Wall Street media analyst. "CBS should just be doing '60 Minutes.' '60 Minutes' is great, but do they really need to spend hundreds of millions of dollars at CBS News to do it?"
In times like these, a network news operation can seem a particularly bad business. News costs are high from covering the aftermath of Sept. 11; advertising revenues are low because of the struggling economy.
ABC News, for instance, is estimated to have brought in $500 million of revenue last year. It spent nearly as much, however, and is estimated to have finished the year with less than $30 million of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, known as Ebitda, a commonly used yardstick for media companies. This is the case even though the division made gains with "Good Morning America" and in the evening with "World News Tonight."
CBS News is estimated to have made more than that using the Ebitda calculation, but came nowhere near that of NBC's network news division, which was estimated to have generated more than $225 million in 2001 on more than $700 million of revenue.
Analysts say NBC News was helped not only by the huge profits from the No. 1 "Today" show and the top-rated "Nightly News With Tom Brokaw," but also by the performance of its cable siblings, MSNBC and CNBC. They allowed NBC News to spread its costs while together adding more than $300 million in Ebitda to the balance sheet of the NBC parent, General Electric.
Because of its ties to the cable networks, NBC News can almost be considered to be in a different business than are CBS News and ABC News. (Asked about his news business versus those of ABC and CBS, the NBC chairman, Bob Wright, marveled, "They just have to be under enormous pressure.")
Richard A. Bilotti, head media analyst at Morgan Stanley, said: "There is no legitimate business rationale for a stand-alone broadcast network news group. You need at least one of the two following approaches: either an extremely profitable prime-time franchise or a cable channel that fits well, like the NBC model."
With the proliferation of 24-hour cable news channels, Internet news outlets and, at least as importantly, local television news, viewers simply have fewer reasons to turn to the evening newscasts.
In terms of revenues and earnings the broadcast networks are doing much better in the mornings and in prime time, when they show generally lighter material that does not always require the vast news gathering apparatus used for the 6:30 p.m. broadcasts.
Tom Wolzien, a media analyst at Sanford Bernstein, said, "With aging demographics and lower ratings -- in the middle of a very profitable time for local television stations -- 6:30 is going the way that afternoon newspapers went, which is to say, going."
The things that could conceivably stand in the way of the broadcasts' elimination, analysts said, are inertia and regulatory interests. Without network news, the thinking goes, Viacom and General Electric and the Walt Disney Company, the parents of CBS, NBC and ABC, respectively, could be criticized by politicians for not acting in the public interest, as their licenses require. That could bring added scrutiny or restrictions to their deal-making.
Otherwise, the analysts said, just look at the math: Each network evening newscast takes in upwards of $100 million of revenue. The margins of return vary because earnings are parsed out differently at each network. ABC's "World News Tonight," for instance, supports a large share of its news division's costs and ended 2001 with an estimated $20 million of Ebitda.
A solidly performing syndicated entertainment program could make far more for the parent companies. Disney, for instance, owns 10 ABC stations. Each could conceivably earn up to $5 million a year showing syndicated entertainment programming between 6:30 and 7 p.m., adding up to more than $50 million. Expected regulatory changes will allow companies like Disney to buy far more stations, perhaps increasing the motivation to replace the evening news with syndicated entertainment, some analysts said.
By that reasoning, a more modern model might be Fox. Its stations make a healthy profit showing syndicated entertainment programs when their competitors show the national evening newscasts. The Fox stations provide local news in the mornings and late evenings. "Local stations have taken the whole sense of localism, whether urgency or reflective, and they've captured that," said Mitchell Stern, chairman and chief executive of Fox Television Stations.
Fox's parent, the News Corporation, is meanwhile building a healthy national news business on cable with the Fox News Channel, which is expected to generate $100 million of Ebitda during the News Corporation's current fiscal year on about $300 million in revenue.
Both ABC and CBS, of course, did not take the cable route, a fact that often pains their news executives. Still, these executives said pure financial analyses lose sight of other important reasons to keep the evening newscasts -- and the news gathering infrastructures.
"If I wanted to put on Tonya Harding boxing, it would do better than Dan Rather financially," said Leslie Moonves, the CBS Television president, referring to a Fox special last week. "Yes, profit is very important, we're part of Viacom and my job is to make a profit. But we still are a public trust."
Dan Rather, he said, helps distinguish CBS from its competitors. The news division also helps keep regulators off of Viacom's back and gives the network political clout, but Mr. Moonves denies those are factors.
Yet there are more tangible arguments for maintaining the evening newscasts. Mr. Rather raises the profile and stature of the local news programs of CBS-owned-and-affiliated stations -- just as Peter Jennings does for ABC stations and Mr. Brokaw does for NBC stations. Those local stations can make more than 40 percent of their revenues on news.
Where the national anchors are strong, they help keep the ratings high for the local news programs that run before their broadcasts -- no small thing.
Network news executives said the erosion in the evening news ratings are often exaggerated. The ABC, CBS and NBC newscasts reached more than 70 percent of the audience 20 years ago; now, they reach roughly 45 percent. By today's standards, however, that is still a large share -- slightly larger than those networks' share in prime time. Whether the successors to Mr. Jennings, Mr. Brokaw and Mr. Rather will maintain those ratings is an open question.
For now, one news executive said, if a network pulled out of the time period it would risk handing a huge audience to its competitors. 
Andrew Heyward, the CBS News president, said another overlooked benefit of news programming is that it is a consistent draw. Entertainment is far riskier. "There's nothing like a mega-entertainment hit," he said. "But if you put a news magazine against an average entertainment show, we compare very favorably."
Wall Street analysts acknowledge the strength of news programming in prime time and in the mornings -- even the third-place "Early Show" is generating a fair profit for CBS. What they question is the need to maintain far-flung news operations. Diane Sawyer's prime-time special last week -- in which the talk show host Rosie O'Donnell discussed being a gay parent -- did very well in the ratings and did not exactly need help from ABC's London bureau.
Those sorts of questions have created pressure for CBS and ABC to find partners to help support news gathering costs -- and led both in the past to negotiate with CNN as a possible news-gathering contractor.
Even if the network news divisions survive, the question remains: at what cost? They have significantly cut the number of overseas bureaus and are relying heavily on dispatches from bureaus in London. ABC News had 17 foreign bureaus 15 years ago. It has seven now. CBS has said it had similarly cut back, and NBC said it maintained a presence in 17 foreign sites but had significantly reduced its overseas staff. 
The corporate parents say they understand the importance of their news divisions -- but within the confines of economic reality.
"You have to remember, the tension existing between the corporation and news division is not something new -- it's a fact of life," said Robert A. Iger, the president of Disney. "The news division gets everything in terms of journalistic independence."
He added, "But not in terms of business independence."

GRAPHIC: Photo: During the heyday of network news broadcasts, Chet Huntley, left, and David Brinkley reported from a national political convention in 1956. (pg. C6) Chart: "The Way It Was"Since 1970, as the three main broadcast networks have used various anchors for their evening newscasts, the programs have attracted a dwindling share of the television viewing audience. CBSWalter Cronkite -- '62-'81Dan Rather -- '81-presentConnie Chung -- '93-'95 NBCChet Huntley -- '56-'70David Brinkley -- '56-'71, '76-'79Frank McGee -- '70-'71Roger Mudd -- '82-'83John Chancellor -- '70-'82Tom Brokaw -- '82-present ABCHoward K. Smith -- '70-'74Barbara Walters -- '76-'78Frank Reynolds, Max Robinson -- '78-'83Harry Reasoner -- '70-'78Peter Jennings -- '78-present Graph tracking the television viewing audience of the three main broadcast networks evening newscasts since 1970. Average percentage of all households with television sets turned on*2001-2002 season is Sept. 24, 2001 to Feb. 28, 2002 (Sources: Nielsen Media Research; the networks)(pg. C1) Chart: "Turning to Cable News"While broadcast networks re-evalute their nightly newscasts, the audiences are growing for the three main cable news networks. AVERAGE NUMBER OF VIEWERS PER SEASON (IN THOUSANDS) SEASON CNN'01-'02: 789'00-'01: 497'99-'00: 316'98-'99: 488'97-'98: 426 FOX'01-'02: 735'00-'01: 370'99-'00: 137'98-'99: 114'97-'98: 53 MSNBC'01-'02: 435'00-'01: 300'99-'00: 166'98-'99: 173'97-'98: 113 (Source: Nielsen Media Research)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); EBITDA (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%) TELEVISION; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC; CBS CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (90%); BARBARA WALTERS (59%) RUTENBERG, JIM; SCHIESEL, SETH; LETTERMAN, DAVID; KOPPEL, TED 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: LATE SHOW WITH DAVID LETTERMAN (TV PROGRAM); NIGHTLINE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



456 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Hynix's Creditors Agree To Yield Control to Micron
The creditors responsible for the immediate fate of Hynix Semiconductor of South Korea appeared to have overcome major hurdles on the way to an agreement to yield control of the company to Micron Technology.
 Under an agreement in principle, Micron would purchase all the Hynix memory chip factories and would acquire a minimum of 20 percent of Hynix's nonmemory operations for a total of $4 billion. Micron would form Korea Micron Inc., which together with its Micron Technology operations would make Micron the world's largest manufacturer of memory chips. Page C2. 

Atlantic Plans Book-Length Article
The Atlantic Monthly plans to run the longest piece of journalism it has ever published, and one of the longest in magazine history. The article, "American Ground: Unbuilding the World Trade Center," by a staff correspondent, William Langewiesche, left, will stretch over three issues, starting with July/ August, and amount to 60,000 words. C7.

Opposition to Portable Numbers
Wireless telephone companies are supposed to install technology by late November that will let customers keep their phone numbers when changing carriers. But the Federal Communications Commission is considering a petition by Verizon Wireless to drop that requirement -- or at least delay the deadline. The F.C.C. is expected to make a decision as early as this week. New Economy. C3.

Online Travel Agents Expand Offline
Online travel companies, most notably Expedia, are slowly growing roots in the offline travel world, while also exploring avenues like televised shopping for travel. The $48 million acquisition last week by Expedia of Classic Custom Vacations, analysts said, is just the latest move in the multichannel direction. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

A Big Purchase in Italian Energy
A Fiat-led consortium including Electricite de France became the second-largest electricity provider in Italy after buying a generating company of the energy producer Enel for 2.98 billion euros, or $2.63 billion. The generating company, Eurogen, is the largest of three that Enel, a former monopoly, has had to sell. C2.

Polaroid's Whimsical Ad Campaign
Polaroid, the once-radiant corporate icon, may be struggling to emerge from bankruptcy, but it has begun a new $20 million advertising campaign. The whimsical commercial, aimed at a youthful audience, promotes its instant cameras and films. Advertising. C8.

A Patent for Gene Sequencing
This month Eugene Chan, 28, received a United States patent for what he says is a "totally new way of sequencing that mimics the way that nature reads genetic information." With his brother, Ian, Mr. Chan started a company called U.S. Genomics, which has raised $25 million in venture capital. Its scientific advisory board includes Louis Kunkel, a professor of pediatrics and genetics at Harvard Medical School, and Alexander Rich, a pioneer in molecular biology. C2.

Russia to Extend Oil Export Cuts
Russia said it planned to extend until June the oil export reductions it introduced at the start of the year under pressure from OPEC to shore up sliding prices. C5.

German Utility Nears $4 Billion Deal
RWE, the large German utility, is near a deal to acquire Innogy of Britain for more than $:3 billion ($4.3 billion), people close to the companies said. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,607.23 UP 34.74Nasdaq composite -- 1,868.30 DOWN 61.3710-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.33% Unch.The euro -- $0.8825 UP 0.0086The dollar -- 129.18 yen UP 0.80

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (87%); GENOMICS (84%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); PATENTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); BIOLOGY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); PETITIONS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (64%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (63%); BIOCHEMISTRY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (60%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); CLASSIC CUSTOM VACATIONS (53%); ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%)

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (92%); 000660 (KSE) (92%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); EDF (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (53%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (53%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (75%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



457 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2346 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
How ABC's Full-Court Press Almost Landed Letterman

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
At 6:15 on Feb. 27, a frigid evening in Manhattan, Robert A. Iger, the president of the Walt Disney Company and Lloyd Braun, the chairman of ABC Entertainment, stood in the street outside David Letterman's offices in the Ed Sullivan Theater on Broadway.
 In the bracing wind, Mr. Iger was still wearing the windbreaker he had thrown on when he hurriedly left Los Angeles hours earlier, and without gloves, his hands were freezing. The two men had no appointment; they had just showed up at Mr. Letterman's door hoping for an impromptu meeting, one last touch that might make a favorable impression on the "Late Show" star. 
 They had reason to be optimistic. 
ABC had everything in place to steal David Letterman away from CBS -- except a signature. Mr. Letterman had in his office a contract, agreed-upon in all details by his production company and ABC.
If Mr. Letterman had picked up a pen and signed his name on that contract, CBS would have been looking for a new late-night star.
Ten days later, Mr. Letterman re-signed with CBS. His decision ended an aggressive wooing by ABC that came close to success, close enough for CBS executives to believe on several occasions that they were in danger of blowing the deal, and close enough that top ABC executives were convinced, to the end, that they would prevail.
The showdown to win Mr. Letterman is a tale that includes among its important events a legal misreading by CBS that it held the right to match a competing offer to Mr. Letterman; a careful and eventually untenable balancing act by ABC of its desire to win Mr. Letterman and its desire not to alienate the man he would have replaced, Ted Koppel of "Nightline"; a late but critical series of negotiating maneuvers by Leslie Moonves, the CBS Television president; and inquiries by CBS to determine whether Conan O'Brien, the NBC late-night star, might be available to replace Mr. Letterman at CBS.
The full-court-press intensity of ABC's campaign to win Mr. Letterman was perhaps most evident on that Wednesday, Feb. 27. With the ABC contract finished and in Mr. Letterman's hands, while no completed contract from CBS had yet been delivered, the issue was at a critical stage. Or so Mr. Braun, the chief architect of ABC's strategy, had concluded that morning in his office in Burbank, Calif.
Mr. Braun had already done all he could think of to win Mr. Letterman, including promising to refurbish any of three theaters in Manhattan for Mr. Letterman to work in; or if the star preferred, to update an ABC studio on West 66th Street to a highly sophisticated level of technology. Mr. Braun had personally led members of Mr. Letterman's production staff on a tour of the studio.
Still, unsettled about never having even met Mr. Letterman, Mr. Braun that morning asked Mr. Iger to drop everything and fly with him to New York to try to see Mr. Letterman. Mr. Iger readily agreed.
Now having flown across the country, the two men found themselves waiting in the cold. They were told Mr. Letterman was on stage taping his show, and it would be at least 15 to 20 minutes before he was available. So they crossed Broadway to kill some time in a coffee shop.
After a wait of more than two hours, during which they closed down the coffee shop, bought an Xbox video game in an electronics store, running gloves to cover Mr. Iger's freezing fingers in a Foot Locker store and a cheesecake for Mr. Letterman in a pastry shop, the two executives finally got their meeting. It lasted an hour.
Mr. Letterman was gracious, thanking ABC for its efforts. Mr. Braun and Mr. Iger left believing they had achieved much, and perhaps were on the brink of taking the prize they had avidly pursued throughout February: a star who would represent a huge increase in their late-night profits.
Nor, apparently, were they wrong. "The meeting had a big impact," said Rob Burnett, the president of Mr. Letterman's production company, Worldwide Pants. "It really enhanced ABC's position. It put a face on the deal."
Mr. Letterman, telling his associates he needed time to think, left two days later for a vacation in St. Bart's, his future destination still up for grabs.
That the negotiation even reached that point was, in the words of one of Mr. Letterman's representatives, "totally shocking to us," because it meant that CBS had squandered a huge advantage and could no longer prevent Mr. Letterman from leaving -- and leaving a big hole in their schedule every weeknight at 11:35.
CBS and the Letterman side had begun a 45-day exclusive negotiating period on Dec. 5. If at the conclusion of the negotiating period the Letterman side submitted its last and best proposal to CBS and the network did not assent, the show would be free to solicit offers elsewhere.
Things went sour from the beginning, executives involved in the talks said. CBS's first proposal struck Mr. Letterman's representatives as a slap in the face -- amounting to a substantial percentage cut in the fees for Mr. Letterman and the show.
"It was insane," one of Mr. Letterman's representatives said. "It was positioning, but still we were offended."
Meanwhile, CBS took umbrage at the first Letterman proposal because it demanded control of the future of the the time period even after Mr. Letterman retired.
ABC was already monitoring the situation. Mr. Braun, aware of the friction between Mr. Letterman and CBS, predicted to his ABC colleagues that CBS would not conclude a deal in the exclusive period.
The 45 days stretched out with little movement. The Letterman side said CBS's apparent strategy baffled them.
"We were convinced their lack of response meant they had a plan based on three conclusions," a Letterman representative said. "Dave would never pull up stakes and leave; nobody else would be interested; or CBS retained a matching right in the contract. They were wrong on all three counts."
The matching-right issue turned out to be a major setback for CBS. The exclusive negotiating period -- lengthened by holidays -- ended Jan. 29, the day the Letterman side made its last, best proposal. CBS declined.
"They said we were too far apart," a Letterman representative said. "They said we had 30 days to solicit other offers, and 'We have a right to match.' We said, 'No, you don't.' "
The deal CBS struck with Mr. Letterman to woo him originally in 1993 had left out that clause, a point CBS ultimately conceded. "We were in jeopardy there," Mr. Moonves said. "There was great agitation."
ABC and the Letterman side were soon in contact, though neither side will say who called first. The talks went on a fast track.
Early the next week, Mr. Moonves put in a call to check on the status of Mr. O'Brien. "I spoke to a few people," he said. "I was still optimistic that we'd keep Dave, but it's dumb not to be prepared."
Mr. O'Brien was close to finishing a new deal with NBC and decided not to jump into the CBS situation, at least partly, associates said, because he did not want to be used as leverage against Mr. Letterman.
Mr. Letterman, meanwhile, was sensitive about being seen as pushing out "Nightline." His representatives asked ABC to clarify its position on the future of the show.
For ABC, the question was extremely delicate. Neither David Westin, the president of ABC News, nor Mr. Koppel knew ABC was chasing Mr. Letterman. Mr. Iger called both men "trusted colleagues," but he knew there was a risk of ruining ABC's chances if the negotiations became public.
"The corporation has been enormously encouraging and supportive of the news division," Mr. Iger said, citing numerous decisions Disney had made to back ABC News with money for programming and the hiring of new people.
But he knew secrets are seldom safe in a television news division. "I've been around," he said.
ABC did give the Letterman side assurances that Mr. Letterman would not be cast as the cause of change in "Nightline's" status. Mr. Braun said he made the point that the future of "Nightline" had been discussed inside ABC for some time. "I told them that the 'Nightline' people knew they did not have that time period in perpetuity," Mr. Braun said.
The Letterman people heard a far stronger point being made. "They told us, 'We are getting someone else for the time slot,' " Mr. Burnett said. "I heard that myself."
Late in February, Mr. Moonves, concerned about the way things were going, became more personally involved. He responded to an opening provided by Peter Lassally, a longtime close adviser to Mr. Letterman, and he reached out to Mr. Burnett. Mr. Lassally urged Mr. Moonves to be more receptive to the Letterman requests in areas like publicity and promotion, and simply to make accommodating gestures. He did so. His talks with Mr. Burnett became open and more cordial.
"CBS was stepping up," Mr. Burnett said. For its part, Worldwide Pants scaled back its plans to keep control of the 11:35 time period to a request that it be given first crack at producing a new show after Mr. Letterman's retirement.
Money had never been a sticking point. "We had agreed on the figures for weeks," Mr. Moonves said. CBS would pay Mr. Letterman $31.5 million a year, up 5 percent from his previous deal.
The news of ABC's overtures to Mr. Letterman broke in The New York Times on March 1, and a firestorm erupted over the fate of "Nightline." Initially, the Letterman side welcomed the published comments from ABC, concluding that they indicated that the network was indeed planning to find a new time slot for "Nightline."
And ABC executives felt they could use their willingness to stand up to the criticism to advantage with the Letterman side. "Here we were, taking bazooka shots," one ABC executive said. "We're getting pounded in the press, bullets are flying all around us and we're still walking toward Dave, with our arms out, saying 'We love you, Dave, we love you!' "
But Mr. Iger found himself dealing with anger in the ABC news division. He flew across the country again to meet with Mr. Koppel to state his support and to apologize for quotations from ABC executives that he said represented a view about "Nightline" that was "far too radical."
While defending the company for seeking Mr. Letterman, Mr. Iger said it was only for so extraordinary a talent that any change for "Nightline" was being contemplated.
Those comments also had fallout. Some members of the Letterman team interpreted ABC's reaction as backtracking. Mr. Burnett said, "As the story played out, it became clear to us that we were in fact impacting 'Nightline.' "
How much the "Nightline" imbroglio affected Mr. Letterman's thinking is not clear. Mr. Burnett said that he called the star only twice in the nine days he was away but that they did discuss the attention the story was stirring up, a fact that amazed Mr. Letterman, Mr. Burnett said. In the end, he said, "The 'Nightline' thing was not the only factor in why we decided what we decided, but it was a factor."
Mr. Letterman did convey one message clearly from his retreat in St. Bart's. "He did not want to drag this thing out," Mr. Burnett said.
Knowing a decision was likely when Mr. Letterman returned to work last Monday, both sides pursued endgame strategies. That morning David F. Poltrack, CBS's executive vice president of research, offered an elaborate pro-CBS ratings analysis. ABC countered with its biggest player. Michael Eisner, the Disney chairman, called Mr. Letterman from Europe. The conversation was brief and pleasant, both sides reported. Then Letterman executives took a trip to ABC's headquarters to listen to one last ABC research presentation.
After breaking down all the numbers himself, Mr. Burnett declared them "essentially a wash."
On Monday afternoon, Mr. Braun and Mr. Iger were back in New York, counting down the hours, growing ever more confident. "I really thought it was ours," Mr. Iger said. At CBS, Mr. Moonves was also confident, though still on edge. "There were butterflies," he said. "But throughout the process I never once thought our chances were any worse than 50-50."
Late in the afternoon, Mr. Braun and Mr. Iger gave up trying to work. They left ABC's headquarters, walked awhile, then caught a cab and took it to Madison Avenue, where again Mr. Iger got in a little shopping.
At 68th and Madison, Mr. Braun's cellphone rang. Mr. Iger watched his facial expressions. Mr. Braun shook his head and mouthed: "CBS." Rob Burnett was on the line, but Mr. Braun did not hear anything else. "I was in such shock," he said.
At CBS, Mr. Moonves got a call minutes later. The Letterman group was on the line congratulating him. He was elated. A short time later Mr. Moonves made his way to the Sullivan theater, where he watched a tape of Mr. Letterman's performance that night. Then he went in to see the star, the first time in the entire process he had spoken to him.
"Dave said he was very relieved and thankful and happy," Mr. Moonves said. "We truly did have a great meeting, unbelievably good. I referred to his monologue where he said we're a family and we have fistfights. I said we really are a family, but we're not going to have fistfights anymore. Dave said, 'Hold on a minute, I promise you we will have fistfights.' I said it takes two to fight and I'm not going to fight."
After making calls to break the news, first to Mr. Eisner, then to Mr. Westin and then to Mr. Koppel -- the last conversation had "a somber quality to it," Mr. Iger said -- Mr. Iger went home to his New York apartment, feeling totally let down. "I hadn't felt that way since ABC lost the Olympics," he said.
"But I don't have any second thoughts or misgivings," he said. "This was David Letterman, for goodness sakes, and the economic issues were extremely compelling. I think we would have deserved criticism if we hadn't tried to get him."
Mr. Braun, feeling completely miserable, had to go off on a long walk by himself. He went for dinner alone to Shun Lee Palace and, over Chinese food, replayed every move in the game.
The next day Mr. Braun flew home to Los Angeles. That evening he sat down with his children. He said, "I told them how important it is to try and not be afraid to fail."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Letterman told his "Late Show" audience last week that he would stay on CBS despite being wooed by ABC. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); ROBERT A. IGER -- The president of Walt Disney flew in from California seeking an impromptu meeting with Mr. Letterman. (Reuters); LESLIE MOONVES -- The president of CBS Television eventually became more personally involved in negotiations. (Associated Press); ROB BURNETT -- Mr. Letterman's executive producer said the effect on "Nightline" and Ted Koppel became an issue. (CBS)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); THEATER (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%) TELEVISION; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC; CBS CORP; DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (94%); ROBERT A IGER (91%); LESLIE MOONVES (58%); CONAN O'BRIEN (57%) CARTER, BILL; LETTERMAN, DAVID; IGER, ROBERT A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: LATE SHOW WITH DAVID LETTERMAN (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



458 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Bush Traveling Campaign Trail And a Warpath 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17 

 BODY:
Determined not to allow the expanding war on terrorism to distract him from politics at home, President Bush has plunged into the 2002 midterm elections so aggressively that many Republicans say he is rivaling Bill Clinton in his intense focus on electoral campaigning.
 Since the beginning of the year, when Mr. Bush abandoned the no-politics-during-wartime policy that he put in place after Sept. 11, the president has collected an average of $1 million a week for Republican candidates or the party. He has built into his schedule a carefully planned routine in which he travels, often twice a week, to support candidates in crucial House, Senate and governor's contests, many in states that Mr. Bush needs to win re-election in 2004. 
 The White House has broken tradition in many races by taking sides in primaries, like the one for governor in California, even to the point of pressing Republicans to abandon candidacies the White House considers unpromising. 
Mr. Bush "will campaign in a positive and respectful tone that talks about what his party is for -- not what we're against," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, adding that the president had no qualms about campaigning in wartime. "The American people understand that as we go on in life, democracy continues."
As part of an all-out campaign to regain Republican control of the Senate, Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have personally prodded candidates into running. Representative John Thune in South Dakota and Norm Coleman in Minnesota are among them. Just two hours before a news conference last spring at which Tim Pawlenty planned to announce his intention to run against Mr. Coleman, a former mayor of St. Paul, in the Senate primary, Mr. Pawlenty received an urgent call from Mr. Cheney imploring him, he said, to quit the race.
"The gist of it was that Coleman's more well known and a stronger candidate," said Mr. Pawlenty, the majority leader of the Minnesota House. "I don't take it as a bullying maneuver. It was an appeal to do what's good for the party and for the president. But the implicit suggestion was that they're going to bring the assets they have to help Coleman -- and they are pretty formidable."
Mr. Pawlenty immediately pulled out and decided to run for governor.
White House officials said they were confident of retaining control of the House because of the rebounding economy and Mr. Bush's sustained popularity from the war. As a result, Mr. Bush's advisers said, there is a particular emphasis on winning back the Senate, where the prospects are not as clear.
The White House is also working to contain losses of governorships, which are vital to helping Mr. Bush's re-election drive in 2004, since a governor controls a state's political machinery.
"There's a big resource advantage," Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, said of prospects of keeping the House. "You've got an issue advantage and a redistricting advantage. So we're in a good position."
Sounding less certain about the Senate, Mr. Mehlman said: "While it's early, we're optimistic because we've got a fabulous group of candidates. That's the first step."
Mr. Mehlman insisted that the White House had not been paying more attention to the Senate. But other White House advisers disagreed.
"They're infatuated with the Senate," said one strategist close to the White House. "It's a totally command focus."
When Mr. Bush began campaigning again in January, he was careful not to appear too political or partisan. But in recent weeks, he has grown increasingly comfortable pressing the Republican cause and taking on the Democrats by obvious implication.
On Friday, in a speech to a thundering crowd of Army soldiers and civilians near Fort Bragg, N.C., Mr. Bush demanded that Congress pass his military budget as its "first order of business." Although he did not mention Senate Democrats who are likely to delay approval to seek concessions on domestic spending, he did not have to. "Now is not the time to play politics with the defense budget," Mr. Bush warned.
At nearly every stop, Mr. Bush devotes at least 10 minutes to a well-practiced war speech that repeats the highlights of his major addresses since Sept. 11. The crowds sit rapt, then roar with approval.
"We were attacked by a ruthless enemy, who must not have understood America," Mr. Bush said in typical remarks to employees of a computer parts distributor in St. Petersburg, Fla., this month. "They must have thought we were soft and so incredibly materialistic and self-absorbed that we would not find the will to fight and sacrifice for that which we hold dear. And they have made a huge miscalculation!"
Democrats have not failed to notice the frequency and political appeal of Mr. Bush's war talk. 
"Tell Karl Rove to cool it," Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, chided Secretary of State Colin L. Powell last week at a hearing on Capitol Hill. "I know he's trying to keep the war fires burning until November."
Even many Republicans said they were surprised at how aggressive this White House was politically. Part of the reason, they said, was that Mr. Rove, the architect of Mr. Bush's victory, has a crucial political and policy role in the West Wing.
"Karl's being in the administration was a pretty strong signal from the beginning that there was always going to be a strong political dimension to their activities," said Tom Cole, a former chief of staff to the Republican National Committee. "I used to think of Ronald Reagan as the great party president. George Bush is certainly comparable. The White House political shop is more focused than any one I've seen."
Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, who works closely with the White House, agreed. "I don't think anybody thought he'd come anywhere close to being as aggressive as Clinton was in traveling around the country."
Bill Dal Col, a Republican strategist who ran Steve Forbes's presidential campaign, said: "In the Clinton White House, it was in your face, blatantly political. This is a more professional approach that comes off as nonpolitical, even if it is as political -- or more so."
White House officials do not dispute that they are as politically attuned as the last administration. But they insist that the approach was different.
"This is not some guy spending his time worried about the nuts and bolts of campaigns," Mr. Mehlman said.
Even if Mr. Bush is staying upbeat, his lieutenants are not. Mr. Cheney has attacked Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, as an obstructionist. The National Republican Senatorial Committee recently ran television commercials against five Senate Democrats that implicitly questioned their patriotism -- and featured clips of Mr. Bush. Although Mr. Bartlett said the White House did not know of the advertisements -- "we can't control everything" -- White House officials would not say whether it had been a mistake for the committee to run them.
White House efforts go far beyond the mechanics of raising money and helping candidates. The president has sought to broaden his support by making overtures to labor groups that traditionally back Democrats. He has also worked to deny Democrats -- and Republicans like Senator John McCain of Arizona -- a reform agenda by announcing his intention to sign a campaign finance bill. He has also made a point of praising one of the most liberal senators, Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, for his support of an education bill.
At the same time, Mr. Bush has sought to keep conservatives content by pressing most recently, though unsuccessfully, for confirmation of Judge Charles W. Pickering Sr. to an appeals court post.
Some Republicans said they were convinced of the White House preoccupation with the 2002 and 2004 campaigns when Mr. Bush made a refueling stop in Alaska -- and collected $400,000 for the state party -- en route to Asia last month. While in the state, Mr. Bush pushed for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, praised the labor leaders who support him on the issue and took an oblique swipe at Democrats who disagree with him.
Ronald Kaufman, who was White House political director for Mr. Bush's father, said: "I tried a couple of times to get that done in Alaska or wherever and never accomplished it. There's a different mentality now. These guys are smarter. They're just much more focused."
An important reason for such focus is that Mr. Bush has made clear that he does not want to repeat the mistakes of his father, whose supporters have long groused that he undermined his own re-election by refusing to turn serious attention to politics until his last year in office.
For all the attention to politics, this White House has not been altogether successful. In four of the highest-profile political events over the last year, the White House has failed. Senator James M. Jeffords defected last spring from the Republicans, leaving the Senate to turn Democratic. Republicans lost governorships last fall in New Jersey and Virginia, and this month, the White House favorite for governor of California, Richard J. Riordan, lost by a huge margin to Bill Simon Jr., a political neophyte, in the Republican primary.
Despite those setbacks, many Republicans say the White House enters this election season in a far more commanding position than former Presidents Bush, Clinton and Reagan did in their midterm years. Stuart Stevens, one of Mr. Bush's media advisers during the campaign, said the war had helped immeasurably.
"Before 9/11, the thread to the Democrats message was that in one way or another the president isn't up to the job," Mr. Stevens said. "Now that's going to be an impossible message."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In North Carolina last week, Representative Mike McIntyre and Elizabeth Dole greeted President Bush at the Fayetteville airport. Mr. Bush met with nearby troops but also took an interest in Mrs. Dole's Senate race. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A20) Chart: "Hitting the Trail"Since early January, the Bush White House has become aggressively involved in the political fortunes of Republicans around the country. Domestic Trips This YearMany of President Bush's trips this year have been to states with races for governor, House or Senate, or states seen as important for Mr. Bush's chances for re-election in 2004. Combining Public Events and Fund-raisersMany of Mr. Bush's recent trips have combined events to promote issues on the White House's domestic agenda with fund-raisers for state parties and politicians the White House hopes to see elected. This list does not include fund-raising events in Washington that have featured Mr. Bush. DATE: Feb. 6WHERE: New YorkISSUE PROMOTED: Domestic security, $20 billion aid commitment to New York CityFUND-RAISING: $1.5 million at two events for Gov. George E. Pataki. DATE: Feb. 11WHERE: MilwaukeeISSUE PROMOTED: Health care proposalsFUND-RAISING: $1 million for Gov. Scott McCallum. DATE: Feb. 16WHERE: Anchorage, en route to AsiaISSUE PROMOTED: Energy legislationFUND-RAISING: $400,000 for Alaska Republican Party. DATE: Feb. 27WHERE: Charlotte, N.C.ISSUE PROMOTED: Changes to welfare lawsFUND-RAISING: $1 million for North Carolina Republican Party, and an endorsement of Elizabeth Dole's Senate candidacy. DATE: March 1WHERE: Des MoinesISSUE PROMOTED: Retirement securityFUND-RAISING: $475,000 for Iowa Republican Party and Representative Tom Latham, who is in a difficult re-election campaign. DATE: March 4WHERE: MinneapolisISSUE PROMOTED: Training of teachersFUND-RAISING: $2 million for Minnesota Republican Party and Norm Coleman, former mayor of St. Paul, who is running against Senator Paul Wellstone, a Democrat who is one of the Senate's most liberal members. DATE: March 8WHERE: St. Petersburg, Fla.ISSUE PROMOTED: Corporate responsibilityFUND-RAISING: $750,000 for Florida Republican Party, which pays Gov. Jeb Bush's re-election campaign expenses. DATE: March 18*WHERE: St. LouisISSUE PROMOTED: Growth incentives for small businessFUND-RAISING: $1,000- and $20,000-a-person fund-raiser scheduled for Missouri Republican Party and Senate campaign of Jim Talent, who is running against Jean Carnahan in a race seen as highly competitive. (pg. A20) Map of the United States highlighting trips with public events this year. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); AIRLINES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) ELECTIONS; TERRORISM; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; STATES (US); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); NORM COLEMAN (89%); ELIZABETH DOLE (88%); TIM PAWLENTY (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); JOHN THUNE (58%); TOM LATHAM (58%); MIKE MCINTYRE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002 



459 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: California Is Tightening Rules on H.I.V. Care 

BYLINE:  By DAVID TULLER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 18 

 BODY:
Managed care plans in California will be required to refer H.I.V. patients to doctors certified as AIDS specialists under regulations scheduled to take effect in July, making the state the first to impose such a requirement on private health insurers.
 Studies have shown that H.I.V. patients fare best when treated by doctors who have experience with the virus. But there is no broadly accepted definition of what constitutes expertise in H.I.V., so health plans have generally been left to devise their own standards, which vary widely. 
 "We have to treat people with this disease on a par with other diseases," said Daniel Zingale, director of California's Department of Managed Health Care, which developed the new regulations. "If you have cancer, you see an oncologist. If you have H.I.V., you should get to see an H.I.V. specialist." 
Managing H.I.V. infection has become much more complicated since the advent of effective pharmaceutical "cocktails" six years ago. Doctors now have dozens of drug combinations at their disposal, each with its own potential benefits, side effects and other complications. The new regulations define a specialist as someone who has cared for at least 20 H.I.V. patients in the past two years and has demonstrated an understanding of recent developments in the field through testing, continuing medical education or other means.
Advocates for people with AIDS have applauded the new rules and expect them to influence the debate in other states. Julia Hidalgo, president of Positive Outcomes, a Maryland-based consulting firm specializing in the economics of H.I.V. care, said AIDS activists and doctors elsewhere would carefully monitor the situation. "If this appears to be expanding access to experienced H.I.V. care, then I think both consumers and clinicians in other states will be able to take that experience to their own legislatures and point to it," she said.
She and others also hope the move will help address the growing financial problems confronting H.I.V. doctors in private practice. Managed care plans generally pay primary care physicians the same flat monthly fee for every patient no matter how healthy or sick. That means doctors often receive no more for treating H.I.V. patients who require extensive care than they receive for someone who comes in once a year with the flu, although a handful of states increase Medicaid reimbursement rates for people with H.I.V. and AIDS.
Dr. Scott Hitt, president of the American Academy of H.I.V. Medicine, based in Los Angeles, said the new regulations offered physicians a strong bargaining tool to negotiate better reimbursement rates.
"The plans will have to compensate H.I.V. specialists at a rate that allows them to stay in business, because the insurance company is liable," said Dr. Hitt, whose organization's criteria for defining a specialist have been incorporated into the new regulations.
The H.I.V. Medicine Association, an advocacy group created under the umbrella of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, a physicians' association, has endorsed the thrust of the California regulations. But it is requesting changes that would reduce the required number of credits in continuing medical education and make it easier for infectious disease specialists to qualify.
Two years ago the state required managed care plans to include H.I.V. specialists in their provider networks, but did not outline any qualifications. Mr. Zingale says his department has received complaints from patients that their health care plans were not referring them to doctors qualified to treat H.I.V.
The AIDS Healthcare Foundation, a Los Angeles-based organization that operates H.I.V. clinics, sued PacifiCare Health Systems last year, claiming that the company was making it hard for patients to see knowledgeable specialists. "The patients would really have to jump through hoops to get an appointment, and there were people who ended up giving up," said Tom Myers, the foundation's general counsel.
PacifiCare dismisses the accusations as baseless and says it is committed to the concept of access to specialists. "Clearly we feel that this case is without merit," said a spokesman, Tyler Mason. The lawsuit is unresolved.
Mr. Mason added that the company had misgivings about the new regulations. He expressed concern that qualified physicians might be hard to find in rural areas and that the requirement for continuing medical education could force doctors to forgo training in other important subjects. The company has also requested that the regulations not take effect until next year.
Mr. Zingale said he would consider requests to fine-tune the regulations but would not back down on the July date for putting them into operation.
"The governor has made it clear that he expects quick implementation of these regulations," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If you have H.I.V., you should get to see an H.I.V. specialist," said Daniel Zingale, director of the agency that developed a new rule requiring the specialized level of care. (John Decker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MEDICAID (79%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); CANCER (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); INSURANCE (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INFLUENZA (71%); AIDS POLICY (58%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE 

PERSON: TULLER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



460 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA; 
The Pride Of Salinas: Steinbeck At 100

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: SALINAS, Calif. 

 BODY:
Here in the fertile California valley that was home to many of the hobos, vagrants, prostitutes and migrant farm laborers who populate the works of John Steinbeck, a yearlong celebration is under way to honor the writer's memory. 
 There are also events being planned elsewhere, including New York, where Steinbeck lived for the last 18 years of his life. There is a tribute at Lincoln Center tonight, a conference at Hofstra University from Thursday through Saturday and a film series in April and May at City University. A Web site, http://www.steinbeck100.org/ newevents.html, provides information on events in other areas. 
 The Steinbeck towns like Salinas are no longer ringed by shantytowns filled with hungry Dust Bowl refugees, as in "The Grapes of Wrath." Down the road in Monterey, the immigrants and ne'er-do-wells who populate books like "Cannery Row" and "Tortilla Flat" have given way to boutique owners.
Yet since Steinbeck's death, in 1968, people here have become zealous guardians of his legacy, so the National Steinbeck Center in Salinas seemed the appropriate place for the cake-cutting that opened what is to be a year of speeches, public readings, concerts, academic conferences, film showings and other tributes. 
Steinbeck's works are still widely read in the United States and abroad. Many of his admirers say that is because he conveys a love of the downtrodden, the exploited, the ones he called "the gathered and the scattered." He spent years living among them and portrayed them as deftly as any American writer ever has.
The celebration in Salinas on Feb. 27, the 100th anniversary of Steinbeck's birth, included the reading of official proclamations and the presentation of prizes to local high school students who have studied Steinbeck. It was one of more than 175 tributes to be held this year in 39 states. Together they are said to make up the largest-scale homage ever paid to an American author.
Many of these events are being paid for by the National Endowment for the Humanities, which gave $260,000 to a coalition of 26 nonprofit cultural groups and 100 local libraries.
The California Council for the Humanities is planning an effort to persuade as many Californians as possible to read "The Grapes of Wrath" over the summer. Beginning in October, libraries and schools across the state will sponsor discussion groups and other events related to the book. 
"The Grapes of Wrath," generally considered Steinbeck's masterpiece, grew out of a newspaper assignment to investigate the living conditions in California of migrants from the parched heartland. He wrote it during an intense six-month creative marathon in 1938, and its graphic portrayal of workers suffering at the hands of callous landowners brought him death threats, an F.B.I. investigation and charges of Communist sympathy.
That last charge may have seemed plausible during the contentious 1930's, when anyone speaking out for the rights of the poor was considered suspicious, but it sounds quite odd in light of Steinbeck's later opinions. After World War II he denounced Communists for having "established the most reactionary governments in the world, governments so fearful of revolt that they must make every man an informer against his fellows, and layer their society with secret police." During the 1960's he was one of the few American intellectuals who refused to denounce the United States role in Vietnam.
Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1962. "His sympathies always go out to the oppressed, the misfits and the distressed," the Nobel committee asserted in choosing him. "He likes to contrast the simple joy of life with the brutal and cynical craving for money."
In accepting the award, Steinbeck said: "The ancient commission of the writer has not changed. He is charged with exposing our many grievous faults and failures, with dredging up to the light our dark and dangerous dreams for the purpose of improvement. Furthermore, the writer is delegated to declare and to celebrate man's proven capacity for greatness of heart and spirit -- for gallantry in defeat, for courage, compassion and love." 
During Steinbeck's childhood in Salinas, his parents often read aloud to him and his three sisters. He spent hours in the attic of his family home devouring books like "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" and "Ivanhoe" and one that became a lifelong favorite, Malory's "Morte d'Arthur." 
As he grew older, Steinbeck often left Salinas and traveled to the seaside town of Monterey, about 25 miles away. There he developed a bond with cannery workers, fishermen and others on the fringes of society.
Most of Steinbeck's works are straightforward, accessible and easy to read. That has led some sophisticates to scorn them, but it has also attracted legions of admirers. One of them is Anne Wright, a Silicon Valley marketing executive who attended a Steinbeck memorial reception and dinner in San Jose, Calif. 
"His style was like the people he wrote about," said Ms. Wright, who confided that according to family legend, she was delivered by the same doctor who delivered Steinbeck. "It wasn't complex, or if it was, then not in a philosophical way."
Several bookstores in the Salinas area are featuring Steinbeck's works or mounting special programs about him. At one store a collector and dealer, James Johnson, displayed posters from many of the more than 30 films that have been made from Steinbeck's works, along with copies of his books translated into languages including Farsi, Vietnamese and Slovenian.
"We don't know how many languages he's been translated into, but I have books in about 40 and I'd guess the total is around 60," Mr. Johnson said. "He wrote about the common man, and in the end almost all of us think of ourselves as common. That transcends national boundaries." 
Japan is among the countries where Steinbeck's works are especially popular. A former executive director of the Steinbeck Society of Japan, Kiyoshi Nakayama, attended the Salinas festivities.
"We went through a very poor period after the war, and many people of that generation identified with what Steinbeck wrote," said Mr. Nakayama, whose 1998 translation of "The Grapes of Wrath" is the eighth to appear in Japanese. "He is still very popular in Japan, even though there are more scholarly papers written about Hemingway and Faulkner." 
The debate over how Steinbeck compares with Hemingway and Faulkner, titans of his generation who also won the Nobel Prize, may be endless. Some critics have sought to dismiss him as less profound and more superficial than the other two, a straightforward storyteller beloved by high school students rather than a profound intellectual who probed the human psyche. Sometimes he is dismissed as unsophisticated, as when Edmund Wilson complained about "the coarseness that tends to spoil Mr. Steinbeck as an artist." 
Susan Shillinglaw, a professor of English at San Jose State University and director of the Center for Steinbeck Studies, said she admired all three novelists and did not believe Steinbeck suffered by comparison. 
"I love Hemingway's prose, and I think his short stories are some of the best in the language, but Steinbeck did the same kind of listening and simplifying," Ms. Shillinglaw said in an interview after addressing the crowd at Salinas. "Steinbeck has more heart and soul, more empathy. He reaches out to readers with a participatory prose that invites us to engage, rather than writing as an observer the way Hemingway often does. 
"Faulkner was certainly complex and experimental in a way that Steinbeck was not. He was more in touch with the modernism of people like Joyce and Virginia Woolf. But to compare him to Steinbeck is like comparing Picasso to Matisse. They weren't trying to do the same thing."
Ms. Shillinglaw is the co-editor of a newly published anthology of Steinbeck's journalistic work, "America and Americans," and also of a forthcoming book in which 23 American and foreign writers pay tribute to Steinbeck and assess his cultural influence. Contributors include Arthur Miller, Norman Mailer, E. L. Doctorow, Kurt Vonnegut and T. C. Boyle. 
Among those who joined the celebration in Salinas was Thom Steinbeck, the author's only surviving child, who bears a striking resemblance to his father.
"He was an animist," Mr. Steinbeck said of his father while reminiscing between public appearances. "He would tip his hat to dogs. He'd talk to screwdrivers, start a conversation with a parking meter at the drop of a hat." 
Mr. Steinbeck said that after years of monitoring the royalty checks the family receives for his father's works, he has developed a theory about the rises and falls in his popularity. 
"Every time people are being driven out of work by powerful institutions that they think are against them, when there's unemployment and economic trouble, sales increase," Mr. Steinbeck said. "When you have boom times like the mad 80's and there's plenty of money around, sales go down. It all depends on the age we're in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Steinbeck in 1952; the portrayer of the oppressed has a 100th birthday this year, and tributes are being planned across the nation. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); FARM LABOR (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LITERATURE (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); FILM (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LIBRARIES (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: STEINBECK, JOHN (1902-68); KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) SALINAS (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



461 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Aid in a Changed World 

BYLINE:  By Kofi A. Annan; Kofi A. Annan is the secretary general of the United Nations.

 BODY:
 In rural areas of Bangladesh, most girls marry at a very young age -- not because they wish to, but because their families cannot afford to send them to school. In some districts, however -- Narshingdi, for instance -- that is changing. Girls' enrollment in secondary schools there has more than doubled, and in three years the proportion of married women in the 13-to-15 bracket dropped to 14 percent from 29 percent. Families are getting smaller, and more women are employed, with higher incomes. The benefits will reach far beyond individual girls; they will include lower birth rates, better health practices, fewer children dying in infancy and a more productive labor force. 
 What made this change happen? Money. Since 1993, girls attending secondary school receive a small stipend while the school receives tuition assistance. The pilot program, sponsored by Bangladesh and financed by the World Bank, is now to be expanded, to affect up to 1.45 million girls. 
That is development. It is not abstract. It is real change in the lives of real people eager to improve their own conditions, if only they can get a real chance. At present many are denied that chance. Well over a billion people go to bed hungry every night. They do not have water they can drink without grave risk of disease. Development means enabling such people, and another two billion who are only marginally better off, to build themselves a better life. 
Eighteen months ago, the political leaders of the world agreed, at the Millennium Summit here in New York, that we should devote the first 15 years of this new century to a major onslaught on poverty, illiteracy and disease. And they set a clear set of targets, the Millennium Development Goals, by which to measure success or failure. Those goals will not be reached without resources: human resources, natural resources and also, crucially -- as the example of the girls in Narshingdi shows -- financial resources. That is why more than 50 heads of state, as well as cabinet members, business leaders, foundation executives and representatives of not-for-profit groups, are in Monterrey, Mexico, this week to discuss financing for development. The fate of millions of people depends on our getting this right.
Leaders from the developing world will also be there -- not as supplicants but as partners. They are in the process of adopting the right policies for mobilizing private investment, from their own citizens and from abroad. They know they have to embrace the market, ensure economic stability, collect taxes in a transparent and accountable way, uphold the rule of law and protect property rights.
What they ask for is a fair chance to trade their way out of poverty, without having to face tariffs and quotas or to compete against subsidized products from rich countries. Many are also asking for relief from unsustainable debts. And many are saying that in order to make the full transition to sound, open economies, they need increased aid from wealthier countries.
Until recently, most developed countries have reacted with skepticism to this request, feeling that too much aid has been wasted in previous decades by corrupt or inefficient governments. During the cold war, the Soviet Union and the wealthier nations of the West used aid primarily to reward loyalty. Corruption and waste -- indeed, results of any kind -- were secondary to what donor countries wanted most, namely political allegiance. That troubled track record made it easy to attack foreign aid as an ineffective development tool.
Now in the post-cold war era, the developed nations have increasingly come to realize that we live in one world, not two; that no one in this world can feel comfortable while so many are suffering and deprived; that the growing gap between rich and poor is, as President Bush said last week, "both a challenge to our compassion and a source of instability."
As the developed world has begun to appreciate many of the risks posed by economic stagnation, even when it is geographically distant, poorer countries have come to see the value of open markets to their own prospects. There is a new global deal on the table: when developing countries fight corruption, strengthen their institutions, adopt market-oriented policies, respect human rights and the rule of law, and spend more on the needs of the poor, rich countries can support them with trade, aid, investment and debt relief.
Last Thursday, President Bush announced an important American contribution when he pledged $5 billion over three years for a Millennium Challenge Account to help developing countries improve their economies and standards of living. (American nonmilitary foreign aid is at present about $10 billion per year.) Later the same day, the European Union announced that by 2006 its members would increase their development assistance by $4 billion per year, so as to reach an average of 0.39 percent of gross national product -- a significant step toward the United Nations target of 0.7 percent.
These amounts will not be sufficient by themselves. All economic studies indicate that to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, we need an increase of about $50 billion a year in worldwide official aid -- a doubling of present levels.
But the European and American decisions do suggest that the argument on principle has been won. All governments accept that official aid is only one element in the development mix, but an essential one. Aid can be much more effective today than it was 20 years ago if it is focused on building the capacity of recipient countries to run their own economies, not on tying them to the business or geopolitical interests of the donor countries. Aid today must aim at developing human resources so that growth can be sustained. It must be directed not at securing loyalty but at rewarding sound governance that will last.
If the new global deal is clinched in Monterrey this week, many more girls, in Africa, Asia and Latin America, could have the chance to go to school as girls in Narshingdi do. Millions of children could grow up to be productive members of their societies instead of falling victim to AIDS, tuberculosis or malaria. As their lives improve, the world will become a more prosperous and stable place.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); TRENDS (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) BANGLADESH (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



462 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar advanced on expectations that quickening United States economic growth will attract Japanese investors. In New York, the dollar settled at 131.33 yen, up from 129.18 yen on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since October 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (91%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



463 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Takes Swing at Crooks Who Steal Aid for the Poor 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 18 

 BODY:
Corruption among governments, politicians and businessmen endangers the world's efforts to ease poverty, according to leaders of a United Nations conference on aid and economic development that opened here today.
 Untangling criminal webs that have crippled aid efforts will take years, the leaders said. One solution that has been raised at the United Nations, an international convention against corruption that would demand clean government and the return of stolen funds, seems as quixotic as a decree outlawing greed, lust and the other deadly sins. 
 But the first step has been taken: institutions like the United Nations and the World Bank are acknowledging that corruption is a factor and aiming to control it, said Ruth Jacoby, Sweden's ambassador to the United Nations and an author of the Monterrey Consensus, the agreement on increasing aid to poor nations that is a focus of this conference, which runs through Friday. 
"A half decade ago, one didn't speak of corruption -- it was considered offensive," she said.
People are talking now. They see bribery and corruption as "grave obstacles" to development, said Shamshad Ahmad, Pakistan's United Nations ambassador, also an author of the Monterrey Consensus. The United States demands that poor nations cleanse their governments as a condition for new aid promised last week by President Bush.
The problem is not simply crooked politicians, though it begins there. Bad governments tend to deepen their peoples' poverty. Poor nations lack banking and financial regulations, a working tax system or a judiciary. They cannot easily enforce the law, clean up graft or inspire confidence in investors.
For rich nations, aid has often been a political tool, supplied with a blind eye to corruption. During the cold war the United States supported rulers like Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, accused of stealing billions, because they were seen as bulwarks against Communism.
Today, the global political equations have changed: aid will be considered well spent if it prevents states from collapsing into "havens for terror," Mr. Bush said Thursday. He said, however, that the United States would demand that states remove "gantlets of bureaucracy and bribery" to receive American aid.
But "the biggest demand for an end to corruption," said Nitin Desai, the United Nations under secretary general for economic and social affairs, "is in the countries affected by it."
The horror stories are famous in aid circles: fortunes stolen by crooked Russian politicians and businessmen; millions sent to Bosnia that vanished; thefts and kickbacks within the Palestinian Authority. There are tales of the international airport built in the remote Kenyan hamlet that happens to be President Daniel Arap Moi's hometown, and the Mercedes fleet purchased by the leaders of Malawi.
Aid officials argue that these tales of theft are exceptions, not rules, and should not make donor nations disregard the real reductions in poverty and infant mortality, and the increases in life expectancy and literacy, that their aid has bought over the years.
"No one says we cannot have a defense budget, or spend an additional $48 billion on weapons this year, because someone bought a thousand-dollar teapot," said Mark Malloch Brown, the head of the United Nations Development Program. The United Nations is asking the world's rich nations to increase their international aid by a roughly equal sum, about $50 billion a year.
James Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, says rich nations should attack corruption by helping poor ones train civil servants and build schools. Every nation, the United States included, has had "to struggle against extreme corruption," he said. "This battle never ends."
The battle has been joined since 1993 by Transparency International, a global anticorruption group with offices in 80 nations and leaders who are veterans of aid wars at the World Bank and the United Nations. Their work includes roughly 100 "integrity pacts," like an open bidding process on a Karachi water project that cut projected costs by tens of millions of dollars.
But the group's vice chairman, Frank Vogl, said, "There still is a taboo about discussing this problem, to some extent."
He cited the example of the arms trade. "Countries with incredibly limited resources, that can't provide medical care to their citizens, are spending huge amounts on arms," he said. "That's taboo. Nobody's going to talk about defense spending by developing countries, though there's massive corruption involved in the arms trade."
Public outrage against corruption has toppled regimes in places like the Philippines. But in the poorest nations, powerlessness prevails among the poor, making aid honestly delivered and spent all the more crucial.
Critics of World Bank lending say it too could be more transparent. 
They say the bank prefers huge construction projects like dams and pipelines, easier to defraud than smaller-scale programs. Instead, they say, the bank should focus on a few grand goals, like universal access to primary education and prenatal care, while clearly favoring nations less corrupt or repressive than their neighbors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BRIBERY (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ETHICS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WRITERS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); AIRPORTS (50%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%) MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



464 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 COPPER RISES. Copper jumped after some economists raised their forecasts for economic growth, signaling stronger demand. In New York, copper for May delivery rose 1.4 cents, or 1.9 percent, to 76.45 cents a pound.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since October 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



465 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Slips a Bit as Investors Fear a Rise in Interest Rates

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average fell yesterday for the first trading day in three as some investors said rising interest rates might stunt a rebound in corporate profits.
 Financial stocks including J. P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup and American Express slid on expectations that Federal Reserve policy makers would set the stage to start lifting rates when they meet today. The New York Stock Exchange had its slowest day in more than a month. 
 "People are nervous about the Fed raising rates," said Mark Bronzo, who oversees $2.9 billion at Groupama Asset Management. 
The Dow lost 29.48 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,577.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was little changed, down 0.61 point, to 1,165.55. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.76 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,877.06.
Five stocks rose for every four that fell on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. Some 1.18 billion shares traded on the Big Board, the fewest since Feb. 12, as some investors declined to make new bets before the Fed meeting.
While economists at Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney said yesterday that the economy was coming out of recession faster than expected, some investors said the market's gains already reflected the prospects for improved corporate profits.
"We still are seeing markets rise on hope and expectations that sales will pick up and profit will improve based on positive economic data," said Michael Farr, who manages $350 million at the Washington-based firm of Farr, Miller & Washington. 'We haven't seen it yet."
Financial stocks were the biggest drag on the S.& P. 500. J. P. Morgan Chase, the second-biggest United States bank, fell 67 cents, to $35.34; Citigroup, the largest financial services company, lost 14 cents, to $49.55; the credit card issuer American Express dropped 20 cents, to $41.95; and Fannie Mae, the mortgage purchaser, dropped 78 cents, to $80.51.
Conseco Inc. slumped 65 cents, to $3.40. The insurer, which has fallen 77 percent in the last year, asked bondholders for more time to repay as much as $2.54 billion of debt.
Gains by Viacom and AOL Time Warner helped limit the S.& P. 500's decline, as investors bet the media companies would see their advertising revenue jump as the economy strengthens.
Viacom, owner of the CBS television network, advanced $1.22, to $50.83, and AOL Time Warner, the biggest Internet and media company, climbed 47 cents, to $26.80.
Pfizer Inc. dropped 71 cents, to $40.66. Pfizer, the largest drug maker, said its Zithromax antibiotic was not as effective in preventing heart attacks and other coronary problems as the company had expected.
Bristol-Myers Squibb lost $1.83, to $49.08, and Merck slid 96 cents, to $58.79.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
 (By Reuters) -- Treasuries were mixed in quiet trading yesterday as market participants held off making aggressive bets before an expected shift in the Federal Reserve's policy stance that is likely to pave the way to a tightening of interest rates.
There were no major economic indicators yesterday, which kept the market focused on the Federal Open Market Committee meeting today. The central bank is expected to offer a more upbeat assessment of the economy's prospects.
By late in the day, the 10-year note rose 6/32, to a price of 96 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.30 percent from 5.33 percent on Friday. The two-year note, among the securities most sensitive to expected Fed changes, also declined.
But the 30-year bond rose 7/32, to a price of 94 30/32. Its yield fell to 5.74 percent from 5.75 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.53598.954High Rate1.8402.070Investment Rate1.8742.120Low Rate1.78%2.00%Median Rate1.82%2.05%Total applied $44for,399,451$31,757,581$17Accepted,834,836$17,714,705$1Noncompetitive,397,103$983,943

Both issues are dated March 21. The three-month bills mature on June 20, and the six-month bills on Sept. 19.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction since November. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); PFIZER INC (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); AOL INC (64%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (63%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); GROUPAMA ASSET MANAGEMENT SA (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); VIACOM INC (52%); CBS BROADCASTING INC (51%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); PFZ (LSE) (81%); PFEB (BRU) (81%); PFE (NYSE) (81%); AOL (NYSE) (64%); CNO (NYSE) (63%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); BMY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (81%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



466 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Bad Medicine 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Sunday's front-page article in The Times on doctors who shun patients with Medicare may have been alarming enough; it seems that recent cuts in Medicare payments are inducing many doctors to avoid treating Medicare recipients at all. But this is just the beginning of a struggle that will soon dominate American politics.
 Think of it as the collision between an irresistible force (the growing cost of health care) and an immovable object (the determination of America's conservative movement to downsize government). For the moment the Bush administration and its allies still won't admit that there is any conflict between their promises to retirees and their small-government ideology. But we're already past the stage where this conflict can be hidden with fudged numbers. The effort to live within unrealistically low targets for Medicare expenses has already translated into unrealistically low payments to health-care providers. And it gets worse from here. 
 Why do health care costs keep on rising? It's not because doctors and hospitals are greedy; it's because of medical progress. More and more conditions that once lay beyond doctors' reach can now be treated, adding years to the lives of patients and greatly increasing the quality of those years -- but at ever greater expense. A triple coronary bypass does a lot more for you than a nice bedside manner, but it costs a lot more, too. 
During the 1990's the upward trend in health care costs seemed to level off. But it's now clear that this was a one-time cost squeeze due to the shift to H.M.O.'s. Now medical costs have resumed their upward march.
If medicine were purely a private matter, medical progress would pose no more of a dilemma than, say, progress in home entertainment systems. But in fact the United States, like every advanced country, treats essential health care as a right, not a privilege. Our Medicare/Medicaid combination provides this right somewhat haphazardly; still, the intent of our system is that nobody should be denied life-saving treatment for lack of funds. 
Why don't we just leave medical care up to individuals? Basically, even in the United States there are limits to how much inequality the public is prepared to tolerate. It's one thing if the rich can afford bigger houses or fancier vacations than ordinary families; Americans accept such differences cheerfully. But a society in which rich people get their medical problems solved, while ordinary people die from them, is too harsh even for us. 
And so we have Medicare and Medicaid. And the public overwhelmingly supports the extension of Medicare to include prescription drugs, for the same reason: it seems wrong to most Americans that drugs that make a big difference to people's lives should be available only to those wealthy enough to pay for those drugs out of pocket. Including drug coverage in Medicare is not so much a matter of extending the program as of remaining true to its original intent. 
But meeting the public's expectations for medical care -- that is, ensuring that every American, and in particular every retired American, gets essential care -- will require a lot of government spending. And the conservative movement in general, and the Bush administration in particular, are not prepared to make the money available; after all, government spending must ultimately be paid for with taxes. 
Yet they dare not say openly that they are prepared to deny essential health care to those who cannot afford it. So what can they do?
The Bush administration is still trying to fake it; the budget proposal it released last month had health-care economists rubbing their eyes. It assumed a far lower rate of growth in Medicare expenses than anyone else thinks plausible -- over all, it budgeted $300 billion less over the next decade than the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects will be needed. And it also repeated the implausible claim that we can have prescription drug insurance on the cheap -- setting aside half or less what others think such a program will cost. 
But we have already reached the point at which we must either come up with more money or deny health care to retirees. The moral of Sunday's article is that Medicare payments have already been squeezed beyond their limits, to the point where recipients can't find doctors willing to take them. Something will have to give, and soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); MEDICAID (58%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AGED 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



467 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Israeli Forces Withdraw In Move Toward Cease-Fire
Israeli ground forces began withdrawing early from Palestinian-controlled territory in Bethlehem and two other West Bank towns, the Israeli Army said, as Israel moved under American pressure toward meeting Palestinian conditions for formal cease-fire talks. The pullback came as Vice President Dick Cheney arrived in Jerusalem for meetings with Israeli officials. A1

Worker Protests in China
Public protests by workers displaced by the overhaul of state industries are becoming larger and angrier, with huge demonstrations breaking out in several places this month. And if the recent reports are any guide, the scale of the unrest is likely to grow as China opens more industries to competition under World Trade Organization rules. A1

Effort Against Aid Misuse
Corruption among governments, politicians and businessmen endangers the world's efforts to ease poverty, delegates said at a United Nations conference on aid and economic development in Mexico. A10

U.S. Indicts Colombia Rebels
A federal grand jury has indicted seven men -- including three Colombian guerrillas -- on charges of conspiring to smuggle planeloads of cocaine from Colombia to the United States. The charges are the first time that felony narcotics accusations have been brought against members of the rebel movement. A4

Mission to Zimbabwe
The presidents of South Africa and Nigeria flew to Zimbabwe and urged the newly re-elected president, Robert Mugabe, and Morgan Tsvangirai, his opposition party rival, to work together to salvage the nation, which is troubled by food shortages, unemployment and simmering political tensions. Mr. Tsvangirai has refused to accept defeat, contending that the voting was rigged. A8

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A14-15

U.S. Looks Beyond the Valley In Its Pursuit of Holdouts
Gen. Tommy Franks, the commander of American forces in Afghanistan, said operations in the Shah-I-Kot Valley were all but over. But in a sign that operations would continue elsewhere, Britain said it was sending 1,700 troops to help flush out remaining Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters. A1

Britain said it dispatched the troops in response to a request from the United States for forces trained in arctic and mountain warfare. It said the commandos would operate under overall United States command as part of an American brigade. A14

Mixed Signals From Iran
Iran's religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, ruled out talks with the United States a day after President Mohammad Khatami's cabinet spokesman signaled that the government would welcome talks aimed at thawing decades of icy relations. A15

Death Penalty to Be Sought
Federal prosecutors are said to be planning to seek the death penalty in the coming trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, who has been identified by law enforcement officials as the "20th hijacker" in the Sept. 11 attacks. A1

Pressing to Keep Air Patrols
The Bush administration's decision to halt 24-hour fighter jet patrols over New York City drew criticism from New York lawmakers, who raised concerns about security. A15

NATIONAL A16-20

Bush Revives Tax-Cut Plan For Small Businesses
President Bush proposed a new round of tax cuts, totaling $7 billion over 10 years and intended mainly for small businesses, a constituency he is courting for the Congressional elections this year. Under the plan, the amount that small businesses could deduct immediately for the purchase of equipment would be increased. A19

Senate Debates Soft-Money Bill
The Senate opened debate on a comprehensive overhaul of the campaign finance law in a drive to give the bill final approval and send it to President Bush by the end of the week. The bill's opponents, mostly Republicans, contend that the bill abridges free speech rights and will weaken the national political parties. A19

Widow Argues for Right to Sue
Jennifer K. Harbury, the Harvard Law School-educated widow of a Guatemalan rebel leader, argued in the Supreme Court for the right to sue government officials who did not tell her all they knew of his capture, torture and death at the hands of the Guatemalan military in the 1990's. A19

Child Pornography Arrests
Federal officials said they had smashed a nationwide Internet child-pornography ring with the arrest of about 90 people, including two Roman Catholic priests, a teacher's aide, a school bus driver and a police officer. The F.B.I. said that 27 of those arrested had admitted to having molested more than 40 children. A16

Flooding in the South
A second day of heavy rain in the Kentucky and Tennessee hills set off floods and mudslides that destroyed dozens of houses and forced some residents to flee by boat as water lapped at the roofs. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Mayor Sees Tweed Building As His School Headquarters
Mayor Bloomberg surprised local and state officials by saying that when he takes control of the city's public schools he will put the central office of the Board of Education and a new school in the Tweed Courthouse, which was revamped at great expense and promised to the Museum of the City of New York. A1

Leaving Downtown for Midtown
The New York International Orchid Show, which drew 100,000 visitors last year, will open on Thursday at Rockefeller Center, leaving its home of 11 years, the damaged Winter Garden of the World Financial Center. B1

Cardinal Keeps Own Counsel
Cardinal Edward M. Egan made no comment on Connecticut court records disclosed Sunday that raised questions about his handling of accusations of sexual abuse against priests while he was bishop of Bridgeport. B1

ARTS E1-12

Rock Hall of Fame Awards
The Ramones, Talking Heads and two bands nurtured on the Lower East Side were inducted as the awards entered the punk era. B7

EDUCATION

State Chancellor Named
The New York State Board of Regents chose Robert M. Bennett. B1

Novel Strategy on Dropouts
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will give $40 million toward creation of 70 high schools that will try to keep disadvantaged students in school by offering college-level work. A16

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES A21

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Fuel for Ancient Visions
Scientists say they have chemical evidence of the mysterious vapors -- often derided as imaginary -- that the ancient Greeks said provided the inspiration for the oracle at Delphi. F1

Health & Fitness F6

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

A Woody for the 21st Century
Automakers say the next big thing will be a class of vehicle offering three rows of seats and resembling a beefed-up station wagon. A1

Microsoft Deal Challenged
A federal court heard arguments on the government's proposed settlement of the antitrust case. C1

Damage Control at Andersen
KPMG and Arthur Andersen were discussing a merger of their operations abroad, in the latest effort to salvage parts of Andersen as it prepares to challenge a criminal charge arising from the Enron collapse. C1

Conseco Seeks Delay on Bonds
The ailing insurance and finance giant asked some bondholders to delay repayments of bonds with a total face value of $2.54 billion. C1

Qwest Credit Terms Revised
Qwest Communications, which unnerved Wall Street and its banks last month by unexpectedly drawing down a $4 billion line of credit, said the banks had agreed to relax debt restrictions in the credit agreement. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-8

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The plagues of poverty; campaign reform's time has come; a revealing trove in Afghanistan; a better use for the Tweed Courthouse.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INDICTMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CAPITAL CRIMES (72%); CONSPIRACY (72%); GRAND JURY (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); TALIBAN (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FELONIES (67%); HIJACKING (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); COCAINE (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); AL-QAEDA (61%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (56%); ALI KHAMENEI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ZIMBABWE (93%); CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



468 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Orchids Still Herald Spring, But Not at Winter Garden 

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
In a triumph over adversity, organizers of the New York International Orchid Show have toiled feverishly to relocate uptown, far from the show's ravaged longtime home at what is now ground zero. The riotous rainbow of 5,000 plants -- long a harbinger of spring in wintry Manhattan -- is to make its debut on Thursday in a new space: Rockefeller Center.
 But the selection of a new showcase for the exquisite and ephemeral orchid has bruised the already fragile feelings of those at the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, home of the show for the last 11 years. 
 There, orchid show attendance grew from 30,000 to 100,000 last year, transforming the gathering from a local convocation to a world event that attracted thousands of foreign tourists. 
But the Winter Garden suffered severe damage on Sept. 11. Yesterday, construction workers there were buffeted by snowy March winds as they tried to complete a $50 million restoration by the fall. 
For months, the city's tourism and economic development managers have started dozens of programs to bring visitors to Lower Manhattan, ranging from restaurant-week promotions and shopping tours to festivals in Little Italy and Chinatown. Even Liza Minnelli demonstrated her support by holding her wedding reception downtown at the Regent Wall Street Hotel. 
And so, according to Melissa Coley, the World Financial Center's vice president for arts and events, the uptown migration of the orchid show "is disappointing." 
"We were hoping to keep the show in Lower Manhattan, as a gesture of solidarity," she said. "It had become such a tradition." 
The chairman of the orchid show, Carlos F. Fighetti, is a past president of the Greater New York Orchid Society, which sponsors the event. He acknowledged his gratitude to the Winter Garden but said the society's duty was "to educate people about orchids, and give as much attention to orchids as possible."
He suggested that the show would not be returning downtown for at least a few years.
Since the show will be downstairs in the lobby of the NBC headquarters at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, it is not surprising that the orchids are scheduled to be featured on the "Today" program Thursday.
Yesterday, vendors were setting up the 22nd annual show, which is free to the public and will run Thursday through Sunday in that lobby and down in the subterranean concourse of Rockefeller Center, centering on the area adjacent to the skating rink. 
Shortly after the September attacks, the World Financial Center staff told the orchid society about damage to the Winter Garden, and worked to suggest alternative spaces in Lower Manhattan, including building lobbies as well as the South Street Seaport. 
The orchid society rejected them because, Mr. Fighetti said, "unfortunately there wasn't a venue downtown that was large enough." 
He added, "I feel badly that they will feel that we are abandoning them, but it will take another couple of years to get the infrastructure back down there, such as the train stations." 
But Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism board, said that "people are looking for a reason to go downtown now." She said that "it has never been easier to get downtown." While praising the orchid society for keeping the show in New York, she added that "it is critical that Lower Manhattan get extra attention right now." 
Until it came to the Winter Garden in 1991, the orchid show had been a comparatively modest success at previous homes that included the New York Coliseum and the New York Botanical Garden.
The show created a wider sensation in the Winter Garden, and soon orchid vendors were spilling out onto the North Bridge, the now-destroyed pedestrian walkway that once carried 80,000 people between the World Trade Center and the Winter Garden. 
After the September destruction, many of the orchidists at first thought it might be necessary to cancel the show, even though it was the society's 50th anniversary. Normally, planning begins a year in advance since vendors all over the world must make arrangements to import tons of plants.
Furthermore, orchid society members -- the unpaid volunteers who mount each show -- were emotionally torn by the terrorist attacks. "I realized that the building fell on the exact spot where I had walked up and down for a decade at the orchid show," Sister Joanne Marruso said.
Although its customary September meeting was canceled, Mr. Fighetti said that at the October meeting of about 60 members in the Bronx, the orchid society's board voted unanimously to have the show. 
After the society rejected potential downtown sites, it found that uptown armories and the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center were already booked. Then it learned that space was available at Rockefeller Center, free to the orchid society, just as it had been at the Winter Garden. 
Now Rockefeller Center finds itself in the middle. "It never crossed our minds to do this in a way that would hurt downtown," said Thomas Madden, managing director for Tishman Speyer Properties, owners of Rockefeller Center.
"Our first reaction was to help out -- we just wanted to do the right thing." Indeed, for months his boss, Jerry I. Speyer, lobbied the federal government to finance downtown reconstruction efforts. 
But Ms. Coley of the World Financial Center is still hoping to see orchids under the atrium. "We're thrilled that the people of Midtown will be able to experience this wonderful orchid show at Rockefeller Center," she said, "but we hope it will be downtown next year in our new Winter Garden." 
However, though Mr. Fighetti estimated the new exhibition space to be 20 percent smaller, he said that "we will probably stay at Rockefeller Center, and try Midtown for the next few years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judges examining orchids at last year's show at the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7); Preparations for the New York International Orchid Show, opening Thursday at Rockefeller Center. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); GARDENING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TERRORISM (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HIJACKING (63%); AIRLINES (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (51%) GARDENS AND GARDENING; NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL ORCHID SHOW; ORCHIDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



469 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: The Station Wagon Is Back, but Not as aCar 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 18 

 BODY:
The station wagon is coming back.
 Sort of. 
 The next big thing, according to automakers, is a class of vehicles that will have three rows of seats and look like bulked-up station wagons or slimmed-down minivans. Automakers say the new wagons will appeal to families who want space for the children but do not want something as cumbersome or costly at the gas pump as a sport utility vehicle. They are also meant to attract drivers who want more space and prefer the handling and looks of a luxury car.
Though the automakers say these new vehicles, like the Pacifica from Chrysler and the SRX from Cadillac, are being introduced because consumers want them, there is another practical motivation: helping the companies meet fuel standards. 
Traditional station wagons were classified as cars under federal fuel economy rules. These vehicles will probably be classified as light trucks, a category that also includes sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks that are less fuel efficient.
Including this new type of vehicle in that group could allow automakers to build more gas guzzlers and still meet federal standards for fuel economy. Fuel economy regulations require automakers to meet fleetwide averages that work like a seesaw. Roughly speaking, for every big truck, there must be a little truck; for every big car, a little car.
Some of these wagons are so big, though, they might not meet even the mileage standard for light trucks.
The bulking up of the wagon has already begun with several sporty-looking offerings being sold on their rugged appeal, like the Audi allroad quattro, the Subaru Forester and the Volvo V70 Cross Country. Like traditional wagons, these models have two rows of forward-facing seats, but federal regulations permit automakers to categorize them as light trucks because of "off road" features like all-wheel drive and more than eight inches of ground clearance.
Having the Volvo categorized as a truck helps its parent, the Ford Motor Company, meet its fuel standards, because the Cross Country gets about 22 miles per gallon, below the 27.5 m.p.g. standard for passenger cars but above the 20.7 m.p.g. standard for light trucks.
Volkswagen, Audi's parent, traditionally pays fines because its fleet of light trucks does not meet United States fuel standards. The allroad, which gets about 18 m.p.g., does not even meet the light truck standard, but is far below the passenger car average.
The allroad appeals to "someone who's athletic and enjoys activities," says Chris Prodromides, sales manager at Pacific Audi in Hermosa Beach, Calif. "It can be a luxury touring sedan, a family hauler, and it can go off road. And it has a really aggressive look."
This first crop of rugged wagons, which sell for as little as $20,000 or as much as $40,000, presage even bigger models that are in the works or will start arriving next year from the Big Three as well as Nissan, Volkswagen and Audi. The new wagons will have a third row of seats that face forward, and some appear to be designed so that the area behind the front seats can be configured into a flat loading floor, like a truck bed. Chrysler used this configuration to have its PT Cruiser categorized as a light truck.
Detroit does not want its latest inventions mistaken for the wood-paneled boats of old.
" 'Station wagon' has a negative connotation," said Christopher Cedergren, an industry analyst with Nextrend Inc. of Thousand Oaks, Calif., adding that baby boomer auto executives were concerned about conjuring images of the Country Squire, a bloated Ford station wagon of days gone by.
Defining categories is becoming difficult as features of cars and trucks are increasingly blended into "crossover" vehicles that defy distinction. One recent Toyota advertisement for its new Matrix, a sleek, small version of a wagon, has a spy struggling to define it.
DaimlerChrysler has called them "sports tourers." They are also being called "tall wagons," "luxury crossover vehicles," "sport utility wagons" or "sport wagons."
The Pacifica wagon, which the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler is developing for middle-class families seeking deluxe suburban transportation rather than off-road rigor, is expected to come out next spring and start around $30,000. Daimler-Chrysler has a similar concept in the works for wealthier suburbanites with the Mercedes-Benz Vision GST (for "grand sports tourer") but has not made a final decision on whether to produce it in the United States.
Chrysler, which made the first minivan in 1983 and sold about 550,000 of them last year, is preparing to build more than 100,000 Pacificas next year, making it a major addition to the Chrysler fleet.
"We're confident this vehicle will follow the success of our original minivan," said Bryan Zvibleman, a company spokesman. He said Chrysler thought the new wagons could be as popular as its minivans, which have had sales of more than nine million over the years. "There is no other vehicle out there like this," he said.
The Pacifica is three inches shorter than a Honda Odyssey minivan and not quite as long, but nine inches taller than the more traditional Ford Taurus station wagon.
General Motors will enter the field next year with the Cadillac SRX. "We refer to this as a luxury crossover," said Kelly Cusinato, a spokeswoman for Cadillac. "It's not a wagon."
Ford is developing its own entry, tentatively called the Crosstrainer, after the athletic shoes -- "running shoes that do more than one job for multiple purposes," said Dan Bedore, a Ford spokesman. The company is trying to convey that the Cross trainer is more versatile than, say, the Taurus station wagon.
"It's for those people who are sedan or wagon people and not interested in, or ready to plunge into, the full-blown S.U.V.," Mr. Bedore added. "It does it all in a more fuel-efficient package."
Although the crossover vehicles will probably be less fuel-efficient than traditional station wagons, many are expected to deliver better-than-average mileage for light trucks. For automakers grappling with stagnant sales of passenger vehicles, that is an attractive advantage.
Last week, the Senate voted to keep separate fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks, rejecting a proposal by Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, to create much tougher requirements, in part by blending car and truck averages. Instead of keeping it a matter of Congressional concern, the Senate voted to let the Bush administration review mileage standards.
Given that light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, minivans and pickups -- outsold passenger cars for the first time last year, it is becoming more important for automakers to find ways to keep meeting minimum mileage requirements for trucks.
Detroit executives say the old station wagon's decline had less to do with changing tastes than the adoption of the fuel standards in the 1970's. The old station wagon was the biggest gas guzzler among cars, so Detroit came up with S.U.V.'s and minivans, people haulers that are trucks.
But that did not mean people stopped wanting big vehicles that handled more like cars.
"These are loophole-riding vehicles," said Daniel F. Becker, who monitors global warming and energy issues for the Sierra Club. "But they're defined as trucks to evade environmental and oil-saving laws."
Dennis Fitzgibbons, a spokesman in Chrysler's Washington office, countered that there was a substantive difference between traditional station wagons and new "tall wagons."
"Pacifica can accommodate six or eight people and a large amount of cargo," he said. "Is it fair to put that in the same category as a vehicle that can accommodate four or five people and a much smaller amount of cargo?"
Pacifica has a second row of seats akin to those in a first-class airline cabin -- captain's chairs similar to the driver's and the front passenger's seats, with the same adjustability and heating. The Pacifica's third row is a bench seat. The Cadillac SRX has a similar arrangement, as does a prototype from Audi, the Avantissimo.
It would be hard to overstate the importance of these don't-call-them-station-wagons to automakers who are worried that the S.U.V. craze might have peaked. At the North American International Auto Show in January, for instance, Chrysler's top executives performed a mock stage version of "The Dick Van Dyke Show" to promote the Pacifica.
Dieter Zetsche, Chrysler's mustachioed chief executive, was a nosy neighbor in need of eggs to make strudel, but he ended up helping Rob and Laura Petrie find the dream machine -- sort of an S.U.V., sort of a car -- that they really wanted but just didn't think existed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A concept version of the Chrysler Pacifica, which has the looks of a station wagon, power of a small S.U.V. and comforts of a luxury sedan. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart/Photos:1939: Woodies Packard Six Station WagonLength: About 16 feetPassengers: 7Engine: 6 cylinder, 100 horsepower 1970: Big Wagons Ford Country SquireLength: 19 feetPassengers: 10Engine: 8 cylinder, 250 horsepower 2003: Crossover Vehicles Chrysler PacificaLength: 13 feetPassengers: 6Engine: 6 cylinder, 250 horsepower (The New York Times; Photographs by Christie's, Ford Motor Company, Associated Press)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (99%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MINIVANS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SEDANS (78%); FAMILY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); APPEALS (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (70%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



470 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
Tagliabue Still Supports A Super Bowl in the North

BYLINE:  By THOMAS GEORGE 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., March 18 

 BODY:
Super Bowls could be played in the New York metropolitan area and Washington, but there is not a timetable and the reason for the games would not simply be an economic or emotional reaction to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Paul Tagliabue, the National Football League commissioner, said today at the league's annual owners meeting.
 "I think it's a very positive idea for simply our fans and our league," Tagliabue said. "Eventually, if we do it right, the idea will have merit." 
 Future Super Bowls have been awarded through 2006. There is interest in the league and in New York and Washington to play the game in either city in 2007. 
Tagliabue said, however, that other cities, especially Phoenix, have a commitment from the league to their city and team officials that they would receive Super Bowl consideration if they built new stadiums. Phoenix and the Arizona Cardinals are expected to have a new stadium by 2007.
Tagliabue said it would not matter to him when the games were played in New York or Washington, as long as those cities eventually received games. Some owners and coaches are against the idea because the game would have to be played outdoors and the winter date presents weather that could include below-freezing temperatures and snow. That is why, dissenters say, the league has a rule that prohibits the game from being played where the mean temperature in January and February is below 50 degrees.
"We've been discussing it internally in our office and we have an advisory committee making a report on it on here on Tuesday," Tagliabue said. "My guess is that we could eventually play one in both cities, but there is a lot to consider, including the weather, how it serves the fans, how it serves the teams participating and the networks. It has to be done in a balanced way. But a large portion of our fans, based on sheer population figures alone, are in the Northeast. They deserve a Super Bowl."
In other league news, Tagliabue said the owners were considering a new scheduling format that would allow for the televising of prime-time and Monday night games to be switched based on interest. This would allow for surprisingly successful teams that were not scheduled for prime time or Monday night games to be included.
The action is the result of free agency, the salary-cap system and the parity that has ensued, resulting in a cycle of teams who in any given season seem to rise from nowhere and teams who drastically decline with equal surprise.
When the 2002 schedule is released in the next two weeks, the league would designate three or four games each week that would be subject to change.
"That would give you three or four chances to be right instead of one chance," Tagliabue said.
League officials said that the opening Monday night game would feature Pittsburgh at New England in a rematch of the American Football Conference championship game. On Tuesday, the competition committee is expected to give its recommendation on whether the league should amend its tuck rule. The rule -- which states that a quarterback only fumbles when he tucks the ball completely after a pass and it pops loose -- could be amended to include a fumble when the quarterback is attempting to tuck the ball away and fumbles it.
The issue is a hot one for some teams -- especially Oakland -- since the Raiders lost a divisional playoff game at New England last season when Patriots quarterback Tom Brady lost the ball while being hit as he tucked it away after deciding not to pass. Oakland recovered the ball, but the play was overturned because of the current tuck rule.
The owners will implement a performance-based pool of money -- nearly $15 million this year that equals $500,000 a club -- to improve salaries for lower-paid players who excel. By 2006, the program is expected to have awarded $250 million, giving an individual player as much as a $150,000 bonus for his play, said Harold Henderson, the league's executive vice president for labor relations. He had no figures for what the high bonus number would be for this season but called it minimal.
 "This is directed to players who have the lowest salaries, but all players are eligible," Henderson said. "It is based on his number of plays and his salary is factored in." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); CITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); WEATHER (70%); POPULATION SIZE (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (56%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, PAUL (COMR); GEORGE, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



471 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Governor Approves Amnesty On Taxes 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 18 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey signed six bills today aimed at reducing the estimated $2.9 billion budget shortfall facing the state this fiscal year, including one that gives delinquent taxpayers a chance to pay up without penalties. 
 The tax amnesty legislation, which was approved last week by the State Assembly, will apply to taxes owed between Jan. 1, 1996, and Jan. 1, 2002. The amnesty will give taxpayers 60 days, until no later than June 10, to pay their back taxes without penalty. 
 "It provides for a relatively painless infusion of revenue," said State Senator Barbara Buono, who estimated that the program would raise $150 million.
In 1996, Gov. Christie Whitman authorized a tax amnesty that brought in $359 million during a 79-day period.
The new legislation had little difficulty getting through the State Legislature. On March 4 the measure passed the Senate 36 to 1, and on Thursday it passed the Assembly by 69 to 8.
Without the amnesty, delinquent taxpayers would have to pay an interest rate of as much as 18 percent a year for each year that full payment is delayed. The program worries some legislators, who say it could encourage people to put off filing.
Senator Leonard Lance, one of the bill's sponsors, said he understood the need for the money the amnesty would provide but was bothered that tax scofflaws who took advantage of the last amnesty would again be able to avoid penalties.
"This is the last time in New Jersey," he said. "People ought to pay their taxes on time."
Those who do not take advantage of the amnesty will be assessed a 5 percent fine in addition to the 18 percent penalties they already owed. 
Mr. McGreevey has until the end of the 2002 fiscal year, June 30, to close the $2.9 billion gap. He is to address the Legislature next Tuesday on how he plans to close the estimated $6 billion shortfall for fiscal 2003.
Of the five other bills signed by Mr. McGreevey today, four transfer money into the state's general fund. The remaining bill extends the deadline for distributing the Energy Tax Receipts Property Tax Relief Fund to municipalities by 15 days.
In total, the six bills are expected to raise $287 million toward the $2.9 billion shortfall.
Mr. McGreevey applauded the bipartisan support for the bills, saying such cooperation would be necessary for the future fiscal problems, too. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey signing the tax amnesty. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMNESTY (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) TAXATION; AMNESTIES AND PARDONS 

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (57%) MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



472 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Church Scandal Resurrects Old Hurts in Louisiana Bayou 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: ESTHER, La., March 17 

 BODY:
Nothing stays buried for long in the bayou. That is why the granite vaults and the whitewashed tombs of the cemetery behind St. James Chapel are built above ground: high water means the dead just don't stay down. 
 Nor does the past. Try as they might, locals like Curnal Cessac cannot keep buried the unspeakable things that happened here 20 years ago, when a priest had his way with dozens of altar boys in the dark of the confessional, in the confines of the sacristy, even on the altars of St. James and other churches. 
 "We thought we had dealt with it, and then it pops back up again," said Mr. Cessac, reflecting on the way recurring pedophile scandals within the Roman Catholic priesthood renew all the old memories. "Now there's a few people who're saying all over again that the church shouldn't have paid those boys" the millions of dollars in damage verdicts and settlements that the case here cost the Diocese of Lafayette. 
This was the first case of a pedophile priest to gain national attention, and it opened the way for suits here and around the country. More than that, what happened in Esther and the surrounding community offers insight into the kind of lasting psychological and emotional effects that such episodes can have on the victims, and on whole communities.
Mr. Cessac, who is retired but still volunteers to take care of the old cemetery behind St. James Chapel, was one of the lucky ones. His sons were altar boys in the 1980's, but they never got too close to the Rev. Gilbert Gauthe, the dashing priest, then in his late 30's, who rode a motorcycle and wore cowboy boots under his robe. The altar boys in this rural area of rice fields and crawfish traps deep in southern Louisiana's Cajun country thought Father Gauthe was the hippest guy around. 
Then the dark truth came out. He was arrested in 1983 and ultimately struck a plea bargain in which he admitted having sexually abused dozens of them.
For the victims, speaking out, both in the criminal case and in the civil suits brought by their families, provided a kind of therapy. Unlike the adults in Boston who have only now brought complaints about events decades old, they could confront their abuser and see him punished when they were still boys. They did not have to live with the effects of suppressed memory. 
But speaking out also made them pariahs to some in this intensely Catholic community. More than 80 percent of the people here are solid, fish-on-Fridays Catholics, and the church's presence is everywhere as evident as the bells at St. Mary Magdalen Church in Abbeville that toll every quarter-hour. 
Since this was the first prominent case of pedophilia in the church, there were no others to compare it to back then, and many Catholics doubted the boys' accounts. Some privately still do. Many cannot fathom how any Catholic family, or Catholic lawyer, could sue the church. 
Dealing with the case led some here to abandon their faith, and others to reaffirm it. "It's been hard, but I didn't lose my faith," Mr. Cessac said. "I wouldn't think too many in this community turned away."
Church records indicate that he is right. Local membership has grown, not declined, since the mid-1980's, and although Bible Churches and other congregations have sprouted recently, not one Catholic church has had to be shut. Attendance at Catholic schools also remains high. 
All this leaves victims dumbfounded. "Catholic tradition around here is wound up so tight it's like a ball of string that traps you inside," said Calvin Mire, a local police sergeant who, as an altar boy at St. James, was abused by Father Gauthe (pronounced GO-thay) for six years, until he was 15. His two younger brothers were also victims. 
Unlike many other families, the Mires did not accept quietly when the church offered a settlement. After his family sued, Calvin took the stand. He paid for doing so.
"I was condemned in my own community -- my brother's boss, who was a deacon at church, fired him and wouldn't talk to me -- and why?" Sergeant Mire said. "Because I talked about what that priest did to me. He intruded on my life, he hurt me psychologically, physically, and I'm supposed to shut up about it?"
Few want to talk about what happened, and others are barred from doing so: the settlements reached by the families of most victims include confidentiality agreements.
The story not many will tell is a Southern gothic tale of sex, power and God. Father Gauthe was a charming man whose sermons could make people cry. When he visited a family for dinner, he usually left his collar at the rectory and wore an open-neck shirt and cool shades. He had a camper van with a television. 
Only after one of his loyal flock of altar boys was hospitalized with rectal bleeding did the truth start to come out: he had molested dozens of them over several years, taken pornographic photographs of them and fondled them in the confessional, telling them he was checking for a hernia. 
When the boys' parents confronted the diocese in 1983, Father Gauthe was removed. In 1985, without ever offering the families an apology, he admitted having abused 37 boys. He accepted a plea bargain and was sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
After serving 10 years, Mr. Gauthe, whom the church had defrocked, was released and moved to Waskom, Tex., near Shreveport. He was soon arrested for fondling a 3-year-old boy, but the Texas authorities did not know of his criminal record in Louisiana, and he was placed on supervised probation.
Outraged families here, many of whom had not known that Mr. Gauthe was even out of prison, demanded that their local prosecutor do something. He detained Mr. Gauthe over a new accusation that back in the 1980's, the priest had raped a 12-year-old sister of one of his altar-boy victims.
Later, though, the state and the defense discovered a long-forgotten provision in Mr. Gauthe's plea bargain: immunity against further complaints on acts that had occurred before 1985. With prosecution on the rape charge now barred, Mr. Gauthe, having been detained on that charge about two years, was set free in February 2000. He has not been heard from since. 
The diocese had known of problems with Father Gauthe as early as the mid-1970's, when parents complained that he had kissed two boys. The response was to transfer him to another parish, 10 miles down the road. His case became something of a bellwether: in time, after his arrest a decade later, half a dozen other priests in the diocese were charged with sexually abusing children.
Msgr. Henri Alexandre Larroque, the senior cleric whom the diocese has appointed to deal with accusations of sex abuse, declined to answer questions about the Gauthe case's effect on the church, or to otherwise be interviewed for this article. He did agree to respond in writing to specific questions about membership and contributions, which, he said, have not declined since 1983, the year of Father Gauthe's arrest.
Kenneth R. Bouillion, a clinical psychologist who treated many of Father Gauthe's victims, said steadfast allegiance to the church among large numbers of people here was not surprising. "For people in this area," he said, "being Catholic is part of their psycho-social identity, no matter what happens." 
While 37 boys were involved in the legal proceedings, Dr. Bouillion estimates that Father Gauthe may have molested as many as 150.
Ties of family and faith have kept many of the victims in the area. Some are married and have children of their own. But, Dr. Bouillion said, most have left the church. They have become extremely cynical, he said, and suffer from anxiety, mood swings and loss of self-esteem. Many, he continued, struggle with issues like authority, intimacy and trust. 
Thirty-five of the 37 boys received settlements from the church that ran into the hundreds of thousands of dollars each. In the two civil cases that went to trial, damages exceeded $1 million each.
In a place like this, with unemployment chronically high and wages low, the pickup trucks that some of the boys bought when they turned 18 sowed resentment and jealousy. One woman whose brother was abused says that when she attended a high school reunion, a former classmate referred to the victims as "Gauthe's whores." 
Even the professionals involved in the case have had to deal with attacks on their reputations, and with a testing of their faith.
Kathleen L. Hurst, a victims' lawyer in nearby Lafayette, said that because of what happened, she was no longer a practicing Catholic. Anthony J. Fontana Jr., a local lawyer who represented several of the boys, remains a Catholic, but one whom some consider a shark. "A friend told us once," Mr. Fontana recalled, "that when he mentioned to someone that he had gone to Tony Fontana's house for a barbecue, they called the steaks we served 'diocesan steaks.' " 
By Mr. Fontana's account, the effects of the Gauther case are painfully lasting. One victim he represented was later charged with murder (though acquitted) and is now in jail for drugs. Mr. Fontana has represented others as well in criminal matters, and in multiple divorces.
"They've got no idea what they're sitting on in Boston," he said. "The hurt these cases have caused is going to show up in that community for the next four generations." 
The Boston case upsets some parents here because, they say, what they most wanted to accomplish 20 years ago was to prevent other children from being harmed. 
"That was my concern from the first day," said Sally Lege, whose son Brandon Lege was abused by Father Gauther and whose daughter Janessa Dubois later brought the accusation of rape against him.
The family of Wayne Sagrera, who raises alligators in the swamps near Esther, was one of nine families that brought the first of the accusations against Father Gauther. All four of his sons were altar boys in the local church, and some became victims.
"When I see another case surface," Mr. Sagrera said, "it doesn't make me feel any better, because I realize it's still going on. But it gives me a certain amount of relief that if I hadn't done what I did 20 years ago, these probably wouldn't have come forward today."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony J. Fontana Jr., a lawyer for some of the victims, says the effects of the Gauther case have been painfully lasting. (Philip Gould for The New York Times); Gilbert Gauthe, pedophile priest, in a holding cell in 1985. (Philip Gould)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); LITIGATION (87%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX SCANDALS (74%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); FAMILY (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); ARRESTS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) SEX CRIMES; PRIESTS; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; GAUTHE, GILBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) LOUISIANA; ESTHER (LA)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



473 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Thailand:Economic Growth 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Thailand's economy grew 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001, according to the state planning agency, beating most economists' predictions thanks to higher domestic spending and a stronger agricultural sector. The National Economic and Social Development Board said the Thai economy grew 1.8 percent for all of 2001, and, encouraged by gathering strength in the economy of the United States, raised its estimate of growth this year to as high as 3 percent from an earlier prediction of 2 percent. The agency warned that weakness in the Japanese economy and among Thai banks, as well as the possibility of a dry year for farmers, could darken the outlook.
 Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (88%); AGRICULTURE (87%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: THAILAND (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



474 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Now, About That Beachfront Property . . . 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Via South America, a Beachfront Boom for South Florida" (front page, March 12): 
 You do not note that there are some big losers in this real estate boom: people who actually live, work and raise families in South Florida. Miami is not a high-wage city, yet real estate prices are terribly skewed by the influx of money from the richest 1 percent from another continent.
As prime housing prices skyrocket, with thousands of empty condos serving as cash safe havens for rich South Americans, the prices of all other housing also soar. 
The result is a lack of affordable housing for many middle-class South Floridians.

ANDREW CLARK
Miami Beach, March 14, 2002

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Paul Corio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); BEACHES (88%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (87%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%) HOUSING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: CLARK, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



475 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Now, About That Beachfront Property . . . 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Via South America, a Beachfront Boom for South Florida" (front page, March 12) mentioned several hazards that investors from South America or elsewhere might encounter in their purchase of beachfront properties. 
 It did not, however, mention the dangers posed by rising ocean levels. Recent studies have indicated that ice melting from glaciers around the world will require the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to greatly increase its 2001 estimates of the rise in ocean levels in this century. Rising ocean levels make beachfront investment rather hazardous. 
Of course, the greatest risk is to those who actually live on the shores of oceans.

ANDREW MCLAUGHLIN
Warwick, N.Y., March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); BEACHES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OCEANS (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (87%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); TRENDS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (57%)

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



476 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Labor Strife of a Different Collar 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, March 18 

 BODY:
Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. may be state owned, but it is known internationally as efficient and well managed, even cutting edge. The company, one of the world's largest oil producers, has also long attracted the brightest minds in Venezuela to its singular task: producing the huge amounts of oil that motor this country.
 Now, however, the behemoth, with $20 billion a year in oil sales and 40,000 employees, is in turmoil. 
 Its white-collar workers are locked in a bitter feud with the government of President Hugo Chavez, whose firing of the company president last month precipitated a rousing, public quarrel that has dominated the local headlines, caused a work slowdown and threatens to spill into a full-fledged strike. Such an event would be calamitous for a country where oil accounts for 80 percent of exports, most of it bound for the United States. 
"This is a tragedy," said Luis Giusti, a former company president and now senior adviser for the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "It is inconceivable that in this company people would go out and protest. They would have been fired right away. But this is a crisis situation."
Indeed, American-style button-down corporate culture has long reigned at the company, which is universally called Pdvsa (pronounced peh-deh-VEH-sah). Salaries were among Venezuela's highest. People with degrees from the best -- often American -- universities were recruited. And once hired, many settled in for lifelong careers, rising through a highly structured, merit-based process, several current and former employees said. In exchange, workers pledged their loyalty.
The merit system started to change, current and former managers said, after Mr. Chavez, a left-leaning populist, took office in 1999 and began what he called a social and political revolution aimed at overturning Venezuela's social order. He took control of the Congress and the Supreme Court, and has heaped withering verbal attacks on institutions that he says helped the powerful plunder the country: the church, the news media and the labor unions.
"They want to do to Pdvsa what they have done to the country, to revolutionize it," said Eddie Ramirez, manager of a Pdvsa affiliate and a leading dissident.
Calling Pdvsa a "state within a state" that had grown too big and unruly, Mr. Chavez placed people who were close to him at the company's helm, naming four presidents in three years.
His administration also moved oil policy away from a 1990's-era plan that sought to increase production from 3.3 million barrels daily in 1997 to 6 million barrels in 2006. Instead, Mr. Chavez has adhered closely to production quotas of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which Venezuela is a member, holding back on oil output to increase prices.
Many of the company's managers disagree with this stance, saying instead that Venezuela should have taken advantage of Washington's desire to curtail American reliance on Middle East crude. They also say that measures like the recently approved hydrocarbon law, which increases royalties for private investors and gives the government a majority stake in joint ventures, will discourage the foreign investment necessary for developing new projects.
Managers and oil analysts, say that Venezuela has lost market share by clinging to quotas and curtailing spending on exploration, policies that are costing the country now that oil prices have stabilized and non-OPEC oil powers like Russia are likely to ratchet up production. Venezuelan oil production is now down to 2.5 million barrels a day.
"They have lost three or four years of productive capacity," said Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-supported consulting group in New York.
But most troubling for the company's 15,000 or so white-collar workers is Mr. Chavez's corporate management. The latest blow came late last month, when he fired Brig. Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, the company president Mr. Chavez himself appointed just 15 months before. The ouster of General Lameda, who had come to be respected for his merit-based policies and efforts to contain government meddling in the company, was followed by Mr. Chavez's appointments of five of seven members of the board.
"Every government has had maybe two or three in there at the board of directors, but this is a complete takeover," Mr. Ramirez said.
The new company president is Gaston Parra, an economics professor and former central bank president known for his sharp criticisms of foreign investment in the country's oil industry.
"It is like putting the pilot of a Cessna to fly a 747," said Samuel Wilhelm, a manager with 20 years at the company. "And that is grave for a company like ours."
Mr. Parra and government officials close to Mr. Chavez did not respond to requests for interviews.
Employees say the new leadership has awakened memories of another Pdvsa, led by Hector Ciavaldini, Mr. Lameda's predecessor, a close Chavez ally under whom promotions of workers seemed predicated on ties to the Chavez administration. About 1,000 office workers, many of them top-level administrators who had spent 20 years or more in the company, took early retirement or switched jobs during Mr. Ciavaldini's 13-month tenure, Mr. Lameda confirmed in an interview.
"When you see new people on the board and see how they got there, you wonder if it was merit or whom they knew," said Jose Garcia, who works in finances, has been at the company eight years and had hoped to be able to work his way up the ladder.
In Pdvsa, which has prided itself as a meritocracy, the changes at the top resonated like a sledgehammer. Managers quickly lambasted the changes in a newspaper advertisement, called a four-hour work stoppage on March 8 and followed with a work slowdown last week. They have threatened to strike unless Mr. Chavez rescinds the appointments of the board members, agreeing to a broader board that includes representatives from various Venezuelan institutions.
Fedepetrol, the union representing most of the production workers, has said it will strike if the white-collar workers do.
Mr. Chavez, in turn, has threatened to fire the protesters and send in the military to run the company if there is a strike.
Many analysts here, as well as workers at the company, do not believe that there will be a strike because of the disastrous consequences for both Pdvsa and the country. But the mere possibility that white-collar workers would walk out demonstrates the depths of the crisis.
"For the people of Petroleos de Venezuela to protest like they have signifies that they are very, very troubled, because these are people who are very prudent," said Maruja Tarre, director of the Energy Institute at Simon Bolivar University in Caracas.
Still, the dispute seems to have no end in sight, with the white-collar workers pleading for negotiations and government officials vowing not to bow to pressure.
"The two positions are hard," Mr. Lameda said. "Each has its own view, but I do not see an opening."
The company's new president and the board have posted a message on the company's Web site, calling for "serenity, in order to preserve the highest interests of the corporation and the continuity of its activities."
"Dialogue," the message adds, "is imperative in order to become familiarized with the real motivations of Pdvsa's board of directors and its intentions to forge creative work."
Meanwhile, Mr. Chavez's statements have continued to fan the flames.
Last week, he accused the company's managers of enjoying "gross privileges" and said that the state was paying for "luxurious chalets where they hold bacchanals and where the whiskey runs."
For workers at Pdvsa, the verbal assaults have no basis in reality.
"The technocrats, as they call us, have worked to get where we are," said Marjorie Gonzalez, an upper-level manager with 25 years' experience. "We have worked hard to make Pdvsa the company that it is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The protest involved thousands of marchers in the streets of Caracas. Some carried posters bearing a likeness of President Hugo Chavez. (Reuters); Early this month, top managers at Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. stopped work to protest what they said were attempts by President Hugo Chavez to politicize the state-owned company through a series of appointments. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); STRIKES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (83%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); RIOTS (60%); INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANTS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%) SIC2992 LUBRICATING OILS & GREASES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); GIUSTI, LUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



477 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Leader Hopes His Talks With Bush Will Unblock Aid 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 18 

 BODY:
Days before a scheduled summit meeting with President Bush, President Vicente Fox of Mexico said today that he hoped to end a months-long stalemate and make concrete advances in negotiations on immigration and American economic support for the poorest regions of his country.
 "We are ready and we hope to solidify some advances," Mr. Fox said in a late afternoon interview. 
 "Our final objective remains the same as we had defined at the beginning of the talks," he said, "but we understand that the matters of security and terrorism affected the speed of our progress."
The summit meeting is set for Friday in Monterrey, where both presidents will attend the United Nations Conference on Development.
Since he was elected more than 18 months ago, President Fox has pressed the United States to adopt agreements that among other things would: increase the number of guest workers hired in the agricultural and service industries; increase American economic support for development in Mexico's poorest regions -- particularly those that expel the largest number of illegal immigrants to the United States in search of work; and give legal status to some three million undocumented Mexicans living in the United States.
The negotiations were delayed by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. And many political observers predicted that American concerns about terrorism would plunder Mr. Fox's campaign by dousing support in Washington for opening the border to a freer flow of Mexican workers.
Responding to the crisis, Mexico added binational security measures to the negotiations. And, following a visit to Mexico by the United States homeland security director, Tom Ridge, Mexico and the United States are expected to reach agreements on measures aimed at making the border more secure without interrupting trade.
Six months after the attacks, there are signs that support for Mr. Fox's initiatives is regaining ground in the United States. Congressional leaders including Representative Richard A. Gephardt and Senator Tom Daschle recently wrote President Bush to urge that he move forward on an immigrant legalization plan.
And the House of Representatives passed a measure to extend a program that allows undocumented immigrants to stay in the United States while they apply for permanent residency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); REFUGEES (77%); TRENDS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); LEGISLATION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); THOMPSON, GINGER; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



478 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: When He Talks For Mexico, Washington Pays Attention 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 18 

 BODY:
One afternoon in Washington two summers ago, Jorge G. Castaneda sat down in the lobby of the Willard Hotel and explained what he and his newly elected president, Vicente Fox, had in mind for Mexico.
 From now on, he said, they would be setting the agenda with Washington on the great issues uniting and dividing the two nations: immigration, trade, economic development, even how to run their common border. 
 "These are big ideas," he said. "A vision." 
Audacious? Assuredly. Arrogant? Arguably. Mr. Castaneda, Mexico's foreign minister, is one undiplomatic diplomat. But he turned out, by and large, to be right: to a startling extent, his ideas have become the agenda.
A man with an unconcealed love of power and public life, Mr. Castaneda thinks out loud, fast and furious. But when his mouth gets him in trouble, his mind usually gets him out. He is no radical, not any more, but he is still trying to invent a new Mexico, one that deals eye to eye with the United States.
"Obviously the United States will be able to bring to bear more instruments, more power, than we can," he says. "But we also have cards to play. And we play them."
In joining Mr. Fox's cabinet, Mr. Castaneda became part of Mexico's first democratic government in many decades. Now, with President Bush coming to Mexico this week, Mr. Fox is counting on his foreign minister to turn that political prestige into hard gains for Mexico. 
Once a fierce opponent of Mexico's partnership with the American free-trade juggernaut, Mr. Castaneda is now going with the global flow. As a host to 57 heads of state in Monterrey at the United Nations conference on economic development this week, he proposes "putting a human face on the Washington consensus" -- that is, taming market fundamentalism to help the neediest nations.
In Mexico, an idea he championed of taxing food and medicine to finance programs for the poor was defeated by Mr. Fox's opposition. So Mr. Castaneda now advocates a "partnership for prosperity" with the United States, to increase direct American investment in Mexico. The goal is to draw more dollars south so that fewer poor Mexicans move north.
He made the White House change its terms of debate on immigration: it now speaks of "migrants," not "illegal immigrants," from Mexico and it will most likely grant legal status to more of them in the coming months.
A former professor at New York University, a tireless author and promoter of his ever-evolving ideas, Mr. Castaneda has for years tried to explain Mexico and the United States to each another. But explaining Jorge Castaneda confounds friends and enemies alike: he is eloquent but profane, intellectually rigid but politically as flexible as a Slinky toy.
"This is a diplomat unlike any other," said Robert Pastor, a former National Security Council aide, now a professor of international relations at Emory University. Mr. Pastor wrote a book with Mr. Castaneda on United States-Mexico relations, "Limits to Friendship," and he called the collaboration "exasperating, electrifying, infuriating, frustrating and great fun -- just like Jorge." 
A conversation with him can be a dazzling blur. He speaks supersonically (in Spanish, English or French), juggling a cup of espresso with a cellphone proffered every few minutes by a secretary. The ideas come so fast that a listener feels like ducking. 
They sometimes come too fast. Last month, Mr. Castaneda said in off-the-cuff comments at the inauguration of a Mexican cultural center in Miami that "the doors of the embassy and the doors of Mexico would be open, as they would be to any Cuban or Latin American citizen interested in visiting Mexico." Radio Marti, the station financed by the United States, beamed his words repeatedly into Cuba, where 21 young dissidents took them literally, occupying Mexico's Embassy. He opened the mission to Fidel Castro's police to get them out. 
It would seem that Mr. Castaneda was destined for diplomacy. He was raised in embassies by his mother, Naomi, a Jewish refugee from Russia, and schooled by his father, also named Jorge Castaneda, an ambassador who himself served as Mexico's foreign minister 25 years ago. The elder Castaneda died in 1997. 
"I learned a lot from him about how power works in this country and in this culture, how you have to both stand up every now and then for the things you really believed in, and how you also had to bend and bob and weave every now and then," Mr. Castaneda said over coffee a few mornings back. 
Armchair Freudians may appreciate the son's initial rebellion against his father and the system. He briefly joined Mexico's Communist Party, then worked with the center-left against the ruling system, attacking the powerful and receiving at least one death threat in return. 
But in the mid-1990's Mr. Castaneda was drawn to the improbable presidential bid of Mr. Fox, then the governor of Guanajuato State in central Mexico. It was a great leap for a not-quite-ex-leftist who had opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement to side with Mr. Fox, a conservative and ardent free-trader, Former friends on the left deemed him a traitor. But he helped Mr. Fox win by convincing people that a vote for him was basically a vote for change from the old regime.
Blurring right and left ideologies, Mr. Castaneda tilted Mr. Fox toward great promises of social and political justice -- "a more progressive, more socially minded, closer-to-the-people, kinder and gentler, investing-in-people type of thing," as Mr. Castaneda put it. 
Sixteen months into Mr. Fox's six-year term, the promised social change has been slow to materialize. In its relationship with the United States, however, Mexico has new stature, partly because of Mr. Castaneda's salesmanship.
Mr. Castaneda is already contemplating running for president himself. It is not easy to imagine a man whose tastes run to fancy suits and fine wines pressing the flesh in a dusty village. But then, a few years back, no one foresaw Mr. Castaneda standing shoulder to shoulder with the American secretary of state, whispering in his ear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge G. Castaneda has helped give Mexico new stature in its relationship with Washington. (Jorge Nunez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) CASTANEDA, JORGE G (MIN); WEINER, TIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



479 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Bush Revives Tax-Cut Plan Providing Aid To Businesses 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: O'FALLON, Mo., March 18 

 BODY:
Nine days after signing the second tax cut since he took office, President Bush today proposed a new round of cuts, intended largely for small businesses, a constituency he is heavily courting for the coming Congressional elections.
 Speaking at a small manufacturing company here on his way to a fund-raiser for a Republican seeking a critical seat in the Senate, Mr. Bush revived a plan that would increase the amount small businesses can deduct immediately for the purchase of equipment. The proposal would cost about $7 billion over 10 years, the White House said, a relatively small amount compared with other tax cuts. But to the dismay of small-business owners and workers, it was dropped at the last minute from the economic stimulus package that Congress passed this month. 
 Mr. Bush also called for a permanent repeal of the inheritance tax, which he calls the "death tax," at a cost of $104 billion over 10 years.
The timing of the proposals was clearly intended to signal that Mr. Bush will make continued tax cutting a major theme of his political appearances between now and the midterm elections that will determine control of Congress. And today, appearing on the factory floor of the Albers Manufacturing Company here, a small manufacturer of metal casings for equipment and an assembler of electric power equipment, Mr. Bush received roars of approval as he described even modest cuts intended for small businesses. His chief political adviser, Karl Rove, stood off to the side, smiling as the president spoke.
The proposals stand little chance of passing before the November elections, and Republican budget resolutions make little mention of these tax-cutting specifics. Republican leaders know that under even the most optimistic budget projections, further tax cuts are likely to force the government into new deficit spending, unless the economic recovery is stronger than expected. But Mr. Bush never discussed deficits today as he made his proposals.
"Let me put this in English, or Texan," he said, to laughter. "I'm trying to put in place something that will encourage" a business owner "to go buy a new piece of machinery."
Current laws allow companies that invest up to $200,000 in new equipment each year to deduct the first $25,000 immediately, while the remaining $175,000 must be depreciated over a number of years. Under Mr. Bush's proposal, companies making investments up to $325,000 a year could immediately deduct up to $40,000 of those investments.
The same tax break is also often used by artists, writers, real estate agents, photographers and others to deduct from their business income the cost of new computers or cameras or other equipment.
Mr. Bush received some of his biggest applause today when he urged Congress to permanently repeal the inheritance tax, which under existing law would evaporate to nothing in less than 10 years and then roar back to 2001 levels. But in talking about the issue earlier today, Mr. Bush had a hard time explaining the issue.
"I talked about making the death tax permanent," he told reporters, forcing the White House to insert a footnote in its official transcript saying "should read 'death tax repeal.' "
Mr. Bush also announced that the Treasury Department would soon announce final rules that allow service businesses with less than $10 million in business every year to simplify their accounting procedures and defer all tax payments until their income is actually received. That is part of Mr. Bush's campaign for tax simplification, a popular measure that costs the government relatively little, but enables the president to tell audiences, as he did today, that he is getting Washington off their backs.
Under another proposal, which Mr. Bush will discuss at greater length on Tuesday in a speech to entrepreneur women meeting in Washington, the White House will advocate allowing industry associations to pool their members to buy health insurance. That would allow smaller businesses the same kind of price breaks from insurance companies that larger companies routinely receive. Again, it would cost the government nothing. 
Mr. Bush combined today's trip here with a Senate fund-raiser for former Representative Jim Talent, a four-term member of the House who barely lost the race for Missouri governor in 2000. In that same election, the Republican incumbent, John Ashcroft, narrowly lost his race for re-election to Gov. Mel Carnahan, who died three weeks before the election. His widow, Jean, was appointed to the Senate for two years, and is now running as an incumbent Democrat.
With the Democrats holding the Senate by a single vote, Mr. Bush is eager to win back control, and tonight he helped raise roughly $1.5 million at the $1,000-a-plate dinner. The White House said that about $850,000 of that was in so-called soft money donations, the kind that would be banned under the campaign finance legislation that has passed the House and is being debated this week in the Senate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush was greeted yesterday at the St. Louis airport by Alex Hagen, 14, a reporter for his school newspaper who was prevented by the Secret Service from covering the president's visit in January. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); ESTATE TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (86%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (64%); PHOTOGRAPHY (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



480 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Quick Debate Is Expected For Campaign Finance Bill 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18 

 BODY:
The Senate opened debate today on a comprehensive overhaul of the campaign finance law in a drive to give the bill final approval and send it to President Bush by the end of the week.
 After a years-long struggle, strategists on both sides of the debate over money and politics say they believe that final passage of the bill to ban the national parties from accepting large, unlimited contributions from corporations, unions and individuals is now assured. 
 Avoiding a prolonged losing battle, the bill's chief opponent, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, indicated today that the Republicans could agree to end debate as early as Tuesday. Mr. McConnell and other opponents are now putting their energy into planning a court challenge. 
The opening debate this afternoon was perfunctory, with Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, the lone lawmaker to take to the floor on the issue. Mr. Feingold, a longtime champion of the measure along with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, told the Senate that the donations known as soft money had made the public skeptical of whether lawmakers were serving the public or were in the sway of large donors.
"As long as we allow soft money to exist, we risk damaging our credibility," he said.
To underscore his point Mr. Feingold spoke of fund-raising during the Clinton presidency, remembering how fund-raisers were rewarded with stays in the Lincoln Bedroom. He said the Senate had become suspect to voters as it considered legislation affecting industries like tobacco or telecommunications or health care, even while the parties took large contributions from such interests.
He also noted how the collapsed energy trading company Enron had spread donations all across Washington, including more than $3.5 million in soft money since 1991.
"The potential for a conflict of interest in a case like this is clear," Mr. Feingold said. "Many of the elected officials who were asked to sit in judgment on Enron, including members of Congress, the attorney general and the president of the United States have been accepting and even asking for campaign contributions from Enron for years."
Most senators were still straggling back to the Capitol from the weekend. None of the bill's opponents, mostly Republicans, spelled out their side of the issue. They have long argued that the bill abridges constitutionally protected free speech rights and will weaken the national political parties.
For years the campaign finance bill died in Republican-run Senate filibusters. But last year, Republicans let the measure come to a vote and the Senate approved it, 59 to 41. After a fierce struggle, the House too voted, 240 to 189, in favor of the bill last month despite the opposition of the Republican leadership. 
The Senate is now planning to vote on the House version of the bill so it can be given final passage and be sent straight to Mr. Bush.
"We think we have the votes to pass it," Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, the majority leader, said on Sunday. 
Some opponents say they still want the backers of the legislation to prove that they have the 60 votes needed to cut off a filibuster against the measure. Mr. Daschle today set up that test vote for Wednesday and said the Senate would probably resume debate on a separate energy bill until then.
Mr. Daschle has repeatedly threatened to keep the Senate in all-night sessions after Wednesday to overcome any effort to talk the campaign finance bill to death or use parliamentary maneuvers to stall it. But opponents of the bill appeared about ready to give up the fight. Mr. McConnell, who had blocked the bill from the floor for a month, said negotiations over some last technical changes to the bill proved fruitful this afternoon. He said opponents might agree to move the test vote up to Tuesday and then have a final vote on the bill after only a few hours of debate.
The campaign finance legislation, which would become effective after the November elections, would make the most comprehensive changes in the campaign finance law since the Watergate era. Besides banning the acceptance of soft money by the national parties, the bill would put restrictions on thinly veiled campaign commercials by outside groups 30 days before a primary election and 60 days before a general election.
In exchange for the ban on soft money, the bill would allow increases in smaller, more highly regulated campaign fund-raising for the first time since 1974. The bill would raise to $2,000 from $1,000 the longstanding limit on how much an individual could give federal candidates each election and subsequently index that limit for inflation.
It would also allow individuals to give limited soft-money contributions of up to $10,000 a year to state and local parties for voter registration and get-out-the-vote activities.
Mr. Bush sparred with Mr. McCain over the soft-money ban in the Republican presidential primaries in 2000. But the president's aides say they expect him to sign the bill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Russell D. Feingold conferred with aides in his office yesterday before going to the Senate to speak in favor of the campaign finance bill. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



481 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL IS LEAVING PALESTINIAN AREAS IN THE WEST BANK 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET and MICHAEL GORDON 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Tuesday, March 19 

 BODY:
Israeli ground forces began withdrawing early today from Palestinian-controlled territory in Bethlehem and two other West Bank towns, the Israeli Army said, as Israel moved under American pressure toward meeting Palestinian conditions for formal cease-fire talks.
 The withdrawal came during a visit by Vice President Dick Cheney, who arrived on Monday for meetings scheduled in advance with Israeli officials but not with any Palestinians, a planning discrepancy that had some annoyed Palestinians vowing not to meet with him. 
 The Israeli government decided to pull back after a rare joint session of Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs, drawn together by Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, who as the Bush administration's envoy here is pushing hard for a truce after two previous attempts failed.
As hulking tanks and armored personnel carriers rolled out of Bethlehem toward Israeli territory after midnight, Israel appeared to be signaling a halt, at least for as long as a cease-fire appears within reach, to its most sweeping assault since the invasion of Lebanon 20 years ago. 
Israel began storming Palestinian towns and refugee camps in the West Bank and Gaza Strip late last month, in what it described as a hunt for terrorists and munitions factories after devastating suicide attacks.
Mr. Cheney has been touring the region to garner Arab support for a possible war on Iraq. But he has instead found his trip dominated by appeals to address the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
At a ceremony outside Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office, Mr. Cheney reaffirmed the Bush administration's commitment to ending the violence after nearly 18 months and, ultimately, achieving a settlement under which Israel would live peacefully beside a Palestinian state.
"To realize that vision," Mr. Cheney said, "the Israeli people must have confidence that their existence as a Jewish state living within secure borders is accepted by all, first and foremost by Israel's neighbors in the region." 
Mr. Cheney, who rode with General Zinni from the airport to his first meeting with Mr. Sharon, said he would speak to the prime minister about "steps that Israel can take to alleviate the devastating economic hardship being experienced by innocent Palestinian men, women and children."
Mr. Sharon said Israel was "making every effort to reach an immediate cease-fire."
Early this morning, the army said its forces were moving out of the neighboring towns of Bethlehem and Beit Jala, just south of here, and also drawing back from positions on the outskirts of Jenin, in the northern West Bank. The army said forces were also pulling out Beit Hanoun, in the Gaza Strip.
The withdrawal appeared to meet American requirements of Israel, but American officials were unsure that it would be enough to placate the Palestinian leadership and produce a cease-fire. Palestinian officials have been pressing Israel to pull its forces out of all Palestinian-controlled territory.
Together with General Zinni, Mr. Cheney met again Monday night with Mr. Sharon, over dinner, and planned to see the prime minister early today as well.
But Mr. Cheney's visit, scheduled to last 24 hours, was clouded by a misunderstanding with the Palestinian leadership, stemming from a decision not to schedule visits with any Palestinians in advance.
The vice president's aides said he had left room on his schedule for a possible session with Palestinians this morning, but Palestinian officials expressed irritation at what they described as a slight. They said no one but Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, would agree now to meet with Mr. Cheney.
"At this point, I don't think anybody will meet him if he doesn't meet President Arafat," said Nabil Aburdeineh, a close aide to Mr. Arafat.
Mr. Cheney's aides did not rule out such a meeting, though they called it highly unlikely. It would represent a victory for Mr. Arafat and a blow to Mr. Sharon, who has called the Palestinian leader irrelevant. 
President Bush has refused to meet so far with Mr. Arafat or even to shake his hand, and Mr. Cheney suggested on landing on Monday that the Palestinian leader was still not doing nearly enough to combat terrorism. "We continue to call upon Chairman Arafat to live up to his commitment, to renounce once and for all the use of violence as a political weapon," he said.
Before withdrawing from Bethlehem and Beit Jala, Israel sought assurances that Palestinian security forces would stop Palestinian gunmen who have been firing on areas of Jerusalem that Israel occupied during the 1967 war. 
Officials familiar with the negotiations said Palestinians were pushing for further Israeli concessions, including a withdrawal from other areas occupied by Israeli troops that by treaty are supposed to be under Palestinian control. But Mr. Aburdeineh indicated Monday evening that if Israel fulfilled its stated plans, that might be enough to permit formal cease-fire talks.
"Seeing is believing," he said. "Let's wait and see. If they withdraw, then we will talk."
Though progress was slow and he was still skeptical of success, Mr. Aburdeineh said, "For sure we are moving in the right direction."
Even so, two crude rockets, manufactured by the Islamic group Hamas, were fired on Monday from Gaza, landing south of the city of Ashkelon, the Israeli Army said. No one was injured, but Dore Gold, a spokesman for Mr. Sharon, called the attack "a deeply disturbing development." The Israeli Army and border police officials also reported intercepting Palestinian gunmen heading for cities or settlements.
Otherwise, Monday was relatively calm in Israel, the West Bank and Gaza, with all sides cautioning against expectations for an imminent breakthrough.
The next Israeli-Palestinian-American security meeting is not scheduled to take place until Wednesday. Monday's meeting was the first led by General Zinni since early January. In a statement, he called it "professional, serious and constructive."
Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, suggested on Monday night that if the progress continued, Israel would permit Mr. Arafat to attend a summit meeting of Arab nations next week in Beirut, Lebanon. "If this continues, I believe Arafat will be able to travel to Beirut," he said.
Before he left Kuwait on Monday, Mr. Cheney came under pressure to prevail upon the Israelis to let Mr. Arafat attend the meeting. "This would be a credit to the United States that it has something for the brothers in Palestine," said Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, first deputy prime minister of Kuwait.
American officials deflected questions about Mr. Arafat's attendance, saying that it was not their decision.
Mr. Sharon sought once again on Monday to stress his view that the United States and Israel were fighting the same conflict with the same methods. "Terrorism is terrorism is terrorism anywhere in the world," he said. "There is no 'good terrorism' or 'bad terrorism.' "
But there has been a shift in the American approach here. After months of pressing only Mr. Arafat to end violence, the administration pushed Mr. Sharon last week to stop the offensive into Palestinian territory, which resulted in the deaths of dozens of Palestinians, including civilians. 
The administration's change is one of nuance. American officials have continued to demand in the first place a cease-fire, to be achieved through talks focused on security. But they have also begun putting weight on a so-called political horizon for the Palestinians, in an effort to assure them that a halt to the violence will advance their nationalist goals. 
On Monday, Mr. Cheney spoke of resuming "a political process that will end the half-century of conflict."
Palestinian officials have been heartened by the American shift, and by a United Nations resolution envisioning a Palestinian state that cleared the General Assembly last week with American sponsorship. But they said they were still waiting to see whether the new language would be accompanied by a substantive change in negotiations. 
Diplomats here said that a willingness to address Palestinians' political concerns accounted for the headway that General Zinni had made. "He's come with a much, much better sense of reality," said one diplomat sympathetic to the Palestinians. 
One Western observer here, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Bush administration had discovered that security talks would fail without the prospect of political progress.
"What's changed is that the situation got increasingly and dramatically worse," he said, "and there was an increasing realization in the administration that as unpleasant as these issues are, and as intractable as they at least seem, you can't ignore them. At a certain point, realities impose themselves, even on a superpower."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Palestinian children, top, watched an armored vehicle yesterday in Beit Jala in the West Bank as Israeli troops withdrew from Palestinian-controlled territory. Vice President Dick Cheney, in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, right, reaffirmed the White House's commitment to ending violence in the region. (James Estrin/The New York Times); (Musa al-Shaer/Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); After a meeting of security chiefs organized by Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, left, Israel began to pull out of three West Bank towns, including Bethlehem. (Associated Press); (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of Israel highlighting Bethlehem: Early this morning the Israelis were moving out of Bethlehem. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); REFUGEES (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); RIOTS (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%) BENNET, JAMES; GORDON, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); ZINNI, ANTHONY C (GEN); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; BETHLEHEM (WEST BANK); JENIN (WEST BANK); BEIT JALA (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



482 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Russia Steps Toward Banking Overhaul 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 18 

 BODY:
When the Parliament votes this week to confirm President Vladimir V. Putin's nominee to run the central bank, it will also be voting to begin the long-delayed transformation of Russia's financial system into one that can serve a modern economy, analysts and investors said. 
 Mr. Putin's choice of Sergei Ignatyev, 54, a deputy finance minister with a reputation for honesty, competence and pragmatism, met with widespread approval when it was announced late last week. Mr. Ignatyev will succeed Viktor Geraschenko, whose t two terms or more than five years as central bank governor were spent obstructing change. Mr. Ignatyev is expected to bring a spirit of cooperation with the government in modernizing Russian banking and finance. 
 "It's a huge win for the reformists," said Peter Boone, chief economist at Brunswick UBS Warburg, an investment bank in Moscow. "Over the past 10 years, the central bank has been antagonistic against the government. It's a sign that Putin wants a unified team. It sends the message: 'You have to look forward and reform.' "
Mr. Putin has been reining in or getting rid of obstreperous officials in crucial positions in the economy. A year ago, he installed an ally after evicting the longtime chief executive of Gazprom, the immense natural gas company, which is 38 percent state owned. Earlier this year, he reshuffled the railroad ministry, which has been riddled with favoritism and insider dealing. 
On paper, Russia's central bank serves much the same purpose as the Federal Reserve in the United States, setting monetary policy and regulating banks. But Russia's financial system is young, small for the size of the economy and lacking in sophistication and resources. So interest rate policy is all but irrelevant, and the central bank's main role has been in currency exchange and management of reserves. 
The bank's oversight functions were left to drift under Mr. Geraschenko, who was reappointed in 1998 after the ruble's value plunged and Russia defaulted on some debt. At that time, officials said the country had too many banks with too little capital, while a handful of large state-run institutions like Sberbank retained unfair advantages over private banks.
Mr. Geraschenko never fulfilled hopes for an overhaul of the sector. Years of bank failures have left many Russians unwilling to trust their savings to banks. The banks say lending is risky because ramshackle Russian laws and courts leave them with little chance of collecting from deadbeat borrowers. Midsize companies say they cannot get loans. 
These weaknesses have not stopped the economy -- it has expanded every year since 1998 -- but they have been a drag on growth, Mr. Boone said. 
Enter Mr. Ignatyev, who has spent a decade in senior posts in Russia's ministries of finance and economics. Most recently, as first deputy finance minister, he concentrated on closing loopholes in tax and customs rules to reduce evasion. 
"He is meticulous, and also completely honest -- that's pretty rare," said Oleg V. Vyugin, a former colleague of Mr. Ignatyev who is now chief economist at Troika Dialog, an investment bank in Moscow. "He's very modest. He works in the interests of the government."
Mr. Ignatyev spelled out some of his intentions in an interview in today's Vremya Novostei, a Moscow daily. 
In contrast with Mr. Geraschenko's tenure, when the central bank refused to tell the government how it spent its budget and when the International Monetary Fund said the bank had lied about how it used a tiny offshore company to regulate its reserves, Mr. Ignatyev promised much greater openness and accountability. 
He also hinted that the government would eventually start selling the big banks it controls, a move that reform advocates have called for many times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei Ignatyev is expected to be confirmed this week as the governor of Russia's central bank. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (67%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (52%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (67%); GAZP (RTS) (67%); SBER (RTS) (52%); SBER (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; IGNATYEV, SERGEI; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); GERASCHENKO, VIKTOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



483 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OUTLOOK; 
Cloud Over Pakistan: Is Musharraf's Life Safe?

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 18 

 BODY:
While most of the people killed or wounded in the attack on a church here on Sunday were foreigners, there is little question that a principal target was the government of Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who has become one of the point men in the Bush administration's war on terrorism.
 In firmly enlisting with the United States, the Pakistani leader took great risks. This is a nation where there is a residual resentment toward Washington, arising out of earlier American policies, and where there was considerable support for the Taliban among the people -- and from the government before Sept. 11. 
 Now the question is whether he can survive. Not just politically, but even physically. When assessing General Musharraf's predicament, many Pakistanis and foreign diplomats solemnly mention Anwar el-Sadat, the Egyptian leader who was cut down by opponents of his policy of making peace with Israel.
"There are people out there who would like to see him dead," said a veteran diplomat here, referring to Pakistan's Islamic militants. Though few in number, they are "bitter, nasty and organized," he said.
A more immediate question is how the attack on Sunday -- in which two of the five people killed were Americans -- will affect General Musharraf's decision whether to transfer Ahmed Omar Sheikh, the main suspect in the killing of the American journalist Daniel Pearl, to United States custody. 
It is a microcosm of his larger dilemma. To surrender Mr. Sheikh, who was indicted in the United States last week, will surely set off more terrorist acts here, diplomats and Pakistani political leaders said. Not to surrender him will create the impression that the general is giving in to threats of terrorism.
The government may have other reasons not to give up Mr. Sheikh, including reports that he has links to Pakistan's main intelligece agency.
After Sunday's attack, the Bush administration issued a caution message to Americans around the world. "The U.S. government continues to receive credible reports that extremist individuals are planning additional terrorist actions against U.S. interests," the State Department said. "Such actions may be imminent and include suicide operations."
There are conflicting reports from the police here on what happened Sunday. One of the dead had has not been identified, in part because his body was charred and shredded by the explosion. The blast, which left more than 50 people killed or wounded, was so powerful that it sent the man's body parts to the ceiling of the church, 40 feet above the floor, leaving huge blood spots.
That has led to reports in local newspapers that what occurred was a suicide attack, but a senior police investigator said in an interview today that it was not clear if it was a suicide mission or -- if it turns out that the unidentified man was the attacker -- whether something had gone awry.
The F.B.I. has sent a team to help with the investigation, and the police emphasized that the investigation was only beginning.
President Bush has said repeatedly that the war on terrorism is going to be a long one. Noplace, perhaps, is that more evident than here. In the short term, few doubt that there will be more terrorist acts and that the police, poorly paid and inadequately trained, are simply not able to prevent them.
But in the long run, the question posed often here is whether the United States is prepared to give Pakistan the help it needs, which is more economic than military. 
The biggest and most immediate boost would be a suspension of import duties on Pakistani textiles, which are about 85 percent of Pakistan's exports. Congress has refused to go along with such a suspension. 
At the same time, is General Musharraf willing to undertake some of the changes needed to win the war, such as forcing the elite to pay taxes, reducing the military budget and increasing spending on education?
Poverty and illiteracy are the terrorist organizations' incubators. Half of this country's population is illiterate, and a third gets by on less than $1 a day. The government spends 40 percent of its budget making payments on the national debt, which was run up by American-backed governments, and 30 percent is spent on defense.
General Musharraf, who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999, appears determined to stay the course. He signed on, in part, because he had no real choice: the Bush administration left no room for neutrality.
"It was pure, unadulterated self-interest -- national interest," said a Western diplomat who admires the general.
His support for the American war against the Taliban was an abrupt and dramatic reversal of the previous policy of support for the Taliban. Then he went after extremist groups at home, which existed and flourished because of support from elements within the Pakistani military and intelligence apparatus.
He banned several, rounded up hundreds of suspected terrorists and has begun to rein in the main intelligence agency, though that will be a long, slow process.
Now the Islamic extremists are striking back.
"There are religious elements who are not happy with General Musharraf and his support to the Americans, and they would like to create a wedge between the Pakistani government and the United States," said Kamal Matinuddin, a retired three-star general and former diplomat.
Mr. Matinuddin, the director of the Institute of Strategic Studies in Islamabad, said he did not think the general was in danger of being toppled. The Islamic extremists have very little popular support, he said, a view that is supported by the fact that they have been able to muster only paltry demonstrations against General Musharraf's policies since Sept. 11.
Many here have been surprised by how little support the Islamic militants enjoy in this country, which is 95 percent Muslim. A wide range of political and religious leaders have condemned the Sunday attack.
But it does not take great numbers, of course, to carry out acts of terrorism.
On Wednesday, General Musharraf is meeting with his top military, police and intelligence officials as well as provincial governors. He is expected to ban more militant organizations, seal their offices and freeze their bank accounts.
The actions will have the support of the largest political party, the People's Party of Pakistan, which is headed by former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was forced out of office under a cloud of corruption allegations and now lives in exile.
"We think the government must crack down harder on these groups," said Farhatullah Babar, the party's spokesman. "Any letup will encourage these groups to strike again."
"This is a clear warning shot to the government" of the consequences should it hand over Mr. Sheikh, he said of Sunday's attack. "If he does not extradite him," Mr. Babar said, "it will also give a signal to these people who will think it is because of their threats. It might even embolden them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The attack on a Pakistan church on Sunday took the lives of five people including Barbara Green, right, and her daughter, Kristen Wormsley, left. Also seen here are Mrs. Green's husband, Milton, and son, Zachary. (Florida Times-Union via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); TALIBAN (78%); RELIGION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); WRITERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



484 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Say Budget Cuts Would Create Case Backlog 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM 

 BODY:
Manhattan District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau, speaking on behalf of the city's five district attorneys and a special narcotics prosecutor, told the City Council yesterday that the Bloomberg administration's proposed budget cuts would force prosecutors to "significantly reduce" the number of lawyers in their offices.
 He said such a move could leave prosecutors unable to handle all of the cases referred to them. 
 Testifying before the City Council's Public Safety Committee, Mr. Morgenthau, who has been the Manhattan district attorney since 1975 and is the dean of New York's prosecutors, suggested that the proposed cuts were shortsighted, saying that effective law enforcement had contributed greatly to the city's economic renaissance over the last decade. 
Flanked by his fellow district attorneys and the narcotics prosecutor, Mr. Morgenthau said that arrests made by the police are not meaningful unless they are followed by prosecutions and, if appropriate, a jail or prison sentence.
"We have to have the resources to follow up on those arrests," he said, adding that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed cuts could lead to "revolving door justice."
"If the police make arrests and there's nobody available to prosecute those cases, people will be back out on the street," he said. Allowing suspects to quickly regain their freedom, he said, would waste police resources and disillusion the law-abiding community .
Mr. Morgenthau's fellow prosecutors, who answered questions from the members of the public safety committee, said they had decided that the Manhattan district attorney should make a joint statement on their behalf because of what they felt was the gravity of the issue.
Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, compared the criminal justice system to a funnel, with arrests coming in at the wide end before filtering down toward prosecution.
He said that because budget cuts to the Police Department are not expected to significantly reduce the number of arrests, any cut to the prosecutors budgets that would reduce staffing would create a logjam and increase the amount of time between arrests and arraignments, taking police officers off patrol for longer periods of time to process arrests.
The prosecutors each argued that because their budgets are relatively small, the proposed cut would hit them much harder than larger agencies, like the Police Department, which has a $3.3 billion budget.
William L. Murphy, the Staten Island district attorney, who has a 6.2 million budget, the smallest of the six prosecutors, is facing a cut under Bloomberg's proposal of $427,000. He said federal funding that his office had previously used to supplement city funding has dried up after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. "The federal trough has basically been closed," Mr. Murphy said.
Brigit G. Brennan, a special narcotics prosecutor, who has a $14 million budget and is facing a $1 million reduction, said she was concerned that the cuts would affect the ability of her office to conduct long-term investigations.
Mr. Morgenthau's budget, at $68 million, is the largest of the city's five district attorneys', and he faces a $4.8 million cut. Brooklyn District Attorney Charles J. Hynes, with a $67.7 million budget, is facing a $4.7 million reduction. The Bronx district attorney's office has a $40 million budget and is facing a $2.8 million cut and Mr. Brown's office in Queens has a $35 million budget and is facing a $2.6 million cut.
Edward Skyler, Mayor Bloomberg's press secretary, defended the cuts. "New York City is in the midst of a fiscal crisis," he said. "Our uniformed public safety agencies are sharing in the sacrifice and the district attorneys must as well."
Peter F. Vallone, the Democrat from Queens who heads the Public Safety Committee, said after the hearing that he accepted the prosecutors' contention that they would be unable to properly perform their duties with the proposed reductions.
"I don't believe their budget should be cut any further," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); RASHBAUM, WILLIAM K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002 



485 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Arctic Oil Security 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman (column, March 15) asserts that America's oil and natural gas companies are apathetic about gaining access to the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. In fact, the industry has long championed responsible development of domestic energy sources, including the refuge, that will help reduce imports, increase jobs and fuel economic growth. 
Homeland and national security considerations make this even more important.
 Mr. Krugman doesn't acknowledge the revolution in technology that has been sweeping the oil industry for more than a decade, providing more efficient and environmentally sensitive operations. The government study he cites reflects mid-1990's conditions. The technologies in the Arctic refuge will be more than a decade further advanced when deployed. 
 The refuge holds the potential to provide half the oil we now import from the Persian Gulf and to enhance our national energy security for the next quarter century.

RED CAVANEY
President and Chief Executive
American Petroleum Institute
Washington, March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WILDLIFE (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%) AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) CAVANEY, RED; KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



486 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2437 words

HEADLINE: The Small-Plate Club 

BYLINE:  By MARIAN BURROS 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
ON a recent warm evening at A Cote, a tiny new restaurant in Oakland, a stylish, electric young crowd was standing nose to nose, drinks in hand, spilling over into the aisles and cheerfully waiting to claim tiny tables. Once seated, they would cover their tables with tiny plates of food of almost every description: mussels with Pernod, saffron pappardelle with rabbit, broccoli raab flatbread, skate wing with beets. And they would sip "flights" of four tiny glasses of wine.
 In the Bay Area, a new breed of restaurant is on the rise: places that are devoted entirely to serving small portions of serious food. The cooking styles are all over the map -- Italian, French, Greek, Southwestern, Hawaiian, Asian -- often on the same menu. Eating from everyone else's plate is not just acceptable, it's required. You can order half of a petit "rack" of lamb at Isa in San Francisco. Or the "taco" of ahi tartare in a crisp little potato shell and a side of curly polenta fries at Andalu. The restaurants even have their own miniature cut of steak -- called the flatiron, it's about the size of half a chicken breast. 
 The Internet community has been given most of the credit for starting the small-plate phenomenon, an outgrowth of tapas bars, dim sum parlors and Indian restaurants in Silicon Valley where ordering appetizers and beer was de rigueur for the young Turks in such a hurry to remake the world they had no time to sit down to three courses. Now, oddly enough, the dot-com bust of the last year or so seems only to have contributed to the popularity of the places, where an entire convivial evening can be spent over plates of food that cost $3 to $14.
Some also credit a higher culinary influence; specifically, Thomas Keller, the pioneering chef at the French Laundry in the Napa Valley. Mr. Keller believes that after three bites of anything you stop tasting it and it's time to move on. He is famous for creating intricate nine-course meals, with each dish amounting to no more than a bite or two.
And the trend is showing signs of spreading. This summer, Suzanne Goin, the chef and owner of Lucques in Los Angeles, plans to open a new spot on Third Street there that will feature charcuterie and cheese as well as small plates. 
"It's a generational thing," Ms. Goin said. "We want to be a little more flexible, more casual and accessible. It's a way to get good food and wine without committing to a full dinner. It's sort of like a food bar."
It is probably no coincidence that the original incarnation of the grazing fad 15 years ago took hold when the economy was also on the skids. But today there is an added factor: a reaction to years of lavish dining and to portions that seem to be growing all the time. The casual friendliness of these places seems to be hitting the right note, too. Most don't take reservations, and the result isn't a crowd of impatient, hungry people but a continuous cocktail party scene -- San Franciscans, unlike New Yorkers, don't seem to mind a wait.
Two weeks after Sept. 11, Andalu opened in the Mission District, and the owners were nervous. "We were very scared about it," said Ben de Vries, the chef and a partner. "But people want a place where they can forget about other things for a while and just have a good time."
Despite the fact that restaurants all over the city were -- and still are -- struggling, Andalu was an immediate success. Under a sky-blue ceiling complete with clouds, the restaurant has become one of the city's coolest hangouts. It is bursting with energy.
Karen Dufilho, a movie producer who was dining at A Cote, said that fancy restaurants seem passe. "A few weeks ago, I went to one of those San Francisco restaurants that had been on my must-go list for six months," she said. "It was too much money, too much of the corporate expense account scene."
Eleanor Bertino, who specializes in public relations for restaurants and food, finds huge entrees daunting. "I like to order two or three appetizers instead, and I know a lot of people who do that now," she said. "But they used to feel a little embarrassed about it, like they were cheap. Today, people feel freer to order whatever they want."
The most expensive dish I had at any of the new restaurants was $14. Some were as little as $3 -- and provided two or three bites. But most cost $8 to $11 and were almost as large as a typical entree. Two plates were usually sufficient for dinner, making it possible to get in and out for $20 plus a glass of wine.
Still, if you make an evening of it, and order enough, "the bill can go high," said Pascal Rigo, who opened Chez Nous on Fillmore Street two years ago and is now in the process of opening several more small-plate restaurants in San Francisco and elsewhere in California. "I would not say small plates are cheap. They could be, but I think you order one too many dishes because you don't know when to stop, so you go for another and another. The bill is $30 to $35 plus wine." And that's at a restaurant where nothing costs more than $9.50 at lunch.
Chez Nous's decor is plain pipe rack. It's name is French, but the menu embraces wider geographical boundaries, ranging across the Mediterranean, from the bold sunny flavors of gnocchi with fava beans, mushrooms and pancetta in a nutmeg-scented cream to flaky phyllo turnovers filled with feta, leeks and spinach. Perfect French fries, too. 
Comfort food is also big on these menus: chicken pot pie, hanger steak with Bordelaise sauce, spring rolls and noodles, but not in portions that make you blanch (and then eat it all anyway). French fries, though, are still mounded high.
On a sunny winter afternoon, Betelnut Pejiu Wu on Union Street seemed more like a coffeehouse than the full-service restaurant it is. Three young women, one with a baby, were sitting outside, gossiping, eating a light lunch and taking turns dandling the baby. At another table, two men were talking business over several small plates. At 4 o'clock, a handsome young couple, oozing success, drove up in their sparkling BMW coupe and ordered drinks and an early dinner.
"A lot of people who don't have regular hours can come in and have a nosh," said Daniel Sarov, one of the managers. "They think, 'I'm not really eating a meal.' "
Pejiu Wu means beer house, and today beer houses are found all over Asia. With its ceiling fans and dark woods, I thought Sidney Greenstreet might turn up, maybe to try the chicken version of Cecilia Chiang's famous minced squab in lettuce leaves. Or perhaps a perfectly executed scallion hot cake, the traditional Chinese multileaved bread served with a spicy chili sauce; crisp, greaseless spring rolls served with nuoc cham, the Vietnamese dipping sauce made with fish sauce; or delightfully tender wok-charred squid. The restaurant has a new chef -- Alexander Ong -- who certainly knows his way around an Asian kitchen.
Isa, in the Marina District, was just a tiny storefront until it added a covered garden and heaters in the back. And what the owners, Luke and Kitty Sung, are serving is often quite sophisticated: two bites of a memorable crisply seared foie gras was accompanied by rhubarb marmalade and strawberries. Tender grilled calamari and flageolets with olive oil, preserved lemon and honey flavored with cloves and coriander was surprisingly subtle.
Andalu, in the Mission District, was named for the birthplace of Spanish tapas but has very little Spanish food on its menu. It does have sensational ahi tartare tacos, made with a transparent fried potato slice. A bite of the crisp polenta fries uncovers a creamy center, and the pork roulade -- really a sausage -- is a nice marriage of mashed potatoes and apples.
The most popular dish at A Cote in Oakland is the succulent mussels, beautifully perfumed and enriched with Pernod and served with marvelous bread for dipping. If moules are here, can frites be far behind? And the French fries are irresistible. But so is the broccoli raab flatbread, which will make believers out of those who turn up their noses at the bitter green. The steak comes from the flatiron, a relatively new cut intended to make the shoulder meat tender, and it is.
"We come and we sit at the communal table and we order lots of dishes, so we have that many more interactions with the wait staff," said David Edward, a retired carpenter who was eating at A Cote. "Everybody's talking to each other. Everybody's enjoying themselves. That's what a restaurant is supposed to be about."
At a time when money is tight, this style of restaurant is equally appealing to the restaurateur: the capital investment and operating costs are much smaller than for a traditional restaurant. The kitchen can be postage-stamp size; the menu is limited. There is no need for a big walk-in refrigerator; there is less inventory. The staff is not constrained by timing, which takes off the pressure; dishes are sent out when they are ready. The tables turn more quickly. The workers do not need to be as skilled; there is no need for a pastry chef -- desserts are nice but not the point. A wine and beer license is all that is necessary, and it costs far less than a full liquor license. 
Small plates have become so popular that even some full-service restaurants, like the dazzling new Bacar in the South of Market neighborhood, have added them to their menus. Bacar is one of the few places to survive in an area that was supposed to be the new Silicon Valley but borders now on a no man's land. Its foie gras and duck with white beans and its roasted mussels were superb. 
On the other hand, some of the small-plate restaurants are beginning to think bigger.
"There are some people who can't get used to the concept," said Mr. Sung of Isa, "so I started adding a little more starch on the steak plate."

POLENTA FRIES WITH SPICY TOMATO VINAIGRETTE
Adapted from Andalu, San Francisco
Time: 1 hour, plus 1 to 2 hours' chilling

For the tomato vinaigrette:
2 medium onions, peeled and diced
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
16 ounces canned whole plum tomatoes, drained
1 cup loosely packed fresh basil leaves
2 small bay leaves
1/4 cup sherry vinegar
2 1/4 teaspoons cayenne pepper

For the polenta fries:
5 tablespoons butter
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 pound regular polenta
1/4 pound grana Padano cheese, finely grated
Flour for dusting
Vegetable oil for frying.

1. Prepare tomato vinaigrette: In a medium saucepan, combine onions and 1/4 cup olive oil. Cover, and place over medium-low heat. Cook until onions are tender but not colored, about 5 minutes. Add tomatoes, and break apart with a wooden spoon. Add basil and bay leaves, and reduce heat to low. Simmer, covered, until tomatoes are soft, about 30 minutes. Set aside to cool.
2. Remove and discard bay leaves. In a blender, combine tomato mixture, sherry vinegar, cayenne pepper and remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil. Blend until smooth. Transfer to a serving bowl, and set aside at room temperature.
3. Prepare polenta: Use 1 tablespoon butter to grease a 12-by-17-inch jellyroll pan or baking sheet; set aside. In a large saucepan, bring 2 quarts of lightly salted water to a boil. While stirring constantly, pour in polenta in a thin, fine stream. Continue to stir until mixture is smooth. Cover, and reduce heat to low. Allow polenta to cook until thickened, stirring frequently, about 25 minutes. When polenta is thick, stir in cheese, remaining 4 tablespoons butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Immediately pour into buttered pan, spreading evenly with a wet spatula. Allow to cool, then refrigerate until chilled and firm, 1 to 2 hours.
4. Turn chilled polenta onto a surface lightly dusted with flour. Using a 3-inch scalloped cookie cutter, cut polenta into circles, and cut each circle in half to make half-moons. Lightly dust with flour, and set aside.
5. Place a large skillet over high heat, and fill with about 1 1/2 inches oil. Bring oil to 350 degrees; use a thermometer or test by dropping a bit of chilled polenta in oil, which should sizzle and begin to brown. Working in batches, place floured half-moons in an even layer in pan. When they are crisp and golden brown on undersides, turn with a spatula to brown other sides, 10 to 15 minutes total frying time. Drain on paper towels. Serve very hot, accompanied by tomato vinaigrette.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings (46 fries and about 2 1/4 cups sauce).

BLACK MUSSELS WITH FRESNO CHILIES, GARLIC AND WHITE WINE
Adapted from Isa, San Francisco
Time: about 1 hour

1 ripe medium-size tomato
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, more for oiling tomato
2 pounds Prince Edward Island or other meaty black mussels
3 1-inch pieces cored, seeded Fresno chilies
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon chopped shallots
1 tablespoon chopped garlic
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup dry white wine
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons chopped fresh Italian parsley leaves.

1. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Halve tomato, and coat lightly with olive oil. Roast until shrunken and lightly browned but still moist, 30 to 45 minutes.
2. Select a covered saute pan large enough to hold mussels in a single layer. Place pan over high heat, and heat 1 tablespoon olive oil until smoking. Add mussels, chilies, butter, shallots, garlic and 1 tablespoon roasted tomato (reserve any extra for another use). Season with pepper to taste. Stir for about 30 seconds.
3. Add wine and cover immediately. When steam begins to emerge from pan, wait 15 seconds then remove lid. Allow alcohol to vaporize and broth to reduce.
4. Add lemon juice, remaining tablespoon olive oil and parsley. Toss, and transfer to a warmed serving bowl. Serve immediately.

Yield: 4 servings.

SUN-DRIED ANCHOVIES WITH PEANUTS AND CHILIES
Adapted from Betelnut Pejiu Wu, San Francisco
Time: 8 minutes

Vegetable oil
1 cup sun-dried anchovies, also known as ikan bilis or ikan teri (available in Asian markets)
1 cup roasted (cocktail) peanuts
1 cup scallion whites, finely chopped
1 tablespoon finely chopped garlic
1 tablespoon finely chopped hot red chilies
Kosher salt and ground white pepper.

1. Place a large wok or saucepan over high heat, and add vegetable oil to a depth of about 2 inches. When oil is medium-hot, drop 1 anchovy in oil; it should crisp in about 1 minute. Adjust heat accordingly, and add remaining anchovies. When crisp, transfer to paper towels to drain; set aside.
2. Lightly oil a different large wok or saute pan, and place over medium-high heat. Add peanuts, scallions, garlic and chilies. Stir-fry until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Remove from heat, add anchovies and season with salt and pepper to taste.
3. To serve, place equal portions on each of four serving plates. Serve hot.

Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROOM FOR ONE MORE? -- Small plates with different types of food crowd a restaurant table at A Cote in Oakland, Calif. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1); MINIATURE STEAKS, TOO -- The young crowd at A Cote in Oakland, Calif., above, fills up on small plates of food. Below left, ahi tartare tacos, chicken pot pie and polenta fries at Andalu, and, below right, oysters and rack of lamb at Isa, both in San Francisco. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); WINE (89%) RESTAURANTS 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



487 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: An Orchestra That Won't Give Up; 
The Players Own It, And Took a Pay Cut

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
When the Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra faced a budget crunch in the summer of 2001, its members made an extraordinary decision. Rather than shorten their season, find a less expensive music director or allow the firing of some musicians, they voted themselves a pay cut.
 This would be all but unthinkable in more traditional orchestras, but it was precisely in keeping with the style this one has developed. The Louisiana Philharmonic is the only symphony orchestra in the United States that is owned and operated by its musicians. They do everything from choosing conductors to approving the advertising budget. 
 "A lot of other orchestras are interested in our model," Ann Cohen, a cellist, said. "They don't necessarily want to go as far as we did, but especially after they go through bruising labor disputes, they want to hear how we've gotten everyone to work so well together here." 
"Our model isn't perfect or ideal," Ms. Cohen said. "Certainly our musicians would be happier with any arrangement that would increase their salaries. And musicians anywhere find it easier just to come in, sit down, play the concert and go home.
"But a lot of orchestras are looking at huge deficits and realizing they can't operate that way any more. Musicians have a responsibility to their audience and their communities to go out and sell the orchestra. That's something we in New Orleans have learned how to do."
Ms. Cohen was a key figure in the orchestra's rebirth. It collapsed in 1990 after 60 years of continuous operation, an especially sad development in a city that was once a citadel of classical music. But the financial pressures that brought down the orchestra, then known as the New Orleans Symphony, did not daunt a group of musicians who met over Ms. Cohen's kitchen table and plotted to revive it as a cooperative.
In 1992 they returned to the stage for a 16-week season. They also swept floors, answered phones and raised money.
Now, a decade later, the orchestra has 69 members (expanding to as many as 90 for special events), a budget of $3.95 million, 1,200 subscribers and more than 500 active volunteers. It plays a 36-week season while accompanying local opera and ballet companies, performing regularly for schoolchildren and traveling throughout Louisiana.
"There was absolutely pure democracy at the beginning," said Hugh W. Long, president of the orchestra's board. "The length of our meetings and the debates over detail were legendary. Then, slowly, the board of trustees took over governing responsibility. The board is made up of both musicians and community members, but were all elected by the musicians, so musicians are in absolute, total control of the organization."
"Most orchestras struggle over issues of 'them against us,' but here we're all on the same course," Mr. Long said. "We've taken away a significant source of conflict that tears many orchestras apart. We have the classic model of shareholders, in this case the musicians, electing a board. In a good year, the shareholders get a bonus, which is equivalent to a dividend. Everything is covered by a collective bargaining agreement that the orchestra negotiates with itself."
New Orleans does not have many big corporations or high-flying business executives, and the orchestra's board reflects that. In many cities, orchestra trustees represent the corporate elite, high society and families with great personal wealth. Here they include a school principal, an anatomy professor and the owner of three McDonald's restaurants.
"When the cooperative was formed, many people predicted that the business community would never support it," said Stephen W. Hales, a pediatrician who is a trustee. "We had gone through a financial debacle, and instead of coming up with a conventional solution, we produced a brand new model that people told us couldn't succeed in any way, shape or form. People said no right-thinking businessman would ever contribute to an organization run by labor."
"But the business community has actually been quite supportive," Dr. Hales said. "Convincing them didn't turn out to be the problem. In fact, they're respectful of what we're doing and the entrepreneurial way we do it. The problem is that the business community here just doesn't have the deep pockets you find in other big cities.
"In the last 30 years, New Orleans has gone from being one of the three or four most prosperous cities in the South to not even being in the top 20. The oil bust of the 1980's hit us hard, and cities like Dallas and Atlanta just zoomed right past us. We don't have any Fortune 500 companies or big corporate headquarters here. New Orleans is just limping along economically. Our orchestra has to make due with relatively modest help from a lot of pretty small businesses."
Even in this climate, however, business leaders recognize that cultural institutions bolster the local economy. Many are also impressed with the fiscal probity and strict budgetary constraints that have become the symphony's trademarks. It does not carry debt, and it has an unusually small administrative staff, just 12, less than half of what most orchestras of comparable size have.
"The business community considers this orchestra to be very fiscally responsible," said Timothy Kelly, an accountant who contributes to the orchestra and has persuaded his firm to match his personal contribution. "People here also believe that a city of this size needs a symphony. We have a lot of jazz, blues and Cajun music, but if you don't also have classical music, that's a detriment to the total package that the city can offer."
The Louisiana Philharmonic is hardly the only symphony orchestra in financial difficulty. Since the concert season began, the San Jose Symphony in California has stopped performing and has a $2.5 million deficit, the St. Louis Symphony and the Toronto Symphony announced schedule and salary cuts, and the Chicago Symphony reported its first deficit in eight years.
Specialists who follow American orchestras say that the Louisiana Philharmonic has succeeded largely because it has a core of musicians prepared to make extraordinary sacrifices.
"Its been a fabulous success from an organizational point of view," said Paul Judy, chairman of the Illinois-based Symphony Orchestra Institute, which seeks to promote symphonic music. "Orchestras that go bankrupt and then try to revive themselves with traditional structures usually don't succeed. A few, like Pittsburgh and Milwaukee, are giving a greater role to musicians. There's probably more potential for Louisiana-type situations than you might expect."
The Louisiana Philharmonic's white-bearded, 65-year-old music director, Klauspeter Seibel, is perhaps the most visible symbol of its ambition. He is also resident conductor of the Frankfurt and Dresden operas and has conducted several leading orchestras in his native Germany.
Although European orchestras give their musicians a greater role in administrative decisions than is common in the United States, Mr. Seibel said the New Orleans model went beyond what he has seen anywhere else.
"It's a very unusual arrangement, but I've come to see its great value," he said during a break in a rehearsal. "Not only do you avoid the hostility that often exists between musicians and the orchestra directors, but the musicians have a great respect for themselves and for the institution. Its something that is missing even in some of the world's greatest orchestras."
"There is a disadvantage, which is that decisions come very slowly. But a decision that develops from discussion has a weight that you don't get when someone just says yes or no. You need a positive climate to produce good music, and we have that here. There's a strong sense of belonging. Wages are low, but that's not because someone dictated it."
Mr. Seibel said he is pleased with the quality of the players he directs, many of whom are young and spend their summers playing in festivals throughout the country and abroad. Each year some are hired away by larger orchestras that can afford to pay considerably more than the $18,200 that is now the standard salary here.
The orchestra's repertory is broad, from early classic to contemporary, but Mr. Seibel said he does not go out of his way to present especially challenging works.
"We don't only play what we know people will like, but at the same time we're careful not to alienate them," he said. "The hall isn't always as full as we would like. I don't want to present programs that people can't digest."
The orchestra opened the season in September 2001 with a 10th birthday celebration. It included an outdoor party at which children and families could meet musicians and learn about their instruments and two black-tie parties organized with the new D-Day Museum here. The musical program included Copland's "Fanfare for the Common Man," Dvorak's "New World" symphony and "My Name Is Citizen Soldier," a commissioned work composed by Frank Proto with words by the poet and playwright John Chenault. The narrative is about D-Day.
Beethoven, Mozart and Tchaikovsky are on this year's calendar, but so are Glinka and Respighi.
"You could say that with the level of corporate support we have, we shouldn't have an orchestra of this size or concerts of this quality," said Barbara Mollere, the orchestra's general manager. "But we're a historic city with a very long association with quality music, and we don't want to lose that. We're passionate people down here. We want first-rate experiences. We eat good food, we know how to party and we love the fine pleasures of life. Not only that, but we want them here in New Orleans. We don't want to go somewhere else to get these experiences."

Saving the Symphony
Articles in this series are examining the ways in which symphony orchestras are coping with financial crises. Previous articles, about the St. Louis Symphony and the Brooklyn Philharmonic, can be found at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/arts

GRAPHIC: Photos: Klauspeter Seibel, the music director of the Louisiana Philharmonic, in his dressing room with his wife, Jutta, before a concert in New Orleans. (Associated Press)(pg. E8); Klauspeter Seibel leading the Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra at the Orpheum Theater in New Orleans. It started in 1992 with a 16-week season. (Michael Terranova)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); APPROVALS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); BALLET (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%) MUSIC; SURVEYS AND SERIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



488 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate; 
Hotel ChainContinues Move Into New York City

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Three months after opening its first hotel in New York City, Hampton Inns, a midprice subsidiary of the Hilton Hotels Corporation, is adding four properties in the city, three in Manhattan and one in Queens. Like the earlier Hampton, all four hotels are to be built from the ground up, rather than converted from other hotel brands or other buildings. 
 Although Hampton has 1,180 hotels in 49 states (all except Hawaii) and in a sprinkling of foreign countries, it currently has none in Manhattan. 
 Like about 95 percent of all the hotels that bear the Hampton name, the hotels in New York City will be franchises. While the company would not disclose the cost of the individual projects, it said the five New York City hotels, including the Hampton that opened in Queens near Kennedy International Airport at the beginning of the year, had a total cost of about $130 million. 
The first Hampton hotel in Manhattan is scheduled to be a 144-room property in Chelsea at 108 West 24th Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, which has a prospective opening date in October. A 65-room property at 320 Pearl Street, near the South Street Seaport, is expected to open in December. A 136-room hotel at 116 West 31st Street, near Herald Square, is to open in May 2003. The Chelsea and Herald Square buildings will be 19 stories. 
The 220-room hotel scheduled for Queens, which was designed by the architectural firm of Cherniahivsky & Associates of Philadelphia, is expected to open in 2004, at 102-10 East Ditmars Boulevard, across from La Guardia Airport. Its franchise owner, Field Hotel Associates of King of Prussia, Pa., also owns the 216-room Hampton Inn-Kennedy Airport. 
All three Hamptons scheduled for Manhattan, designed by Gene Kaufman Architect, are being built by the Hersha Group, a family business in New Cumberland, Pa. Hersha owns and operates 27 hotels, including a 79-room Holiday Inn Express in Long Island City and a 120-room Doubletree Club at Kennedy Airport.
Rooms at Hamptons typically cost $66 to $99 a night nationwide, depending on location, according to Phil Cordell, senior vice president of Memphis-based Hampton. But rates at Hampton's properties in Manhattan are likely to be at least double that. Room prices at the Hampton hotels in Chelsea, Herald Square and on Pearl Street are projected to range from $160 to $225.
There are no projections yet for the hotel near La Guardia, but rates at the Hampton Inn at Kennedy Airport are about $129 on Monday through Thursday, $109 on Sunday and $114 on Friday or Saturday.
The reasons for the higher room rates in New York are familiar: the high cost of land and construction, as well as the many regulatory hurdles. "Compared to suburban locations, the same size hotel built in New York is at least three times more," said Neil H. Shah, Hersha's director of development.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shah was quick to add, "Once you're up and running in New York, you're in the best hotel market in the world."
That market has been struggling in recent months. In its latest survey of trends in the hotel industry, PKF Consulting found that occupancy in New York City fell 5.5 percent this January, to 62.5 percent, compared with a year earlier, and the average daily room price dropped 12.1 percent, to $181.50. Those figures are a far cry from 2000, when the city's occupancy rate was 84.6 percent and the average price was $237. 
Nevertheless, with the economy beginning to inch upward, executives of Hampton, the Hersha Group and Field Hotel Associates express confidence that the cyclical hotel market will turn around before long.
"As an industry, we've gone through peaks and valleys," said Mr. Cordell of Hampton, "and I'm absolutely confident this cycle will head back up." 
Mr. Shah sounds equally optimistic partly because of the economy; because of New York's many strengths; and because "it's not like bringing just any new hotel into town -- Hampton's a 'killer brand.' " In each of the last three years the chain has won the J. D. Power & Associates award for "highest guest satisfaction among midprice hotel chains with limited food service."
Hampton, which was founded in 1982, was acquired by Hilton in 1999 when it took over the Promus Corporation. This put the chain within Hilton's centralized reservations system and meant that a person seeking lodging at another Hilton property might be referred to Hampton if the first choice is sold out. Hampton participated in Hilton's HHonors Program, which awards airline miles and hotel points, redeemable for airline tickets, cruises, entertainment and merchandise.
"Hampton has always had a loyal group of customers," said Gary Isenberg, Field's executive vice president for hotel operations. "But being under the Hilton umbrella has made Hampton even stronger."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hampton Inns plans to build four hotels in New York City, including one at 108 West 24th Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); FRANCHISEES (69%); SUBURBS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (93%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMPTON INNS; HILTON HOTELS CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%) SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS; 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%) NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



489 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
SharesEdge Higher as Fed Says Economy Is Expanding

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks rose modestly yesterday as the Federal Reserve, in a widely expected move, provided an assessment of the nation's economy that gave investors further reason to believe that a rebound is under way.
 The Fed held firm on interest rates for a second time, leaving the benchmark federal funds rate unchanged at 1.75 percent, its lowest level in four decades. But ending its stance toward lowering rates, the Fed's policy makers said the economy, "bolstered by a marked swing in inventory investment, is expanding at a significant pace." Still, the policy makers said an increase in demand remained "uncertain." 
 The stock market, which had been trading moderately higher before the Fed's announcement, gave up some of its early gains after the Fed's announcement in midafternoon.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 57.50 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,635.25. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 3.81 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,880.87. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.74 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,170.29.
"We got exactly what we were forecasting the Fed to do," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market commentator at Prudential Financial. "We're in a consolidation phase now. We have a market that's bereft of a catalyst in the near term."
Wall Street was also watching Hewlett-Packard as its shareholders cast the final votes in a proxy battle that has pitted the company's chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina, against Walter B. Hewlett, a director who is leading the opposition to the company's proposed merger with Compaq Computer. Shares of Hewlett-Packard fell 45 cents, to $18.80, after Ms. Fiorina declared victory, although an official tally in the tight vote is not expected for weeks. Compaq gained 78 cents, to $11.14.
Goldman Sachs rose $1.85, to $91.05, after posting better-than-expected earnings yesterday. The company said its earnings fell 32 percent, to $524 million, or 98 cents a share, for its fiscal first quarter ended Feb. 22. Still, Wall Street had predicted that Goldman would earn 81 to 96 cents a share, with a consensus estimate of 89 cents, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
Other financial services companies also climbed. Bear, Stearns gained $1.15, to $63.15; Lehman Brothers rose $1.68, to $66.23; Morgan Stanley Dean Witter was up $1.06, to $57.88; and Merrill Lynch added $1.48, to $55.98.
Procter & Gamble gained $2.28, to $89.94, after the company raised its third-quarter earnings forecast, saying it expected a 9 percent to 10 percent increase in sales buoyed primarily by its Clairol hair care line, its health care line and its fabric and home care business unit.
Other consumer-products companies also rose on upbeat earnings forecasts.
Dial gained 66 cents, to $17.69, after the company, which makes Dial soap and Purex laundry detergent, said it expected first-quarter earnings to exceed analysts' estimates. Analysts had predicted earnings of 17 to 20 cents for the quarter.
Colgate-Palmolive rose 45 cents, to $56.88, after it said it expected to meet analysts' estimates for its first-quarter and fiscal 2002 earnings. For the first quarter, Wall Street expects the company to earn 49 to 50 cents a share, with a consensus of 49 cents a share, according to First Call. Earnings for the entire year are forecast at $2.17 to $2.20 a share, with an average of $2.18 a share.
Among the day's notable decliners were airline stocks. Delta Air Lines fell $1.18, to $34.08, after company executives said it would most likely report a quarterly loss of $350 million to $380 million. Executives said higher security and insurance costs in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were responsible. Continental Airlines dropped $1.91, to $30.04; AMR, which owns American Airlines, lost 65 cents, to $26.45, and UAL, which owns United, declined 77 cents, to $15.90.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Gain
 (By Bloomberg News) -- The most widely traded two-year Treasury note gained yesterday as investors concluded that the Federal Reserve would wait several months before raising interest rates.
By late in the day, the two-year note, among the securities most sensitive to expected Fed changes, rose 3/32, to a price of 99. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.56 percent from 3.61 percent.
Other securities gained. The 10-year note was up 5/32, to 96 29/32. Its yield fell to 5.28 percent from 5.30 percent. And the 30-year bond rose 2/32, to 95. Its yield dropped to 5.73 percent from 5.74 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.862
High Rate: 1.780
Coupon Yield: 1.801
Low Rate: 1.720
Median Rate: 1.760
Total applied for: $34,979
Accepted: $20,669
Noncompetitive: $21,071

The four-week bills mature April 18.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields from yesterday and one month ago.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); MERGERS (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); TOILETRIES MFG (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



490 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DROPS. The dollar rose as the Federal Reserve changed its 15-month-old view that weak growth was the biggest threat to the economy. In New York, the dollar settled at 132.05 yen, up from 131.33 yen on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since October 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (73%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



491 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Statement by Fed Panel 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to leave interest rates unchanged:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 3/4 percent. 
 The information that has become available since the last meeting of the committee indicates that the economy, bolstered by a marked swing in inventory investment, is expanding at a significant pace. Nonetheless, the degree of the strengthening in final demand over coming quarters, an essential element in sustained economic expansion, is still uncertain.
In these circumstances, although the stance of monetary policy is currently accommodative, the committee believes that for the foreseeable future, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are balanced with respect to the prospects for both goals. 
The committee decided to include in its announcements following its meetings the roll call of the vote on the federal funds rate target, including the preferred policy choice of any dissenters. This action accelerates the release of this information, currently available in the minutes with a lag.
To conform to this new practice, the board of governors also decided to report in the written announcement the roll call of any vote on the discount rate, also including the preferred policy choice of any dissenters. 
Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; William J. McDonough, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jerry L. Jordan; Robert D. McTeer Jr.; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



492 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 896 words

PERSON: ALEXANDER GARVIN 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
What Does This City Need? O.K., You Asked

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
ALEXANDER GARVIN's temporary office overlooking the World Trade Center site in Lower Manhattan is all but empty of detail and clutter -- a desk, a few chairs, a panoramic view of the city. That's about it, and, given Mr. Garvin's job, it seems about right.
 Think: Blank slate. 
 Mr. Garvin, a 61-year-old adjunct professor of planning at Yale University, has been hired by the city's Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to think the big thoughts about where downtown might go from here. The wounded city is the canvas on which he will be expected to project a new plan that will partly be about physical architecture and buildings, but which will also be a kind of narrative -- the new story of New York and how it might fit back together. 
"We have a chance to start all over again," he said. "Things are possible at the moment that have not been possible in my lifetime."
Just as important as his academic credentials, Mr. Garvin said, is his origin: he is a city kid from the concrete up. He has never lived farther than a mile from where he was born on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He has made his career thinking about cities and writing about them and, for 30 years, teaching about them. He's a walking headline: Ultimate city kid gets ultimate city job.
"I'm a certified provincial," he said.
That Mr. Garvin was hired at all as the development corporation's vice president for planning, design and development is also a testament to the revolution in thinking about New York's recovery that has taken place since the early weeks after the terrorist attacks in September. Back then the trade center's lease-holder, Larry A. Silverstein, proposed simply rebuilding the towers as they had been before, or constructing a new complex that could rise quickly on the site to replace the nearly 13.5 million feet of office space that had been lost.
Hardly anyone talks that way now, and Mr. Garvin is the public face on the new, more ambitious view. He made his name in part with his 1996 book, "The American City," which lays out in 477 weighty pages his critique of how dozens of cities have succeeded, but more often failed, to plan their futures. 
A central argument of Mr. Garvin's book is that every urban planning project must start a market reaction -- a business response outside of the site itself -- or it is doomed to failure. Thinking about ground zero, by that measure, means thinking about everything from the street grid of Lower Manhattan to mass transit's connections out into the suburbs and the restaurants of Broad Street.
AND his cornerstone thought, Mr. Garvin said, is to think big. His inspiration is the early 20th century planner, Daniel Burnham, who laid out much of Chicago and lived by the dictum that small ideas always fail.
"They have no magic to stir men's blood and will not be realized," Mr. Burnham wrote.
Mr. Garvin said that the question about downtown was how big it is possible to think. And at least for now, he said, all the forces are supporting the kind of historic vision that New York has not seen since perhaps the creation of Central Park in the mid-1800's. Branches of government and agencies within government that generally don't even talk to each other, Mr. Garvin said, are aligned. People want something to be inspired by.
"How much further we can go -- that's what we're going to be trying to test," he said.
Some of Mr. Garvin's ideas are indeed hugely ambitious. He would like to see new train lines and connections that would make Lower Manhattan a single-seat train ride from Long Island and Westchester. He wants to look at the possibility of extending Fulton Street, which now ends at the boundary of the trade center property, all the way across Manhattan, making it a crosstown artery anchored by Battery Park City on one end and the South Street Seaport on the other.
And many of his ideas, he admits, are also still sketchy, or perhaps best kept close to the vest. He has been around New York politics long enough, he said, serving for years on the city's Planning Commission, and in various other urban development jobs since the early 1970's, to know that with something as politically sensitive and crucial to the city's future as rebuilding downtown, you walk gently, however blood-stirring your plan might be.
"I don't think you produce something full blown from the head of Zeus and say, 'Here,' " he said. "What we've got to do is start putting some of the pieces out, and as you put out all these pieces you arrive at a point where there's some general agreement."
But there are perhaps hints from Mr. Garvin's life about the story he will tell downtown. His parents, Jacques and Margarita Garvin, were both born in Riga, Latvia, but were apparently so in love with the idea of New York that even as they made plans in 1939 to escape from Europe, they bought advance tickets to the World's Fair being held in Queens that year. 
Mr. Garvin's father started a food business in Flushing, supplying delis with things like macaroni salad. Mr. Garvin himself is single with no children, and he grew up, he said, with the city as his playground and the subway as the means of exploring it. He fell in love with New York, he said, by seeing it as a giant living fabric of places that were surprisingly, wonderfully connected. 
"I'd take the subway to places I'd never been to, just to see what was there," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALEXANDER GARVIN (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); HIJACKING (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%) LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

JOHNSON, KIRK; GARVIN, ALEXANDER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



493 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fed Leaves Rates Steady; Hints Increases May Be Coming 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve signaled to investors, businesses and consumers today that they should prepare for higher interest rates this year if the economy continues its speedy recovery.
 At a meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, the central bank voted to hold rates steady, as it did at its meeting in January. But the Fed laid the groundwork to begin reversing some of the 11 rate cuts it carried out last year as the economy sank into recession. 
 The central bank also took a step to respond to criticism that its deliberations remain too shrouded in secrecy. It said that from now on it would immediately disclose how individual members voted on interest rate decisions. The Fed now waits to disclose the votes of individual members until after the subsequent meeting, when it releases minutes of its deliberations. 
At today's meeting, the Fed said, all 10 members of the open-market committee supported the decision to leave rates unchanged.
In a statement, the committee said it was standing down from what amounted to a heightened state of alert for further economic weakness, reflecting the view of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, that a recovery is well under way and that further rate cuts are unlikely.
The Fed said it now viewed the risks to the economy as evenly balanced between sustained weakness and growth so strong that it could ignite inflation.
In shifting to a neutral stance, the Fed did not commit itself to raising rates, and it cited continued uncertainty about whether initial signs of a robust comeback will be sustained throughout the year. But it noted evidence that the economy was bouncing back very strongly, suggesting that it would soon have to revisit what it called its "accommodative" level of interest rates.
Recent data indicate that the economy "is expanding at a significant pace," the statement said. But it added that it was "still uncertain" whether the expansion could be continued for long enough to assure that the economy does not stall.
"In these circumstances, although the stance of monetary policy is currently accommodative, the committee believes that against the backdrop of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available," the statement said, "the risks are balanced with respect to the prospects for both goals."
In shifting the focus of its policy statement away from the risks of recession, the Fed was adhering to its practice of trying to give the financial markets plenty of warning when its foresees a reversal in the direction of interest rates. 
Although it no longer adopts a formal policy "bias" toward raising or lowering rates, the Fed has taken to communicating its intentions through a "balance of risks" statement. Unless faced with a rapid change in the outlook or a financial crisis, the Fed has tended to change course gradually to avoid destabilizing the markets; in this case, the Fed has moved from a tilt toward cutting rates to a neutral stance, and many economists expect that it will use its next meeting, on May 7, to signal that it intends to start raising rates.
Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, called today's statement "a step toward a new tightening cycle," adding that the questions now are "when and how much."
Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, said the Fed was trying to walk a line between recognizing the reality of the strengthening economy without undercutting the recovery by instilling a fear of higher interest rates in the bond market.
Today's statement, he said, "can be interpreted as part of the first steps toward eventual rate hikes without any intention of becoming restrictive."
Stocks dipped in the moments after the announcement at 2:15 p.m., then recovered somewhat and ended the day generally higher. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 10,635.25, up 57.50. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.81, to 1,880.87.
Bond prices rose. In the futures markets, where investors gamble on the course of interest rates, the betting today was that the Fed could begin raising rates as soon as its next meeting, in May, and was likely to do so by its subsequent meeting, at the end of June.
The Fed's 11 rate cuts last year pushed the benchmark federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks down to 1.75 percent, a 40-year low, from 6.5 percent. Rates on many business and consumer loans fell as a result, encouraging more borrowing to support a wide range of economic activity, from auto sales and home remodeling to investments in factory equipment.
With consumer sales remaining strong and businesses beginning to restock inventories after paring back during last year's downturn, economists expect the economy to expand at an annual rate of as much as 5 percent in the first quarter.
But Fed officials, including Mr. Greenspan, have said the recovery may ultimately be more anemic than after most past recessions, in part because companies remain reluctant to invest heavily in new equipment, the type of activity that was essential to the 1990's boom.
In its assessment of the economy, the Fed stressed a "marked swing in inventory adjustment," a reference to evidence that businesses are stocking up on supplies and raw materials in anticipation of an upturn in demand for their goods.
But the Fed obliquely reiterated the concern of some of its members that inventory rebuilding would be a temporary phenomenon and that economic growth could dip later this year if other economic forces do not take up the slack. The statement said that "the degree of the strengthening in final demand over coming quarters, an essential element in sustained economic expansion, is still uncertain."
The Fed's decision to begin releasing roll call votes on interest rate changes was a surprise. Under pressure from Congress, Mr. Greenspan has gradually, but steadily, opened the Fed's deliberations and operations to greater scrutiny and communicated its decisions more rapidly.
But there are still strict limits on what the Fed makes public. Although it releases minutes of its deliberations two days after the subsequent meeting, providing an outline of the discussion, it withholds verbatim transcripts of its interest rate meetings for five years or more.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Earlier Signals"The Federal Reserve now reveals after each meeting of the open market committee its views about "the balance of risks" facing the economy. It shifted yesterday from a worry over economic weakness to a neutral stance. BALANCE OF RISKS Graph tracks Fed funds target rate for inflation (higher rates), neutral, and weakness (lower rates) from 1999 through yesterday's change to neutralstance.(Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



494 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Adviser for Italian Labor Reform Is Killed 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: ROME, March 19 

 BODY:
A top adviser to Italy's labor minister was shot dead outside his home in Bologna tonight, and the police said they believed the killing was a political assassination.
 The adviser, Marco Biagi, had been helping the center-right government draft proposed changes to Italy's labor law. The changes, which would make it easier to fire workers, have provoked strong protest on the left here. 
 An opinion piece by Mr. Biagi in favor of labor law reform appeared today in Il Sole 24 Ore, a Milan-based business newspaper. 
The last time an Italian government attempted to modify the labor law, in 1999, another labor ministry aide was murdered. In that case, Massimo D'Antona, who worked for a center-left government, was killed. The leftist guerrilla group Red Brigades later claimed responsibility, though the case has not been officially closed.
Tonight, the prosecutor general of Bologna told reporters that Mr. Biagi's killing, too, seemed tied to government efforts to change the law.
"With all the confusion and controversy that's going on, and then something as awful as this happens?" said the prosecutor, Luigi Persico. "Work it out for yourselves."
Italian unions had been planning to hold a major demonstration here in Rome on Saturday to protest the proposed changes, and a general strike had been expected in April.
Leaders of all three major unions denounced the killing and were meeting tonight on how to respond. They have already announced plans for a demonstration against terrorism in Bologna on Wednesday.
The justice ministry has recently warned that the kind of domestic terrorism that was common here in the 1970's and 1980's could return, although center-left leaders have dismissed those warnings.
Tonight, leaders of Italy's "No Global" movement released a statement accusing the state in the killing. But leaders across the political spectrum said it was that kind of accusation that is feeding current tensions.
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said: "We have to get out of the spiral of political hate and the language of civil war. We have to stop considering our political opponents as enemies."
Piero Fassino, leader of the largest party of the left, called the slaying "barbaric," and said, "We have to give the country a signal of unity against terrorism."
The Italian interior minister, Claudio Scajola, cut short a trip to the United States and announced that he would address the Italian Parliament on Wednesday about the killing.
Mr. Biagi, a 51-year-old economist and law professor at the University of Modena, was killed by two gunmen on a motorcycle as he arrived home on his bicycle at about 8:30 p.m. He had worked closely with the labor minister, Roberto Maroni, of the anti-immigrant Northern League.
Antiterrorism investigators found four spent bullet cartridges outside Mr. Biagi's home. Officials said he was hit twice and died on the way to the hospital. There was no immediate claim of responsibility.
Several days ago, the Italian news magazine Panorama ran an article on the possibility of domestic terrorism that specifically mentioned that Mr. Maroni and those around him were at risk.
Mr. Biagi, who had also worked for several center-left governments, was the author of the ministry's working document on the Italian labor market and possible reforms. His proposals to amend the current labor law had just been approved by the cabinet last week.
Currently, it is extremely difficult to fire workers in Italy, even employees in small or struggling companies. Italian law says employees who can prove they were fired without "just cause" must be rehired.
In his last editorial, published today, Mr. Biagi was critical of those who opposed his proposal. The headline on the story was, "Whoever Slows the Reforms is Against Europe."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Authorities inspected the scene yesterday where Marco Biagi, below, an economist helping to draft changes to Italy's labor law, was shot dead by two men on a motorcycle after he bicycled home from work. (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); MURDER (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: IL SOLE 24 ORE SPA (57%); IL SOLE 24 ORE SYSTEM CONCESSIONARIA DI PUBBLICITA (57%)

TICKER: S24 (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (57%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (57%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) BIAGI, MARCO; HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; MARONI, ROBERTO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (92%) ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) ITALY; BOLOGNA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



495 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Acts to Shrink Endangered Species Habitats 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 19 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, under pressure from lawsuits by real estate developers, is urging federal judges to roll back legal protections for nearly two dozen populations of endangered species around the country. 
 In an effort to resolve as many as a dozen cases against them, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service, two agencies that enforce the Endangered Species Act, are asking federal courts in California to rescind millions of acres of protected habitat for whipsnakes in the state's northern grasslands, rare birds in the scrublands to the south, fairy shrimp in shallow pools along the coast and salmon among the rivers, estuaries and shorelines of four Western states. 
 The administration is also questioning whether to preserve the "critical habitat" designations that safeguard millions of acres for about 10 other endangered species, from the Mexican spotted owl to the California red-legged frog, signaling a widespread shift in environmental policy that has consoled developers and incensed environmentalists. 
"The Bush administration is voluntarily waving the white flag," said Joel Reynolds, a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that has intervened in a Los Angeles federal court on behalf of the California gnatcatcher, a tiny brush bird. "It is a significant step in the wrong direction for wildlife protection," Mr. Reynolds said, arguing that the administration's willingness to concede in these cases could indicate it is inclined to do so in future lawsuits. 
In cases where they have relented to developers' demands, administration officials contend that they have had little choice. Last May, in a suit brought by cattlemen and farmers in New Mexico, the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit invalidated nearly 600 miles of protected streams and river beds for the willow flycatcher because the government did not fully consider how businesses and landowners would be affected, as the law requires. 
An equally limited economic analysis took place for most of the 150 habitats that have been set aside for endangered species, limiting development in the areas. Most were set aside after the Clinton administration was forced to map protected areas by federal court decisions in lawsuits brought by environmental groups. Because of that, Bush administration officials say they have little confidence of prevailing in the many lawsuits brought by developers nationwide.
"The interpretation was simple: We would lose," said Gordon Helm, a spokesman for the Fisheries Service, which announced last week that it hoped to resolve a suit with the National Association of Home Builders by withdrawing the protected habitats for 19 populations of chinook, chum, coho, sockeye and steelhead in California, Oregon, Washington and Idaho. 
While they acknowledge that carving out critical habitats ensures additional protections for rare animals, administration officials say the Endangered Species Act still offers ample ways of shielding the environment from destructive forms of development. Once an animal is listed as endangered, for example, federal officials have the power to intervene in any development that seriously threatens its well-being. 
"Vacating the critical habitats is not going to have a significant impact on the species," said Chris Tollefson, a spokesman for the Fish and Wildlife Service. "If it was, we wouldn't be proposing it." 
Whenever an animal goes on the endangered species list, the geographic area considered essential to its survival must be listed as a critical habitat, subject to a heightened degree of scrutiny that landowners have long criticized as cumbersome, if not simply unmanageable. Though new homes and even large-scale complexes can still be built in the protected areas, they must often undergo extensive reviews.
The rules have offered a lifeline for environmentalists hoping to curb infringement into pristine habitats. But developers argue that hampering construction on millions of acres of prime real estate, especially for an animal that may not even live in the area, violates the mandate of the Endangered Species Act. 
"Is the cost to society at large greater than the potential benefit to the species?" asked David Smith, general counsel of the Building Industry Association of Southern California. "That's what the government is supposed to consider." 
As they sketched out the boundaries for dozens of protected areas over the last five years, however, federal officials typically concluded that there were no significant economic consequences to doing so, prompting a wave of federal lawsuits by developers. 
"How do you set aside 500,000 acres of the most valuable land in the country and say there is no economic impact?" asked Rob Thornton, a lawyer trying to throw out the gnatcatcher habitat that spans the coast from Orange County to San Diego. Builders in Southern California found that preserving the habitat would cost the state $300 million to $5.5 billion in lost construction jobs and new housing. 
Farther north, developers amid the inland hills of Alameda County contend that the 400,000 acres of protected lands awarded to the whipsnake are so ill-conceived they blanket the entire city of Dublin, a town of 32,000 people. "How can a city of thousands be considered a critical habitat?" asked Guy Bjerke, vice president of the Home Builder's Association of Northern California. 
Though the government has offered to withdraw many of the contested habitats, at least until it can perform a more detailed economic analysis, it is up to the federal judges reviewing such cases to approve the concessions. In the gnatcatcher case, for example, a federal judge in Los Angeles has indicated his willingness to grant the government's request. If such decisions become common, environmental groups argue, a burst of new development is likely to follow, impinging upon endangered species, even if the government ultimately decides to restore the habitats once its economic review is complete. 
"The Bush administration is undoing these critical habitats without explaining what they're going to do instead to recover endangered species from the brink of extinction," said Bill Corcoran, the Sierra Club coordinator who is organizing against developers in Southern California.
But to accuse the administration of being particularly insensitive to endangered species is unfair, wildlife officials argue. After all, President Bill Clinton only began setting aside critical habitats for endangered species after environmentalists forced his administration to do so in the courts. 
What is more, Bush officials argue, with all the lawsuits over habitats, filed by developers and environmentalists alike, the Fish and Wildlife Service's ability to put new animals on the endangered species list ground to a halt last year.
"Unfortunately, we're in a situation now where the needs of the species aren't really driving the process," Mr. Tollefson said. "It's who's getting into the courtroom first."

GRAPHIC: Photo: California gnatcatchers, like this one, face loss of habitat protection. (Associated Press) Chart/Map: "Looking to Resolve Habitat Lawsuits"Under a federal plan, some territories protected as critical habitats for endangered species would be removed from the category, which limits development in the area. Map of California, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho highlighting the extent of some habitats affected by the proposal:SalmonCoastal California gnatcatcherFairy Shrimp(Source: National Marine Fisheries Service; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); BIRDS (90%); FISHERIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); ANIMALS (89%); FISHES (89%); JUDGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%) ANIMALS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; BIRDS 

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%) FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE; NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



496 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Sharply Wider In January 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened more than expected in January, the Commerce Department said today, as a growing economy led to increased imports of oil, consumer goods and machinery.
 The $28.5 billion gap came after a $24.7 billion shortfall in December, the department said. 
Analysts had forecast a $27.1 billion deficit. 
 Imports rose 3.6 percent after a resurgence of consumer spending in the final quarter of 2001 had depleted inventories. That was the second gain for imports since the recession began a year ago.
"As the U.S. economy rebounds more vigorously than foreign economies in the months ahead, the trade balance may continue to deteriorate rapidly," said Jade Zelnik, chief economist at Greenwich Capital Markets in Greenwich, Conn.
Imports of semiconductors and machinery also rose amid the biggest increases in United States industrial production since mid-2000. 
January imports, at $106.5 billion, were at the third-lowest level of the recession, and slack exports may limit profit growth at United States manufacturers, making them hesitant to invest further in equipment and software. Exports were unchanged at $78 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. January 2002Balance: -$28.52Imports: 106.49Exports: 77.97 Graph tracks imports and exports figures from August 2000 to January 2002.Graph tracks deficit figures, including 12-month moving average, from August 2000 to January 2002.(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



497 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 New Smallpox Therapy Seen
Researchers say they have a created a medicine that stops replication of the smallpox virus in the laboratory dish and that prevents symptoms in mice infected with a cousin of the deadly plague. PAGE A15

Limiting Critical Habitats
Pressed by developers' lawsuits, two federal agencies are asking courts to limit protections for nearly two dozen endangered species. PAGE A18

Cuba Expert Admits Spying
The Pentagon's top expert on Cuba pleaded guilty to espionage, admitting that she spied for the Cuban government for 16 years because she opposed United States policy toward Havana. PAGE A20

Fed Holds Firm on Rates
The Federal Reserve left interest rates steady but signaled to investors, businesses and consumers that they should prepare for higher interest rates this year if the economy continues its speedy recovery. PAGE C1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALLPOX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RODENTS (90%); VIRUSES (88%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (87%); ESPIONAGE (86%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (85%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); LITIGATION (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



498 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon's Top Cuba Expert Pleads Guilty to Espionage 

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
Ana B. Montes, an intelligence analyst who was the Pentagon's top expert on Cuba, pleaded guilty to an espionage charge today, admitting that she spied for the Cuban government for 16 years because she opposed United States policy toward Havana.
 Ms. Montes, 45, acknowledged in Federal District Court here that she had revealed the identities of four American undercover intelligence officers and provided the Cuban authorities with reams of other secret and top-secret military and intelligence information. 
 She was not paid for her efforts, lawyers in the case said, and was just reimbursed for some travel expenses. 
"Ms. Montes engaged in the activity that resulted in this charge because of her moral belief that United States policy does not afford Cubans respect, tolerance and understanding," her lead lawyer, Plato Cacheris, said in a statement. "Ms. Montes was motivated by her desire to help the Cuban people and did not receive any financial benefits."
Under her plea bargain, Ms. Montes will be sentenced to 25 years' imprisonment and 5 years' probation on a single count of conspiracy to commit espionage. She is obliged to submit to extensive debriefings and lie-detector tests by American intelligence and law-enforcement officials who will try to assess the damage she caused to national security.
The death penalty, although contemplated under the law, was never seriously threatened by the prosecutors, lawyers said.
Ms. Montes's plea confirms the most serious penetration of the United States intelligence community ever by President Fidel Castro's Communist government. It was met by silence from Cuban diplomats here.
"There is no comment," a spokesman for the Cuban diplomatic mission, Luis M. Fernandez, said.
The plea was announced a day after an appeal by Havana for greater cooperation with Washington. In a flurry of official statements on Monday, the Cuban authorities said they hoped to reach new accords with Washington on migration, drug control and fighting terrorism.
A spokesman for the State Department, Richard A. Boucher, acknowledged today that Cuba had taken steps to cooperate with the United States on law-enforcement matters in recent years. But Mr. Boucher said that any more formal accords would not be possible until Cuba demonstrated "a willingness to work across the board with us on law-enforcement issues."
Such a commitment, he said, was "completely absent."
Ms. Montes's case was resolved two months after the last of 10 Cuban intelligence officers and agents were sentenced on espionage charges in federal court in Miami.
Law-enforcement officials declined to say whether the case of the Miami spies, known as the Wasp network, was linked to Ms. Montes's. The officials said no harm befell the American intelligence officers whose identities Ms. Montes had betrayed.
The assistant F.B.I. director in charge of the Washington field office, Van A. Harp, described the episode as "a classic espionage case" unraveled by careful counterintelligence work. Starting in December 2000, officials said, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents investigating Ms. Montes placed her under surveillance as she shuttled in a Toyota sedan between her house near the Washington zoo and her office at the Defense Intelligence Agency analysis center at Bolling Air Force Base.
Officials said the agents surreptitiously copied the hard drive of a refurbished laptop computer that Ms. Montes used to encrypt and decrypt the messages that she exchanged with Cuban intelligence officers and recovered messages that documented those contacts.
In other searches of her apartment, the agents found a portable shortwave radio that Ms. Montes used to listen to coded messages from the Cubans and numeric codes that could be used to send messages like "danger" to a pager number used by intelligence officers assigned to the Cuban mission to the United Nations. The codes were written on water-soluble paper that could be quickly destroyed if necessary.
Still, Ms. Montes's story is in many ways a new chapter in the annals of American espionage. Born on a United States military base in Germany to Puerto Rican parents, Ms. Montes was raised in suburbs of Topeka, Kan., and Baltimore before attending the University of Virginia. She received a master's in international relations from the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies in Washington in 1988 and worked briefly for the Justice Department before joining the D.I.A., the Pentagon's intelligence arm, in September 1985.
By then, court documents show, she was already working for the Cuban Directorate of Intelligence, but officials would not say how or when she was recruited.
Friends and former colleagues of Ms. Montes said she was extremely discreet about her political beliefs, which many people had guessed were moderately conservative. At the Defense Intelligence Agency, she worked first on Nicaraguan issues in the Reagan administration campaign to oust the Sandinista government and moved to Cuban affairs after the conflicts in Central America ended.
She was widely viewed by intelligence officers and policy makers as a first-rate analyst. She was selected for the Exceptional Analyst Program in 1992 and later traveled to Cuba to study how the military adapted to the economic collapse after Soviet-era subsidies had ended.
In 1998, officials said, Ms. Montes wrote the first draft of a widely noted Defense Department report that held that Cuba no longer posed a significant military threat to the United States. But the final report, which provoked outrage from Cuban-American legislators, was a consensus product of Cuba analysts from across the American intelligence community. 
In her striped prison jumpsuit, Ms. Montes looked pale and thin from months of solitary confinement. Asked by Judge Ricardo M. Urbina about the accusations against her, she replied firmly, "Those statements are true and correct."
Under her plea, she forfeits government contributions to her pension, but with time discounted for good behavior, she could be released after a little more than 20 years. She is to be sentenced on Sept. 24. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (95%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); PROBATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SENTENCING (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); PAROLE (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (66%) ESPIONAGE; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PROBATION AND PAROLE 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%) GOLDEN, TIM; MONTES, ANA BELEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES; CUBA

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



499 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Erasing Graffiti, Writing Software; 
Urban Grit Gives Way to Commerce in Prospect Heights

BYLINE:  By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
From where she sits, Mako Williams cannot help but wonder sometimes whether she is crazy.
 Mako (she uses only her first name, pronounced mah-KOO) is an artist-turned-small-business-owner on a gritty stretch of Washington Avenue in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. The avenue is home to tiny storefronts that over the years have been visited more often by hard luck than by economic prosperity. 
 Some days, the lines at her cafe, Sweets Village, are out the door, thick with connoisseurs of natural juice drinks and healthful sandwiches. But on other days, people simply pass by, making Mako ask herself why she opened her cozy cafe here last April. 
"It hasn't been an easy road," she said recently, holding her 5-month-old daughter in one arm and whipping up a coconut fruit drink with her free hand. "But it's even harder to give up when you look around and see the things that are starting to happen. You may not see it completely, but there is something going on on Washington Avenue."
Many people are having visions lately about the avenue. 
On street corners where drug dealers once operated in broad daylight and gunfire was often heard, there are trees and sidewalk planters, as well as businesses like a yoga studio and a software company. These are all signs of a renewed sense of pride along Washington Avenue and the resurgence of the Washington Avenue Merchants Association, a group that in the past struggled as much to get businesspeople to care about the neighborhood as it did luring new businesses to the area. 
Like most neighborhoods in New York City, Prospect Heights has experienced a significant drop in crime in the last nine years; the police say shootings that resulted in injuries in the 77th Precinct, which includes Prospect Heights, are down 78 percent.
A largely black and Latino neighborhood, Prospect Heights now attracts middle-class refugees of all races from higher-rent neighborhoods across the city, from the Upper West Side of Manhattan to nearby Park Slope, according to 1997 census data. A developer has turned an abandoned printing plant on Dean Street, near Flatbush Avenue, into condominiums.
"Ten, 12 years ago, you didn't see people out on Washington that much, not unless they were buying drugs or looking to stick someone up," said Leroy Gaines, executive director of the merchants' association. The group, which provides grants to business owners to buy new awnings, has also been recruiting neighborhood children to paint murals to cover graffiti, and has recently begun street cleanup campaigns. The association has 25 members, up from 10 last summer. 
Yet some longtime merchants fear that all the talk of change may be just that. Not even Mr. Gaines, perhaps the avenue's biggest cheerleader, is ready to declare a full-blown renaissance on Washington. He worries that the avenue is still not economically diverse and is dominated by hair and nail salons and bodegas, nearly one in each block, and tiny take-out stores serving ethnic fast food. 
But he also says that the businesses that have made their way into the area were proof themselves of a new momentum. Along with the yoga studio and the software development company, a cafe, a bar, an investment company and several law offices have all opened in the last five years. 
"Look at where we were," Mr. Gaines said recently, holding up pictures of a collection of storefronts just across the street from his office. In the pictures, taken five years ago, every store is abandoned, covered in graffiti. Today, they have all been renovated and all but one have been leased. 
"Back then, it would have been a real stretch to imagine a juice bar, or a yoga center or a bar with a little SoHo flavor here," he said, referring to three of the neighborhood's newcomers, Sweets Village, the Shambhala yoga and dance center and the Buttafly Lounge. "But we have those things now, because people are finally realizing how undervalued this area is. You can live and open a business here without going broke. And you can be in Manhattan in 10 minutes."
Frustrated by the soaring rents of the Upper West Side, Cathy Calderon and her family moved into an apartment on Eastern Parkway four years ago. And last September, Ms. Calderon, 47, opened Shambhala at the corner of Washington and St. Marks Avenues.
"This area, it's an undiscovered jewel," she said. "All of a sudden, I can afford to live and eat in my own neighborhood." 
Like a lot of the other newer merchants, Ms. Calderon will not say what she pays in rent. But, she says, she can afford to offer classes priced low enough so that people in the neighborhood who might never have thought of yoga might try it. 
Indeed, yoga has been catching on on the avenue, and Ms. Calderon says Shambhala has attracted cost-conscious yoga enthusiasts from Park Slope, Fort Greene and Lower Manhattan. It has also drawn people to two pay-what-you-can community classes on Saturdays.
And to spread the word, Ms. Calderon has banded together with Mako and several other merchants. They swap business fliers and share them with their customers. Ms. Calderon has even offered an evening class or two, partly to support Mako, who has expanded her hours and added a jazz series on Thursday nights to make her cafe an after-work destination.
"It feels like what a lot of New York neighborhoods used to be, little villages where merchants could get to know their customers, the kids of their customers and each other," Ms. Calderon said. 
Mako sees it as a matter of survival. "This is exactly how Fort Greene took off, a cafe here and a couple trendy stores," she said. "But the only way that's going to happen here is if the merchants can catch up with the rest of the neighborhood and start serving the people who are coming here. It's all up to us."
However, not all local business owners are as bullish as Mako and Ms. Calderon. 
It has been five years since Phillip Ashby moved his software company, New York City Webs, from his apartment in Prospect Heights to a storefront on Washington Avenue. He acknowledges that there have been changes, many of them beyond his imagination. But still not of the kind, he added, that make an area a destination.
"You don't see any major chains popping up," said Mr. Ashby, 33. "Where is the Rite Aid, the Starbucks? Without at least one major retail chain, I'm nervous that new businesses that have come will never get the traffic they need to stay open. Why should anyone turn onto Washington Avenue, when they could go right into Park Slope and avoid the aggravation of not finding what they want?"
Mr. Gaines concedes that Washington Avenue remains a hard sell for larger retailers, but not because of the neighborhood's reputation. The storefronts, he said, even the remaining vacant lots north of St. Marks Avenue, are too small, 400 to 800 square feet. A Rite Aid wants at least 10,000 square feet plus parking, he added.
But Mr. Gaines said it was just a matter of time before a national chain store discovered the good things happening on Washington Avenue. It is that kind of talk that Gus Vlahavas, who owns Tom's Restaurant, a mainstay on Washington Avenue for six decades, said he had heard before. "We never had a big-name anything on Washington," he said. "They've never had a reason to be here."
Mr. Vlahavas wonders whether Washington Avenue ever will ever turn around. 
"Its nice that young people are moving here, and they're cleaning the place up, getting rid of the graffiti," he said. "But look how long that took. This isn't a renaissance kind of place."
After a pause, however, he added, "But maybe it's finally Washington Avenue's time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leroy Gaines, executive director of the merchants' association, sees gains, but worried that Washington Avenue was dominated by hair and nail salons, bodegas and tiny takeout stores serving ethnic fast food. (Edwine Seymour for The New York Times)(pg. B6); The Sweets Village Cafe has had lines of patrons out the door on some days and people passing it by on others since opening on Washington Avenue last April. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of Brooklyn highlights surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (86%); GRAFFITI (86%); PAINTING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); YOGA (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); CRIME RATES (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); CENSUS (50%); REFUGEES (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; PROSPECT HEIGHTS (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



500 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Aid Urged for Small Businesses 

BYLINE:  By Susan Saulny (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Grants up to $50,000 and monthly rent subsidies of up to $5,000 for small businesses hurt by the Sept. 11 terror attack were proposed yesterday to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. 
The roughly $200 million required for the initiative would come from federal Community Development Block Grants. Councilman Alan J. Gerson, above, one of the plan's supporters, said that too much aid had gone to businesses with revenues of more than $1 million. Susan Saulny (NYT)

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Pictures with the Metro Briefing column yesterday were reversed. Alan J. Gerson, a New York City councilman, should have been shown with the report about a council proposal he supports to aid downtown businesses. Richard L. Judd, the president of Central Connecticut State University, should have appeared with the report about a reprimand he received from the university's trustees for having impersonated a police officer.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HIJACKING (87%); GRANTS & GIFTS (86%); TRENDS (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: SAULNY, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



501 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Sweden:Interest Rate Raised 

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Sweden's central bank raised its benchmark repurchase rate a quarter of a point, to 4 percent, the first increase since July and the first time a Western central bank has raised rates this year. Economists said they expected policy makers in the United States, Britain and the dozen countries sharing the euro to raise rates this year, as the world economies recover from the recent economic slump. Suzanne Kapner (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) SWEDEN

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



502 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
HEWLETT-PACKARD CLAIMS A VICTORY

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR and CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Hewlett-Packard declared victory yesterday in its bitterly fought contest to win shareholders' support for its planned purchase of Compaq Computer, the largest merger ever in the computer industry.
 Yet the struggle over Hewlett-Packard's future ended as it began, in disagreement and challenge. And while the vote wound up yesterday at a spirited, and sometimes rowdy, shareholder meeting in Silicon Valley, the matter has not been conclusively settled. 
 Walter B. Hewlett, an heir who led the opposition to the Compaq merger, said that the shareholder vote was too close to call and that he was "optimistic about the final result." 
The official tally of shareholder votes will be done by a specialist firm of corporate election inspectors, IVS Associates of Newark, Del. That firm did not say when it would announce a result, but the process will take weeks, according to Michael Barbera, a vice president of IVS.
But Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, declared a tentative triumph after the shareholders' meeting. Ms. Fiorina, who has championed the Compaq merger as necessary to give the company the breadth to compete in the Internet era, said, "We are gratified that H.P. shareowners recognize the compelling strategic and economic benefits of the merger."
The company noted that its announcement was based on a preliminary estimate of votes by the firm advising it in the proxy campaign, but it acknowledged that those results were "not an official vote."
If the vote for the merger is upheld, it will be a triumph for Ms. Fiorina, 47. She was recruited from Lucent Technologies in 1999 to reinvigorate Hewlett-Packard, a founding force in Silicon Valley, but one that has become sluggish.
The Compaq merger has been a big part of her answer, and that of the Hewlett-Packard board, to the question of what the company's future should be. But it has proved to be a controversial, even divisive, step, as shown by the proxy contest and scenes at the meeting yesterday.
Outside the Flint Center in Cupertino, Calif., where the meeting was held, there was a carnival atmosphere. People clad in green costumes, the color of the "vote no" proxy cards, banged drums as disgruntled shareholders -- and even some union representatives from France, where Hewlett-Packard and Compaq have operations -- carried signs and placards. Among the pithy slogans of discontent were "Carly's Dream Is a Nightmare for Workers" and "Merger Today . . . Chapter 11 Tomorrow."
Inside, Mr. Hewlett got a standing ovation when he rose to speak briefly from the floor of the arena and thanked shareholders for their support. When Ms. Fiorina spoke from the dais, there was polite applause mixed with scattered boos.
Still, if Ms. Fiorina has prevailed, it will be a testimony to her ability to lobby large institutional shareholders. The contest has also shown her resilience in pressing ahead to win approval for the deal despite considerable criticism, much of it personal.
"She has handled herself well under incredible pressure," said Steven M. Milunovich, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "She's earning her stripes as a chief executive."
Ms. Fiorina and her team found themselves scrambling to save their merger plan almost from the time it was announced in early September. Wall Street was skeptical initially, selling off Hewlett-Packard shares and sending the price down sharply. But the real blows came in November and December, when first Mr. Hewlett and then the Packard family and its large foundation announced that they would vote their shares against the Compaq merger. Suddenly, a block of 18 percent of the shares was against the deal.
"People had given us up for dead," said Alan Miller, co-chairman of Innisfree M&A, a proxy solicitor working for Hewlett-Packard.
With its dueling press releases, frequent mailings, attack ads in newspapers and telephone canvassing to get out the vote, the Hewlett-Packard proxy contest has often been compared to a political campaign. The contest has resembled the politics of the era before television, when the secret to success was winning over small numbers of influential people who could deliver large numbers of votes.
The institutional investors, who hold 57 percent of Hewlett-Packard's shares, are the equivalent of those critical political delegates.
To sell the deal, Ms. Fiorina and her team took to the road, trying to persuade large shareholders to vote for the deal. Ms. Fiorina alone logged 99,000 air miles, visiting institutional shareholders face to face, often in meetings lasting an hour or more.
Her message, put simply, has been that the computer industry is maturing and thus will inevitably consolidate into fewer large companies, just as other industries, like automobiles and chemicals, have in the past. In this environment, she has argued, Hewlett-Packard's best future will be to combine with Compaq to create a company that will be able to help corporate customers cope with the complexity of Internet-era computing by offering packages of hardware, software and services. In doing that, Hewlett-Packard would be emulating the I.B.M. business model.
Among individual investors, Mr. Hewlett's side apparently did comparatively well, getting half the votes and perhaps more, according to his proxy adviser. So if the company has been able to overcome that strength and the 18 percent held by the founders' heirs opposing the deal, Ms. Fiorina must have done quite well with institutional investors. Indeed, Ms. Fiorina pointedly noted that the company had collected a "decisive majority of shares" outside the Hewlett and Packard families and their foundations.
Mergers are typically approved overwhelmingly by shareholders. Mr. Hewlett, 57, was responsible for a most unusual display of corporate democracy because a friendly merger was decided by a razor-thin margin in the shareholder vote.
In a news conference yesterday, Mr. Hewlett -- an academic, musician and philanthropist who has been a Hewlett-Packard director for the last 15 years -- observed that in heading the proxy campaign, he had felt as if he had "stepped into an alternative universe."
But he added that he firmly believed that fighting the Compaq merger was "definitely a cause that needed to be taken up."
Mr. Hewlett said he had no intention of giving up his seat on the Hewlett-Packard board.
"I fully expect to be active in H.P.," Mr. Hewlett said. "I think I can add value to the company." 
Mr. Hewlett's argument against the merger has been that by purchasing Compaq, Hewlett-Packard would greatly increase its dependence on the brutally competitive personal computer business, with its scant profits. In the bargain, Mr. Hewlett has said, the role of the company's lucrative printer business would be diminished. Besides, he has argued, big mergers in the fast-moving computer business rarely, if ever, succeed.
Win or lose, some analysts said, Mr. Hewlett has provided a rare, inspiring example of a director's taking a principled stand to oppose the course set by the management. 
"He showed that being a dissident and standing up for what he thought was in the best interests of the shareholders had enormous appeal to the shareholders," said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. "In that respect, he won."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hewlett-Packard shareholders entered the meeting in Silicon Valley yesterday. The vote on the Compaq merger will not be known for some time. (Associated Press); Carlton S. Fiorina, Hewlett-Packard chief who had championed the Compaq merger, left. Walter B. Hewlett, an heir who led the opposition to the merger, right. (Agence France-Presse, left; Associated Press, right)(pg. C4) Chart: "Performance Since the Proposal"Daily stock close for Hewlett-Packard and Compaq Computer since the merger was proposed. Sept. 4 Proposed merger is announcedMarch 19 Deadline for stockholders to send in votes Graph tracks the daily closing price of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq shares since July.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: FIORINA, CARLETON S; HEWLETT, WALTER B; LOHR, STEVE; GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



503 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: In an Aircraft Safety Effort, New Technology Tests Its Wings 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, March 19 

 BODY:
A mile above the clouds, Michael Carriker, who is what Boeing used to call a test pilot, drew a bead on the rocky summit of Mount Rainier and then began easing his new 737 down to 12,500 feet, almost 2,000 feet below the peak. "Ought to be some nice skiing up there today," he mused aloud.
 But Captain Carriker's attention was not really on Rainier, 60 miles away. He was instead focused on a screen in his cockpit that showed the plane and the mountain range from the side, as if he were watching himself from a vantage point 10 miles to the south. An airplane symbol was pointed at a profile of the mountains ahead, and one of the peaks, clearly rising above the airplane's path, was turning red. 
 In the computer-generated image, a line was projecting from the plane's nose, pointing out the path it would take if its nose-down pitch did not change. That line showed it intersecting with the ground somewhere short of Rainier, on a mountain that was nameless on the screen. 
Through the cockpit windshield, the situation was less clear. But the computer display was unmistakable. "An awake pilot would find it awfully hard to hit that mountain," the captain said as he swung the plane away.
The technology that provided that side view is one of several new electronic products being tested on the plane. The products -- in various stages of research, development, government approval and commercial deployment -- are an effort by the Boeing Company and its suppliers that is mostly meant to squeeze out the remaining bits of uncertainty in the cockpit, bringing the precision of computer navigation and data presentation to an industry that already has highly reliable engines and aircraft structures. The computers could contribute significantly, aviation experts say, to meeting the government's goal of cutting accidents by 80 percent.
One product, which technicians call the flying Nintendo, provides a computer-generated flight path that puts up a series of boxes for the plane to pass through -- like hoops for a tiger at the circus -- so it will stay on track to the runway. 
Another, for post-landing use, puts up virtual traffic cones on an outline of the runways and taxiways, to show a pilot which way to steer on the ground; another uses an infrared camera to peer through the drizzle and fog of a typical day here, to spot a truck that is blocking the plane's route over a taxiway. Yet another displays an airport map with a green dotted line showing the plane's intended route over runways and taxiways to its gate.
"We can land the plane in zero visibility today, and then how do you get to the gate?" said Gregory L. Bowlin, senior vice president of Jeppesen Sanderson, a Boeing subsidiary that prints airport maps for fields around the world.
The company has now turned that information into a computer database that is used with the virtual-traffic-cone program, called a Surface Guidance System. The plane locates itself using a Global Positioning System receiver, and the system turns the plane into a "you are here" dot on a computer-generated map, using Jeppesen's data.
The sideways profile of the mountains, called vertical situation display, uses a similar concept, with the aircraft's location found by the Global Positioning System and applied to a database of the earth's surface.
The new Boeing 737-900 in which the technologies are being tested has most of its interior filled with computers and screens. The plane will eventually be fitted with a standard interior and delivered to Alaska Airlines, which is based here but serves a rugged territory that causes it to be a leader in adopting advanced navigation techniques.
Captain Carriker, an engineering project pilot for Boeing who shuns the test pilot's silk scarf in favor of a necktie in subdued paisley, is not demonstrating derring-do. In fact, it is just the opposite: the goal is ultimate safety, not reckless abandon. 
The traffic cone system, for example, would avoid accidents like the Singapore Airlines crash 16 months ago in Taipei, where a pilot hampered by poor visibility chose the wrong runway and made his nighttime takeoff roll into a concrete barrier and a construction crane. The virtual traffic cones are part of a system being developed by Jeppesen Sanderson, Rockwell Collins and Smiths Aerospace.
A second system that could have prevented that accident, which killed 83 people, is "synthetic vision," by Rockwell Collins: the computer paints an animated picture of the plane's surroundings and, using the Global Positioning System, moves the airplane through them. 
Synthetic vision does not show objects that are not in the database, like a fuel truck. For that there is infrared, which CMC Electronics and Max-Viz Inc. are working on. The companies share the development costs with Boeing.
Synthetic vision and vertical situation display would protect against the world's most common kind of aviation accident, in which a properly functioning plane flies into a mountain. Boeing wrote the vertical situation software, and many planes already have the hardware to run it.
Some of these technologies may never be commercially deployed. Some will not work without improvements in ground-based equipment by the Federal Aviation Administration. And in the short term, at least, most of Boeing's customers, already losing money, may not be in a position to spend for new technology.
But the F.A.A. forecasts that commercial aviation traffic, reduced sharply as a result of recession and terrorism, will be rebounding, and some of the new products are tailor made for the crowded skies and runways that prevailed a year ago. Using such technologies to cut a few seconds off each landing would permit more traffic without new runways. 
"We allow for a ton of error," said Kenneth S. Hiebert, a Boeing salesman. "If we close that up a little bit, we can put more airplanes on the pavement." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORTS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); SKIING (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TESTS AND TESTING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); 7974 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



504 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Seeing Bush's Brains Despite Mangled Words

BYLINE:  By ROBERT DALLEK; Robert Dallek, a professor of history at Boston University, is completing a biography of John F. Kennedy.

 BODY:
AMBLING INTO HISTORY
The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush
By Frank Bruni
278 pages. HarperCollins. $23.95.
 "When I was a boy," Clarence Darrow said, "I was told that anybody can become president. I'm beginning to believe it." Frank Bruni's "Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush" will make believers of us all. But Mr. Bruni, who covered Mr. Bush's presidential campaign for The New York Times, will also strengthen our faith in a president's capacity to rise above personal limitations in times of crisis. 
 Mr. Bruni has written a judicious portrait of our 43rd president. Anyone interested in the man -- his personality, family ties, work habits and maturation as a politician and public figure -- will learn much from Mr. Bruni's book. His astute analysis of Mr. Bush as a peculiarly American character -- part privileged son of a famous Connecticut family, part self-consciously egalitarian Texan -- will become a starting point for future biographers.
The book, however, will not satisfy anyone interested in an assessment of Mr. Bush's economic, social and foreign policies. No one can dispute the importance of presidential personality; the presidencies of the two Roosevelts, Truman, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Reagan were shaped as much by their larger-than-life personas as by their times. But George W.? Judgments on his presidency seem more likely to rest on administration actions and reactions than on the man's personal defects and attributes. Obviously, no one can yet authoritatively measure the Bush policies, including the war against terrorism, but readers would have welcomed Mr. Bruni's considered opinions -- however tentative -- on the emerging issues of Mr. Bush's presidency.
Although he likes Mr. Bush and admires his impressive response to the Sept. 11 attacks, especially his ability to reflect the country's anger at the terrorists and determination to bring them to justice, Mr. Bruni describes Mr. Bush, in current parlance, as intellectually challenged. However attentive any of us were to Mr. Bush's limitations as a speaker and thinker, Mr. Bruni's recounting of Mr. Bush's verbal flubs will leave readers amused, astonished and maybe even a little depressed that someone so inarticulate could have become the nation's chief executive.
In running for president, Mr. Bruni says, "Bush was pursuing an endeavor for which one of the most basic, useful skills was a polished, mellifluous manner of public speaking, and he did not possess it." When he spoke without notes, Mr. Bush displayed a "see-Dick-and-Jane inelegance" that was "not quite like any presidential pronouncements Americans had ever heard before."
Examples of Mr. Bush's tortured prose provide a kind of running joke throughout the book: Mr. Bush spoke of Americans trying "to put food on your family"; tariffs and barriers became "bariffs and terriers"; quotas would "vulcanize" rather than "Balkanize" society; to raise living standards, he would "make the pie higher"; doubts about current education policy made him wonder: "Is our children learning?"; and the AIDS crisis moved him to describe Africa as "a nation of incredible disease."
One Bush response to a citizen's question during the New Hampshire primary was "an oratorical journey so amorphous and interminable that it received scant attention in news reports, including my own; it was just too time-consuming, too outrageously beside the immediate point." When Mr. Bruni looked at his press colleagues to see if their astonishment matched his own, he noticed that the correspondent from The Dallas Morning News, "a strapping, chain-smoking veteran of political reporting, actually had tears of laughter streaming down his face."
"To some observers," Mr. Bruni writes, "the evidence was stark and irrefutable: Bush was a bozo. This judgment was in fact willfully selective and oblivious to a contradictory body of facts." Mr. Bruni believes that Mr. Bush has more than enough brain power to be president. His SAT scores -- an entirely respectable total of 1206 -- were better than Bill Bradley's, and his college record was at least the equal of Al Gore's and superior to John McCain's. Mr. Bush's performance in the debates refuted assertions that he was not up to being president, though Mr. Bruni believes that Mr. Gore, whom he describes as "a pumpkin-headed sigh master," won the debate for Mr. Bush.
During the campaign, when Mr. Bruni bypassed Karen Hughes, the candidate's director of communications, to ask Mr. Bush directly for an interview, he told Ms. Hughes that Mr. Bush had given him the opening and he "had to seize the window." "Seize the window?" Mr. Bush said, grinning with pleasure at Mr. Bruni's mixed metaphor. "You're talking like me!"
"This was the thing about Bush," Mr. Bruni writes, "whenever you wanted to dismiss him as slow-witted or unreasonably pleased with himself, he would do something along these lines. He would show, in an instantaneous response, a flash of cleverness and a clear self-knowledge about his own failings. And he would be likable, just as you were dwelling on aspects of him that weren't so likable at all."
Mr. Bush's attractive qualities were never on clearer display than after Sept. 11. He manifested a serenity that "wasn't that of the ignorant or aloof" but came from someone bolstered by his religious faith, a "keen sense of destiny" and a "ready acceptance of fate." "An unthreatening, easygoing man for unthreatening, easygoing times," Mr. Bush was transformed by the terrorist attacks "into one of the most interesting presidents in decades."
"He had indeed," Mr. Bruni writes, "exceeded expectations, at least as an unusually riveting character in a newly compelling drama."
Mr. Bush's Manichaean approach to the post-Sept. 11 crisis has its virtues, but whether it will hold up as a sensible way to deal with as complicated an international problem as the United States has ever faced remains to be seen. In the meantime, anyone judging Mr. Bush's presidential performance will have to tell us whether his tax cuts, missile defense, unilateralism, education reforms, energy and environmental policies, faith-based initiative, tepid support of campaign finance reform and limited commitment to stem-cell research add up to a constructive presidency. 
Mr. Bruni's reluctance to assess Mr. Bush's response to these issues will give his book a briefer shelf life than it might otherwise have had.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Bruni (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WRITERS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); TERRORISM (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) DALLEK, ROBERT; BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



505 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: GAZA; 
Israelis' Withdrawal Leaves Behind Little Hope

BYLINE:  By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: KHAN YUNIS, Gaza Strip, March 19 

 BODY:
Mohammed Zarga sat in the sun today just outside his house here, within sight of a heavily armed Israeli guard tower just down the road that protects a Jewish settlement lying behind 30-foot concrete walls.
 His left leg was in a cast, a bone shattered by an Israeli bullet a few days ago; his home was pockmarked with bullet holes. 
 Like everyone here in the Gaza Strip, Mr. Zarga had heard that the Israeli Army ended its raid into northern Gaza late this morning. And like almost everyone here, he was singularly unimpressed because, even before the tanks rolled in early this month, Israeli forces were so omnipresent that the withdrawal seemed like a token gesture at best. 
"No, no, no," Mr. Zarga said to the idea of a cease-fire, the subject of intensive talks in Jerusalem and Ramallah, site of the Palestinian headquarters. "Last night we couldn't sleep because of the shelling. The Israelis have to leave." 
All across the strip, from this refugee camp near the southern border to Gaza City in the north, Gazans say they believe that the Israelis' latest steps are a ruse. 
"In seconds, they could come back, and a lot of them are still here," said Saher, a uniformed Palestinian security officer here who would not give his last name. Gazans also do not believe that the American envoy, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, or Vice President Dick Cheney, who left Israel today after a 24-hour visit, have their interests in mind.
"All of that is a game," said a 28-year-old fighter in El Beriej refugee camp, clutching his automatic rifle and speaking in a stone-cold tone. "This is just a media withdrawal. All Cheney is doing is talking about this so the U.S. can strike against Iraq again." 
"Any cease-fire is just a waste of time," he added, declining to give a name. 
Their views hold meaning because they, at least as much as Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, hold the power to determine the future here. The first Palestinian uprising began in the Gaza Strip 15 years ago. If Mr. Arafat declares a cease-fire but the angry fighters here refuse to heed it -- as many say they will -- then the current cycle of violence will not end. 
As it is, Israel's pervasive presence breeds continuing resentment. 
On the beach in Gaza City, fishermen were launching a newly repaired boat this afternoon but complaining that they did not see the point. Israel will not allow the fishing boats to venture out more than three miles, when their preferred fishing grounds for sea bass and sardines are 21 miles out.
"The Israelis say we are under siege," said Abu Omar Salah, 67. "If we go out too far, they will take our license or take us up to Ashkelon to go before a military court."
"The fish are very scarce this close in," he complained. "I am lucky to make 10 shekels a day," about $2.25.
At Islamic University in Gaza City, which is financed by the militant group Hamas, students stopped to talk and vent their own frustrations. Ayman Abu Moustaffa, 20, an accounting student, complained about the Israeli checkpoint he has to cross driving to school from the south each day. About 10 miles south of the university, on Gaza's only north-south road, two Israeli settlements, Gush Katif and Kfar Darom, lie on either side of the road. 
When settlers decide they want to cross from one settlement to another all the Palestinian traffic is backed up in both directions for long periods -- so long that vending stands have grown up to serve the waiting drivers. 
"Sometimes they close the road so long that I can't get to school," Mr. Moustaffa said. "If the army has withdrawn, I don't feel any change here. Every time I go anywhere I see Israelis."
Several of his friends standing with him just outside the university gates nodded with agreement. 
"I hear the Israelis made a withdrawal, but on the ground you can't see it," said Saher Falfal, 18, a business student. "And once Zinni leaves, they will be back; everything will return to normal." 
His friend Morad Farir, 22, a student of Islamic law, said he would feel privileged to be asked to be a suicide bomber sent on a mission in Israel. "No one is reluctant to be a martyr," he said. "And if I did it, it wouldn't be because of economic problems or personal problems. It would be to defend our rights." 
Back in El Beriej camp, Ashraf Kutkut runs a store selling nationalist music tapes and magazines featuring gory photos of Palestinian victims of Israeli gunfire. He says he does a brisk business.
"We are in a war," he said. "I think the Israelis are liars. And if we have a cease-fire, they will break it. The only thing that will accomplish anything is this," and he pulled three 38-caliber pistol rounds from his pocket and showed them in his palm.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinian security personnel, their offices and barracks destroyed, operating from a vacant lot in Gaza City. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); REFUGEES (73%); ARMIES (72%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); BEACHES (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (68%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BRINKLEY, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%) ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



506 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Angry at Vote, Commonwealth Bars Zimbabwe 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 19 

 BODY:
Flanked by the presidents of South Africa and Nigeria, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia today announced a yearlong suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth, a group of 54 nations, mostly former British colonies. The unusual step was meant to punish President Robert Mugabe for his stewardship of elections this month that were widely criticized outside Africa as rigged.
 The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate. 
 While less than an expulsion, the move still deepened the diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe, which has already been battered by political violence, hunger, economic decline and the threat of labor unrest. It means Zimbabwean officials will be barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the north-south divide.
The suspension was decided by the three men, who met as a committee charged with deciding the Commomwealth's response. The decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has left two of the men facing an acute dilemma. 
Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo -- both of whose countries have under past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth -- are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration. Mr. Howard was chairman of the three-nation committee.
The move avoids an open rift between its majority members in Africa and Asia, some of which have tended to side with Mr. Mugabe, and rich, white-ruled countries like Britain, Canada and Australia, which have criticized him. Yet it adds one more voice to those labeling Mr. Mugabe a pariah and increasing pressure on him to seek reconciliation, possibly through new elections.
The opprobrium spread further today when Switzerland became the latest country to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe, "in view of the manipulation of the presidential elections and ongoing human rights violations," the Swiss government said. 
Under other restrictions, Mr. Mugabe and Zimbabwe's most senior leaders are already barred from travel to the United States and the European Union.
"The committee has decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils of the Commonwealth for a period of one year with immediate effect," Mr. Howard said, reading the statement alone, apparently as a face-saving gesture to Mr. Mbeki, whose own election observers in Zimbabwe found the vote "legitimate."
The response to Mr. Mugabe's behavior was seen by many outsiders as a token of South Africa's and Nigeria's own commitment to democracy as a way of fostering economic renewal. At a meeting in Monterrey, Mexico, for instance, the financier George Soros said today that the Zimbabwe elections "have cast doubt on the ability of the African states to create suitable conditions for private investment."
If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe -- an act Mr. Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments -- such criticism would only have sharpened. Yet many African politicians, including Morgan Tsvangirai, the Zimbabwe opposition leader defeated in the election, had expressed doubt that the Commonwealth would take any action at all.
The suspension was accompanied by suggestions for easing Zimbabwe's drastic food shortages and economic decline. The Commonwealth also supported moves to resolve the country's violent crisis over the seizure of white farmers' land, backing Mr. Mugabe in his commitment to redistribute territory among landless black Zimbabweans. This was apparently intended to keep the door open to dialogue.
"Land is at the core of the crisis in Zimbabwe," Mr. Howard said in his statement.
According to the statement, the leaders of South Africa and Nigeria will continue to talk to Mr. Mugabe about ways to lift the suspension.
For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic legitimacy among often delinquent members. 
In the 60's, white-ruled South Africa quit the Commonwealth rather than be suspended over apartheid; Nigeria was suspended in the 1990's during military rule because of the execution of the human rights activist Ken Saro Wiwa. Fiji has been suspended twice, once for 10 years. Pakistan has been suspended since the military coup two years ago that brought Gen. Pervez Musharraf to power.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flanked by President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, left, and President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia announced the Commonwealth's suspension of Zimbabwe yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ELECTION MONITORING (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH (ORGN) 

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (90%); THABO MBEKI (90%); GEORGE SOROS (53%) MBEKI, THABO (PRES); OBASANJO, OLUSEGUN (PRES); MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); COWELL, ALAN; HOWARD, JOHN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ZIMBABWE (97%); AUSTRALIA (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (95%); NIGERIA (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ZIMBABWE; NIGERIA; SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



507 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Heart Devices Reduce Death Rate, But Cost Is Concern 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
Researchers have found that they can sharply reduce the death rate in high-risk heart attack patients with small but costly devices that are tucked under the skin of the chest and can avert potentially fatal heart rhythms.
 The devices, implantable defibrillators, sense when the heart's rhythm is going awry and administer a small electric shock to the heart to bring its fluttering rhythm back to normal, preventing sudden death. The new study found that the device was effective in patients whose hearts were so damaged from heart attacks that they could no longer pump blood effectively. 
 Implantable defibrillators are routinely used for a relatively small group of patients who, like Vice President Dick Cheney, have demonstrable heart-rhythm disturbances. The new study showed that the devices are effective in a much larger group of people who have had serious heart attacks that placed them at risk for heart-rhythm disturbances, but may not have had such problems yet. 
The device costs about $20,000, though, and the operation to insert it, another $10,000. With 400,000 new patients a year who could benefit, and an additional three million patients who have already had serious heart attacks who could be helped, some doctors wonder who is going to pay.
Dr. Douglas Zipes, president of the American College of Cardiology, said he and other physicians were bracing for a surge of calls from patients who would want the device.
"It's a difficult situation," Dr. Zipes said. "We're looking at changes that could easily rupture the health care budget."
The study, which was reported yesterday at the annual meeting of the American College of Cardiology and will be published tomorrow in The New England Journal of Medicine, found that after an average of 20 months, 19.8 percent of those patients who did not have the devices died, compared with 14.2 percent of those who had them, a 30 percent difference in the death rate.
"There's no question -- it's a big effect," said Dr. David Faxon, the president of the American Heart Association. "It's very significant. It offers hope for a large group of patients who have a very bad outlook. Before, we didn't have a good therapy for them."
For now, insurers and Medicare pay for limited use of the defibrillators in those patients who already have heart arrhythmias.
But use of the device in the wider group is under expedited review at the Food and Drug Administration, according to Dr. Arthur Moss of the University of Rochester Medical Center, who directed the study.
The study was paid for by the device's manufacturer, the Guidant Corporation. Dr. Moss said that the investigators insisted on autonomy, that they did not hold stock in the company, nor were they speakers for Guidant.
"What are we going to do when the phones start ringing off the hook?" asked Dr. Michael Lauer, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who directs clinical research in the department of cardiovascular medicine there.
Even the specialists who implant the devices, electrophysiologists, are in short supply. Dr. Zipes, an electrophysiologist, said that at least twice as many doctors like himself would be needed to handle the patient load.
It is, said medical specialists, a portent of issues to come and it raises questions about the cost of medicine for which society has, as yet, no answers.
"This is only one example of many that we will be seeing in the coming years where there are very, very effective and very, very expensive new treatments," said Dr. Alan Garber, an internist and economist at Stanford University. "Does that mean we should put the brakes on this procedure? The broader question is, Can we as a society afford to pay?"
In this case, much of the cost burden is likely to fall on Medicare, because most people with serious heart attacks are elderly. But that adds enormous costs to a publicly financed program with a fixed amount of money to spend. 
Dr. Sean Tunis, who directs the coverage and analysis group for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a federal agency that runs the programs, said that Medicare was likely to consider national coverage for the new use of implantable defibrillators. Medicare, he said, pays for technologies that are "clinically effective." 
So far, cost has not been a factor in Medicare decisions, Dr. Tunis said, though Medicare is not legally prevented from considering it. But, he noted, Medicare's budget is fixed.
"As money for some particular service is increased, it may be that it causes a reduction in payments for other services," he said. "It is not necessarily that the pie expands."
Dr. Moss said that all 1,232 patients in the study had a heart-pumping function that was less than half of normal; they were also already being treated with the only drugs known to prolong their lives, beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, also known as ace inhibitors. But neither addressed the arrhythmia problem. 
"The heart fails in one of two ways," Dr. Moss said. "There can be a disastrous electrical catastrophe, an arrhythmia leading to sudden death. Or it can dwindle away," with increasingly feeble blood-pumping efforts, causing a slow death from heart failure.
"Up until now, the only treatment was for the mechanical problem -- that's what beta blockers and ace inhibitors did," Dr. Moss said. 
Some cardiologists are asking if the price for defibrillators might fall with wider use. Dr. Zipes said that one way to lower the price might be for manufacturers to make simpler devices, "a Volkswagen rather than a Rolls-Royce," he said.
But Dr. Garber said the devices were inherently costly.
"They represent extremely sophisticated technology that has to be completely reliable," he said. "I think they will remain expensive."
Dr. Faxon said it should be possible to identify heart attack patients who fit the study criteria but who are more likely than others to be helped by the devices. That might enable doctors to restrict defibrillators to a somewhat smaller group. But that requires more research and, for now, there is no way of choosing those who should -- and those who should not -- get defibrillators.
Dr. Zipes said he planned to implant defibrillators in patients who should be helped and argue with their insurers later.
"Very honestly, if it were I or my father or a loved one, I'd want them to get it," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (93%); HEART DISEASE (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); MEDICARE (88%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); POLITICS (69%); INSURANCE (64%); US FDA REVIEW (50%) HEART; IMPLANTABLE CARDIOVERTER DEFIBRILLATORS (ICD); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; RESEARCH; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (80%); ROCHESTER MEDICAL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COLLEGE OF CARDIOLOGY (55%) GUIDANT CORP 

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (80%); ROCM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (80%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (80%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (80%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (68%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); KOLATA, GINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



508 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BORDERS; 
Bush Leans Toward New Agency To Control Who and What Enters

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
President Bush appears likely to accept a proposal from his domestic defense advisers to merge parts of the embattled Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Customs Service into a new agency that would exert firmer control over who and what enters the country, administration officials said. 
 The recommendation, which came at a meeting of the Homeland Security Council conducted this morning by Mr. Bush, signals a significant retreat for the director of homeland security, Tom Ridge. 
 Mr. Ridge had advocated a far more ambitious plan that involved creating an agency including other major government entities that defend America's borders, like the Coast Guard and parts of the Agriculture Department. But he had to back off in the face of objections from agencies that recoiled at the prospect of losing major parts of their departments and budgets. 
Mr. Bush has not made a decision, telling his advisers at the end of the meeting today, "I'll let you know." 
Even when he announces his decision, it is subject to approval by Congress, where the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, expressed considerable skepticism today.
"I'm not sure this is the answer," Mr. Daschle told reporters, repeating his demands that Mr. Ridge testify before Congress, a move the White House has resisted.
The new border control agency would fall under the control of the Justice Department, officials said, despite Mr. Ridge's concern that a more radical shift of control is required. The immigration service, which includes the Border Patrol, has long been a part of the Justice Department, which has apparently been unable to solve the mismanagement of its operations. 
An administration official said that when Mr. Ridge visited a site on the border with Mexico this month, he was surprised to discover "representatives of lots of different departments," including the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Customs Service and the Border Patrol, each working on different initiatives that were not coordinated because each answered to different bosses. 
At today's meeting, the new proposal won the blessing of Attorney General John Ashcroft, who oversees the immigration agency, and Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, whose department governs the Customs Service. The opinion of the two cabinet officials is likely to influence the president's decision.
Today the director of the immigration service, James W. Ziglar, sounded less than enthusiastic about the plan. "Assuming the president approves that, the details of how that will work out probably involve quite bit of work to be done," Mr. Ziglar said at a luncheon speech. "This is one of those things that you'd have to transition over a couple of years."
Asked later about his remarks, Mr. Ziglar said he endorsed the proposal and would support any decision Mr. Bush made. But he is hardly in a good negotiating position. He is trying to hold on to his job after an immigration agency contractor sent visa extensions last week to two of the presumed hijackers of Sept. 11, six months after they died attacking the World Trade Center. The visas were approved before the hijackings.
Mr. Ziglar told a House Judiciary Committee panel today that the immigration service was considering changes governing visitor and student visas. One change would shorten the length of a visitor's visa to 30 days from six months. Another would require foreigners to obtain student visas before they start classes. Currently, foreign students can start classes before their visas are approved, as did Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, the two terrorists whose visa receipts arrived at their flight school in Florida last week.
While the move of the Customs Service helps put what Mr. Ridge calls "a single face" at the border, it also puts the Justice Department in the business of collecting tariffs on goods imported to the United States. That is the main task of the Customs Service, which was created by the first Congress of the United States, and it essentially puts the attorney general, whose staff has little economic training, in charge of one of the more complex tasks in America's economic relations with its major trading partners.
"The idea of Customs going over to Justice will drive the Customs people insane," said a House Republican aide who has been involved in the debate on reorganizing the agencies.
More than 1.3 million people, 340,000 vehicles and 58,000 shipments, it is estimated, enter the United States every day.
Outside analysts said today they suspected that Mr. Ridge himself was less than happy with the compromise presented to the president. 
"Ridge wanted to have a much larger consolidation," said Ivo Daalder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "And he wanted an independent agency. In essence, Ridge lost, because he wanted to make sure that border issues were not subject to the control of any other cabinet agency. And the attorney general won."
Mr. Bush's imminent decision on a border agency fed an escalating debate on Capitol Hill today about Mr. Ridge's accountability to Congress. Mr. Bush has argued that Mr. Ridge, as a presidential adviser, is not required to testify before lawmakers. 
But senior Democrats and Republicans called on the White House to drop their objections. 
"It's important for Mr. Ridge to do what all of his counterparts do: come before the appropriate committees of Congress and justify the budget and justify the policy decisions that they've made," Mr. Daschle said. 
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said Mr. Ridge need not defend budgets but should testify on broader policy issues. "He's the head of a homeland security," Mr. McCain said. "All Americans are hearing from Tom Ridge. All of the Congress should, too." 
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, has met with senior White House officials to broker a compromise that would have Mr. Ridge meet privately with senators. Mr. Daschle appeared to shoot down that idea. "They've offered that Mr. Ridge come to S-407 to speak with us in secret about his budget and his responsibilities," he said, referring to a secure room high in the Capitol where war plans and other classified matters are discussed. "But there isn't anything secret involved here. This isn't a secret issue."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a Bush administration proposal to consolidate some agencies that control border activity omitted a reference to the news organization that disclosed the scheduling of a meeting on the subject. It was The Washington Post.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, right, director of the immigration service, and Rudi Dekkers, the chief executive of Huffman Aviation International. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); HIJACKING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%) TERRORISM; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%) IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; CUSTOMS SERVICE; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; COAST GUARD (US); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); RIDGE, TOM (DIR); SANGER, DAVID E; SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



509 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Union Crosses Party Lines For Pataki 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Two months after Gov. George E. Pataki engineered a deal that provided $1.8 billion in raises for health care workers, the state's largest health care union broke with the Democratic Party and announced yesterday that it would support Mr. Pataki, a Republican, over either of the two Democrats seeking to challenge him.
 Dennis Rivera, the president of 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Services Union, stood beside Mr. Pataki at a Bronx hospital yesterday to announce the unanimous decision of the labor group's executive board. The union is known for its formidable get-out-the-vote operation and a mostly minority membership that usually votes for the candidates recommended by its leadership. 
 Mr. Pataki, appearing elated at his latest successful incursion into Democratic territory, grabbed the hands of hospital workers and stiffly hoisted them in the air as television cameras recorded the moment. He even answered a question in halting Spanish as Mr. Rivera, who is Puerto Rican, smiled in approval.
Mr. Rivera and Mr. Pataki asserted that the endorsement of 1199/S.E.I.U. -- which opposed the governor fiercely when he first ran in 1994, and battled him the next year when he pushed a series of deep cuts in health care spending -- resulted from his support for a series of changes in health care policy backed by Mr. Rivera. In particular, Mr. Rivera noted Mr. Pataki's support of legislation to expand health coverage to poor New Yorkers not covered by Medicaid, especially children, and the creation of advanced training programs for health care workers.
That said, Mr. Rivera had telegraphed the political departure he was about to take nearly two months ago, when the Legislature and Mr. Pataki approved the package that granted Mr. Rivera's workers $1.8 billion for raises. And, as Mr. Rivera noted yesterday, both of Mr. Pataki's Democratic opponents -- H. Carl McCall and Andrew M. Cuomo -- criticized the Legislature for rushing the legislation through without debate, and before an overall budget had passed.
Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo both denounced the union's endorsement yesterday. "George Pataki made a back-room deal in the middle of the night for a political endorsement," Mr. Cuomo said in a written statement. And Mr. McCall's aides asserted that this was one instance in which Mr. Rivera's members would not follow him at the ballot box. 
Still, by any measure, the decision was a huge setback for Democratic hopes of preventing Mr. Pataki from winning a third term, and the significance of the endorsement was reflected by the intense reaction in Democratic circles and the elation among Mr. Pataki's advisers. Mr. Rivera's union, with its 210,000 members, is widely viewed as the most powerful labor group in the state, and, before this past January, it was almost synonymous with the Democratic Party. Mr. Rivera acted over the repeatedly voiced objections of state Democratic leaders, among them Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell, the party's state chairman, according to New York Democrats.
The depth of the relationship between 1199 and the Democratic Party was reflected by Mr. Rivera himself, as he sought to challenge the notion -- pushed by Mr. Pataki's political aides -- that the union's abandonment of the Democratic Party's gubernatorial candidates marked a dark day for the party and signaled a shift in New York politics.
"I'm a Democrat," Mr. Rivera said. "I intend to remain a Democrat. I'm very active in Democratic Party activities. On the other hand, I have to recognize that Governor Pataki has been incredibly helpful to the health care union."
The rest of his remarks were drowned out by the cheers of health care workers, who had been crowded into a small lobby at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore. 
Several Democrats argued that these events wouldn't inevitably benefit Mr. Pataki. 
For one thing, the wage-increase deal has been criticized as irresponsible in a number of quarters, including editorial boards. Democrats and other analysts said that Mr. Pataki might be hurt, particularly among upstate voters, if it comes to be seen that he used state coffers to reward a New York City-based political supporter.
"This is not a political earthquake, this is classic self-interest group politics, what Rivera is doing and what Pataki is doing as well," said Douglas Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College.
Also, Mr. McCall is seeking to become New York's first black governor, and it is far from clear that Mr. Rivera's heavily black and Puerto Rican membership would back Mr. Pataki, given the historical implications of Mr. McCall's candidacy.
Mr. Rivera -- who joined a coalition of black and Latino leaders last year who sought to help Fernando Ferrer become New York's first Puerto Rican mayor -- said he did not think race should play a role in which candidate the union decided to endorse for governor. "My role is to defend the economic well-being and interests of our members, and the health care institutions and the care of our patients," Mr. Rivera said.
Still, the alignment of 1199 with Mr. Pataki provides the governor not only with the benefit of Mr. Rivera's get-out-the-vote operation, but a potentially large union budget to pay for advertisements and mailings. Beyond that, Mr. Pataki's close identification with such a powerful symbol of Democratic politics is likely to make it easier for him to win the support of Democratic voters who might otherwise be wary of supporting a Republican.
The decision by 1199 could be particularly problematic for Mr. McCall in the September primary; many Democrats had expected the union to throw its organizational strength behind Mr. McCall had it stayed on the Democratic side of the line.
For Mr. Cuomo, the problem would appear particularly acute in the general election, should he win the primary. He faces the difficult challenge of defeating Mr. McCall without alienating his rival's black supporters, many of whom had suggested Mr. Cuomo should step aside and allow Mr. McCall a chance to become the state's first black governor.
Thus, in a Pataki-Cuomo race, the governor could benefit from black and Puerto Rican Democratic supporters of Mr. McCall staying home in a general election or, at Mr. Rivera's behest, turning out to support Mr. Pataki.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dennis Rivera, right, president of 1199/S.E.I.U., the state's largest health care union, said the group would support Gov. George E. Pataki. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (78%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); RIVERA, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



510 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats, Aiming at Debt, Offer $2.1 Trillion Budget 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
Democrats in the Senate said today that they would propose a $2.1 trillion federal budget for next year that provides all of what President Bush wants for the war on terrorism but also makes more progress than the administration's plan would in paying off the national debt.
 Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said the plan would also provide more money than Mr. Bush's proposal for domestic programs like education and Medicare while rejecting the president's call for new tax cuts over the next decade. 
 Mr. Conrad told a news conference that the Democratic plan would result in a deficit for the coming fiscal year of $90 billion, using budget assumptions from the Congressional Budget Office. Using those same assumptions, a rival proposal developed by Republicans in the House would yield a deficit next year of $80 billion, while the White House's plan would result in a deficit of $121 billion.
Mr. Conrad provided only an outline of his plan, saying the details would be released when he introduced it on Wednesday in the Budget Committee. His plan will be his party's main counterproposal to those developed by Mr. Bush and House Republicans, and it reflects a Democratic strategy of trying to shift the debate from military spending and the war on terrorism toward long-term fiscal responsibility and the future of Social Security.
Democrats said both Republican proposals would force the government to spend some Social Security revenue on other needs for at least a decade. By contrast, Democrats said, their plan would require the government to stop dipping into the Social Security surplus by 2008. 
Under their approach, Democrats said, the government would devote more of the temporary Social Security surplus toward reducing the national debt in the next 10 years, leaving the nation in better financial shape to pay retirement benefits to the baby boom generation in coming decades.
"The real test for this Congress," Mr. Conrad said, "is whether or not we're going to face up to our long term challenges and these long-term fiscal liabilities." 
But his plan would delay until next year difficult decisions on further spending cuts or tax increases that would be needed to meet his debt-reduction targets, partly in the hope that surpluses might rematerialize as the economy strengthens. 
Mr. Conrad's promises of additional debt reduction rely in part on an assumption that part of the increase in military spending sought by Mr. Bush would not be needed and that the money could instead be applied to the $3.4 trillion national debt.
Republicans said Democrats would inevitably increase spending and taxes, leaving the government worse off.
"When it comes to fiscal discipline, Democrats have no credibility," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader. 
In the House, Republican leaders plan to pass their budget this week. But they ran into a glitch today when a few Republicans threatened to hold up passage until they had received further assurances from their party's leaders that the Pentagon would receive the full $48 billion increase that Mr. Bush has sought.
Aides to Republican leaders said they were confident that the problem would be worked out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TAX RELIEF (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); MEDICARE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KENT CONRAD (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



511 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

In U.S. Shift on Arafat, Cheney Talks of a Meeting
Vice President Dick Cheney said he was prepared to meet soon with Yasir Arafat to promote a Middle East peace settlement if the Palestinian leader acted to curb militant attacks and imposed a cease-fire. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel indicated that he might end a travel ban on Mr. Arafat so that he could attend an Arab league meeting in Beirut. A1

Action Against Zimbabwe
The Commonwealth, a 54-nation body of mainly former British colonies, suspended Zimbabwe from its gatherings for one year to punish President Robert Mugabe for his stewardship of recent elections criticized outside Africa as rigged. A1

Morgan Tsvangirai, the defeated opposition leader, said he would consider talks with Mr. Mugabe that could lead to a coalition government if the authorities stopped attacking his supporters and demonizing his party. A8

Italian Labor Expert Killed
Marco Biagi, a top adviser to Italy's labor minister, was shot dead outside his home in Bologna, and the police called the killing a political assassination. Mr. Biagi had provoked strong protest on the left for helping the center-right government draft proposed changes to labor law. A8

Food Emergency in Guatemala
The World Food Program announced an emergency feeding project in rural villages battered by drought, unemployment and illness. Some 126 children have died since September. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A14-15

White House Considers New Border-Control Agency
President Bush appears likely to accept a proposal from his homeland defense advisers to merge parts of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Customs Service to form a new agency designed to exert firmer control over who and what enters the country. A1

No Sign of Bioterror Weapons
Investigators have concluded that while Al Qaeda researched chemical and biological weapons, there is no indication that it acquired or produced them, American officials said. A14

Pakistan Seizes 7 Near Battle
Pakistani troops in the mountainous border area near the recent American battle in Afghanistan have arrested seven suspected Al Qaeda fighters, Pakistani officials said. A14

U.S. Offer to Turkey
The United States has offered Turkey $228 million in aid to seal an agreement for Turkey to assume command of the international peacekeeping force in Kabul, the Afghan capital, officials said. A14

Arms Agency Chief Under Fire
The Bush administration, complaining of mismanagement, called for the resignation of Jose Bustani as director of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the international agency responsible for stopping the spread of chemical weapons. A15

Possible Smallpox Therapy
Researchers will report today that they have developed a medicine that stops replication of the smallpox virus in a laboratory and prevents symptoms in mice infected with a cousin of smallpox. A15

Defending Decision on Patrols
The Air Force secretary and the White House spokesman said plans to reduce patrols over American cities and end round-the-clock patrols over New York were justified by increased airline security measures. A15

NATIONAL A18-26

Court Appears to Lean Toward Wider Drug Testing
The Supreme Court, hearing arguments in an Oklahoma case, appeared inclined toward authorizing a substantial expansion in drug testing beyond the category of student athletes to include testing for students participating in any extracurricular activity involving interscholastic competition, including the chorus, band and Future Homemakers of America. A1

U.S. Firm on Crack Sentencing
Senior Justice Department officials said disparities between sentences for distribution of crack cocaine and for distribution of powder cocaine were far smaller than generally believed and they would oppose any changes in the law to reduce jail terms for offenses involving crack. A24

Move to Shrink Some Habitats
The Bush administration, under pressure from real estate developers, is urging federal judges to pare legal protections for nearly two dozen populations of endangered species. A18

Spying for Cuba
The Pentagon's leading expert on Cuba, Ana B. Montes, 45, pleaded guilty to espionage, admitting that she spied for Havana for 16 years because she opposed United States policy on Cuba. A20

Choosing Not to Run
Acting Governor Jane M. Swift abruptly dropped out of the Massachusetts governor's race hours before Mitt Romney, who gained popularity as president of the Salt Lake City Olympics organizing committee, announced plans to challenge her for the Republican nomination. A18

Primary Victories in Illinois
Jim Ryan, Illinois attorney general, won the Republican nomination for governor and Rahm Emanuel, a former Clinton administration official, won the Democratic nomination for a Chicago congressional seat. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Museum May Be Pressed To Merge With a Rival
Some Bloomberg administration officials said they thought the Museum of the City of New York, which had staked its future on a move to the expensively renovated Tweed Courthouse, would be better off merging with its rival, the New-York Historical Society. The mayor said on Monday that he had decided to use the courthouse for Board of Education headquarters and a school. B1

Pataki Gains Union Backing
The state's largest health care union, 1199/S.E.I.U., broke with the Democratic Party and said it would support Governor Pataki, a Republican, over either of the two Democrats seeking to challenge his re-election. In January, the governor engineered a deal that provided $1.8 billion in raises for health care workers. B1

EDUCATION B9

Mayor Backed on School Role
The City Council leadership approved a plan that would give Mayor Bloomberg conditional control over the public school system but leave the setting of educational policy in the hands of a board. B1

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Devices Cut Heart Fatalities
Researchers say they can sharply reduce the death rate in high-risk heart attack patients with implantable defibrillators, small but costly devices inserted under the skin of the chest. A1

A Chunk of Antarctica Melts
A Rhode Island-size piece of the floating ice fringe along a fast-warming region of Antarctica has disintegrated with extraordinary rapidity. A13

OBITUARIES A27

SPORTS D1-8

Puck Kills Girl at N.H.L. Game
Brittanie Cecil, 13, died in an Ohio hospital two days after an errant puck hit her at a Blue Jackets-Calgary Flames game. Officials said it was the first such N.H.L. fatality. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

S.E.C. Talks With Andersen
The Justice Department's indictment of Arthur Andersen on obstruction-of-justice charges was said to have led to a breakdown in negotiations between the firm and the S.E.C. over a demand that Andersen pay $500 million to settle claims stemming from the Enron investigation. A1

Hewlett-Packard Merger Fight
Hewlett-Packard declared victory in its bitterly fought contest to win shareholder support for buying Compaq Computer. But Walter B. Hewlett, an heir who led the opposition to the merger, said that the vote was too close to call and that he was "optimistic about the final result." A1

Fed Hints at Higher Rates
The Federal Reserve signaled that higher interest rates could be expected this year if the economy continued its speedy recovery. C1

Global Omitted a Connection
Global Crossing and the Blackstone Group, its bankruptcy adviser, did not disclose a complex communications-capacity deal reached with a Blackstone affiliate several months before Global Crossing filed for bankruptcy protection in late January, according to regulatory filings. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-12

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: A tragic crisis for the church; Angola's opportunity; lifting New York's air cover.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SMALLPOX (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); VIRUSES (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AIR FORCES (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (63%); RODENTS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); TURKEY (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ITALY (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



512 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Europe Presses U.S. on Steel Tariffs 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, March 19 

 BODY:
With the Bush administration's new tariffs on imported steel about to take effect, trade negotiators from the United States and the 15-nation European Union made their first formal effort today to negotiate a settlement addressing European complaints that the tariffs are impermissible under World Trade Organization rules.
 The Europeans reject the arguments of President Bush, who says the tariffs are needed to give the struggling American steel industry time to restructure itself to compete better against cheaper imported steel. The Americans say the tariffs are legal, and they reject European claims for compensation for expected losses from them. 
Envoys from the two sides met for two hours this morning and made no comments to reporters afterward. But the trade dispute has elicited harsh language elsewhere, particularly in Brussels, where officials have angrily accused Washington of failing to abide by the global trading rules that bind all members of the trade organization.
Last week, the European Union's senior trade negotiator in Geneva, Carlo Trojan, did not mince words in a letter to his American counterpart, Linnet Deily, saying the United States had "blatantly failed to respect" the group's rules. He called President Bush's decision to impose the tariffs "bad for the U.S. economy, bad for the international steel market and bad for the world trading system."
The European Union moved swiftly to contest the tariffs after they were announced on March 5, raising the possibility that without an agreement of some kind, retaliatory tariffs could be imposed on a host of American exports. Europe is already threatening $4 billion in retaliatory tariffs in another dispute with the United States, a disagreement over tax breaks for exporters.
Australia, Brazil, China, New Zealand, South Korea and Japan have also lodged formal complaints about the steel tariffs. American envoys met here later in the day with envoys of Brazil and New Zealand.
Trade friction between the United States and its major partners is not uncommon, but the steel measures seem to have struck an unusually raw nerve. The European Union predicts that on top of the direct loss of export business for steel makers, something that affects relatively few European countries, there will be a painful indirect effect as cheap steel diverted from America floods Europe instead.
Mrs. Deily has acknowledged that American steel makers are "not immune from the need to reform," but she wrote to Mr. Trojan that Washington had acted only after failing to persuade other nations to dismantle subsidies and close inefficient plants.
Mr. Trojan responded that no amount of protection would enable older steel mills to become internationally competitive, and he accused the United States of trying "to shift its problems to foreigners rather than accepting the responsibility of confronting tough domestic choices."
The European Union is pursuing a two-pronged strategy. It has lodged a complaint with the trade group's dispute-resolution system, whose decisions bind all member countries; today's talks were the first step in that slow process. It has also complained separately under the trade group's 1994 "safeguards" agreement, the one cited by the Bush administration as authorizing temporary protective tariffs to give an industry threatened by cheap imports time to recover. 
Safeguard complaints are more limited in scope but are usually decided faster. The union has asked for an immediate award of $2 billion, the amount it says its steel industry will lose each year because of the tariffs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This steel mill in Russia and factories around the world may be affected by President Bush's plan to impose tariffs on imported steel. Many countries, including Russia and the European Union, object to the plan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) OLSON, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (76%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



513 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: City to Cut Promised Funds For Lincoln Center Rebuilding 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
New York City's cultural affairs commissioner said yesterday that the city financing committed to Lincoln Center's $1.2 billion redevelopment project would be cut significantly over the next few years under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's preliminary budget.
 The commissioner, Kate D. Levin, appearing at a City Council hearing, said: "Lincoln Center is an example of an organization that did not have its act together to go forward with its project as planned. So we cut most of those monies." 
 Ms. Levin, who testified before the council's committee on cultural affairs, said that her department had been asked to defer or reduce its capital budget of $862 million by $263 million over the next five years. In making its recommended cuts to the mayor, Ms. Levin said, her agency had decided to give priority to those building projects that were "already under construction, projects with particularly complex or contingent timing, and projects in city-owned facilities." 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had pledged $24 million a year over the next decade to Lincoln Center's project. The first installment of that money was given to the center in December when the city approved the redevelopment's master plan.
Under Mayor Bloomberg's budget, the annual allocation would be cut by $20.6 million for fiscal year 2002, by $14 million for 2003, by $19 million for 2004 and by $19 million for 2005, with Lincoln Center receiving $72.6 million in 2006. Essentially, this represents a deferment of financing to Lincoln Center, protecting some money so that the organization can continue with design and planning.
Beverly Sills, the chairman of Lincoln Center, reached by telephone last evening, said she was unable to comment. The Lincoln Center redevelopment project has been plagued by internal politics among the organization's various arts components as well as by a tough economic climate made more difficult by the events of Sept. 11.
Among other cultural organizations whose financing would be cut under the preliminary budget are the Guggenheim Museum, which plans to build a new branch on the East River in Lower Manhattan. The Guggenheim is scheduled for cuts of $6 million a year over the next four years, with $13.2 million allocated for 2006.
Similarly, the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, which had planned to build a new "discovery center," is to have its funds cut by $10 million in fiscal year 2002 and by $12 million in each of the subsequent three years.
And the New York Aquarium's financing is to be cut by $5 million for fiscal year 2002 and another $5 million for 2003 before receiving $3,000 in 2004 toward various planned improvements.
Ms. Levin said that the $650 million renovation under way at the Museum of Modern Art had already received its $65 million commitment from the city because the project was nearing completion. Because the museum put the money to use immediately, Ms. Levin called the institution "exemplary in terms of management" and said that "they are far enough along that that money is not money we're going to touch."
Councilman Philip Reed, who represents the Bronx and parts of Upper Manhattan, suggested to Ms. Levin that smaller arts groups were at a disadvantage, since they had less to begin with. "Some organizations don't have the capacity to respond as effectively and as efficiently as MOMA does," Mr. Reed said later. "So while you're saying MOMA has locked in its $65 million, the other organizations we've starved to death -- who don't have the fund-raising capacity MOMA does -- are being penalized."
Ms. Levin restated her openness to re-evaluating the distribution of city art funds. The 34 institutions owned by the city or situated on city land that make up the Cultural Institutions Group now get 85 percent; the more than 500 smaller arts groups get 15 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%) POGREBIN, ROBIN; LEVIN, KATE D (COMR); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



514 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Con Ed Asks Permission to Hold Rebates 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Consolidated Edison has asked New York regulators to let it withhold millions of dollars in consumer rebates to pay for World Trade Center-related damages, in case promised federal aid proves to be inadequate.
 In all, Con Ed has asked the New York State Public Service Commission to withhold $36.4 million in rebates that were set to be returned to consumers as early as this year. 
 The request to set aside the $36.4 million was initially made in the weeks after the attack. Since then, Con Ed and Verizon successfully pleaded with the White House to provide federal aid to cover their costs. The request was granted two weeks ago, when President Bush announced his decision to provide New York utilities with $750 million for their restoration efforts. 
But just one day after that announcement, Con Edison asked the commission to keep its request for the additional $36.4 million active as a safeguard in case Congress did not approve the appropriation or the legislation did not cover the cost of certain service interruptions and security upgrades.
The company's initial request to hold onto the rebates angered several consumer advocates and New York lawmakers, who formed a lobbying coalition that pressured a reluctant White House to provide disaster aid to Con Ed and Verizon.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Manhattan Democrat who helped lobby the White House, said that she was troubled by Con Ed's plan. "Con Ed is flat out wrong to hold up these rebates," she said. 
Under federal law, disaster aid cannot be awarded to commercial utilities, although municipal utilities can receive such aid. To get around that law, President Bush proposed the use of community block grants to provide the aid to Con Ed and Verizon. President Bush's plan has not been introduced as legislation in the House or the Senate.
Michael Clendenin, a Con Ed spokesman, said the request to withhold the rebates was intended to ensure that the utility was reimbursed for all of the costs associated with the trade center attack.
"This is simply an option that is under consideration should the costs related to the trade center attack not be reimbursed," he said. "It is still our intention that all of the money involved is to be used for ratepayer benefit."
Aides to New York lawmakers in Washington said that part of the problem was that the the Bush administration said it would like to limit how much of the money could be used on security improvements. 
"The problem here is that we need to make sure that all the utilities are made whole from 9/11 and that they get help, that they get the mitigation costs to not only rebuild, but make sure we are prepared in case we are attacked again," Ms. Maloney said.
The White House dismissed the Con Ed filing as an attempt to put pressure on the federal government for more money.
Before President Bush's announcement, Con Ed and Verizon said they were considering passing $720 million in disaster-related costs on to consumers in the event that they did not receive aid.
Con Ed said it had $70 million in insurance for the two substations that were destroyed in the collapse of 7 World Trade Center, leaving an estimated $340 million in additional costs. Verizon has estimated that its insurance will cover $1 billion in damage, leaving $380 million in additional costs.
In an announcement made with much fanfare in Washington on aid to New York this month, President Bush said he would provide the companies $750 million, or about $30 million more than they had requested. Con Edison made its commission filing on the rebates the next day.
A spokesman for Verizon, John B. Bonomo, said his company's executives have not said what they will do if its costs end up being higher than anticipated. 
But Con Ed's filing said that while "the news reports" of President Bush's decision were "welcoming and gratifying, they provide no assurances that all of the company's W.T.C.-related costs, which are yet to be determined, will be reimbursed."
The filing also says that "even if Con Edison were fully reimbursed for its costs of repair and restoration, the company expects to incur additional substantial incremental costs for measures to increase the security of its infrastructure, as well as substantial additional interference costs related to infrastructure rebuilding by New York City and others."
The filing also referred to a separate matter, Con Ed's tentative agreement to reduce total gas rates by $25 million in its next regulatory agreement with the commission. In the filing, Con Ed said it would have a hard time agreeing to the proposed reduction unless the $36.4 million in rebates were set aside. 
The commission's staff and the State Consumer Protection Board, whose members were all appointed by the governor, have supported Con Ed's position. The commission, whose members are also appointed by the governor, has not said when it will rule on the rebates.
The $36.4 million includes $12.7 million that was supposed to be returned to consumers as a part of an earnings sharing plan; more than $6.3 million in refunds of late charges made in error; and more than $17.2 million that Con Ed owes consumers from an agreement to reduce some rates retroactively.
Gerald Norlander, executive director of the Public Utility Law Project, a consumer group in Albany, said consumers should receive the rebates immediately. Mr. Norlander said he suspected that Con Ed was trying to use the rebates to cover the losses resulting from the rate reduction.
"If the commission holds that money," he said, "my money says customers will never see that $36 million."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Con Ed crews working on a project at Murray Street, just north of the attack site, last month. President Bush has said $750 million will be set aside for utilities' restoration efforts, but Congressional approval is required. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES REBATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SALES PROMOTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); TERRORISM (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REBATES 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (58%) PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%) SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); RICK PERRY (54%) BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



515 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: White House Adds Billions To an Increase In Foreign Aid 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 19 

 BODY:
Ahead of President Bush's visit to a development meeting here, the administration substantially overhauled a proposal to increase foreign aid today, doubling what the president had promised to spend to fight world poverty in coming years.
 The revision came as many officials from both rich and poor nations, while welcoming the first commitment to increase American foreign aid in more than a decade, criticized Mr. Bush's original plan as tepid, especially in comparison with his much more robust commitment to increase military spending. 
 Officials in both Monterrey and Washington said today that the administration now planned to increase foreign aid spending by 50 percent over three years beginning in the 2004 fiscal year. The proposal would raise development assistance to $15 billion, from $10 billion by 2006, the officials said, and would not decrease it thereafter. 
When Mr. Bush announced the original plan last week, he described a $5 billion development fund that would disperse grants for antipoverty projects. Officials said then that the plan would increase foreign aid by 15 percent each year during the three-year life of the fund, and they made no commitment to keep spending more money after 2006.
While the Bush administration called the new total a clarification, it would entail a great deal more spending than the president and his top advisers first stated. If the foreign aid budget is to grow in equal yearly increments of $1.65 billion from 2004 through 2006, as officials said today was likely, the cumulative increase in spending would amount to about $10 billion over those three years, double the initial estimate.
Late today in Washington, Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, confirmed that the administration now favored a cumulative $10 billion increase over three years, bringing the foreign aid budget to $15 billion by 2006. Mr. Fleischer said the White House and the Treasury Department miscommunicated details of the package last week.
Yet last week, administration officials who briefed reporters at the White House were quite clear about the terms of the aid proposal, detailing increases of roughly 15 percent from 2004 through 2006.
Any promise to increase spending in several years is really notional -- Congress controls the purse, and there is no guarantee that Mr. Bush will control the White House throughout the period in question. But the revision illustrates how arithmetic has taken center stage in the first two days of a weeklong session in Monterrey on helping poor nations.
Development experts -- those few who knew tonight about the revised plan -- hailed it as momentous, saying it showed how quickly the United States could commit to mobilize resources to combat poverty when the White House has the political will.
"It's a huge deal," said James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank.
His reaction contrasted sharply with responses to the plan as originally detailed, which many antipoverty experts had been parsing to point out what they called shortcomings. European officials were touting their own proposed increase in foreign aid as far greater than what the Americans promised, both in total dollars and as a percentage of European economic output.
United Nations officials hailed progress in getting rich nations to focus on aid. But Mark Malloch Brown, head of the United Nations Development Program, said before the Bush administration's announcement today that, all told, the pledges were still not "on anything like the scale that we argue is necessary" to cut poverty in half by 2015, a goal set by world leaders in 2000.
George Soros, a financier and philanthropist, belittled the administration's first proposal, saying it was "nicely packaged with too little in the package." The French development minister, Charles Josselin, said the plan fell short.
Former President Jimmy Carter, also responding to the earlier plan, praised Mr. Bush for promising to reverse the decline in aid since the end of the cold war. But he also said the amount the United States spent on aid, about 0.1 percent of national output, was tiny. 
A senior administration official here said that most delegates had reacted positively to the first Bush plan and that the upward revision was not intended to defuse criticism. He said the administration wanted to clarify the terms and amounts of aid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (97%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



516 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: MIXED MEDIA; 
America's Real Foodie Bible (It's Not What You Think)

BYLINE:  By REGINA SCHRAMBLING 

 BODY:
TASTE OF HOME is a magazine that does not print certain words. Like confit. Or microgreens, or extra virgin, or fleur de sel. Or, especially, chef. 
 Its photo features on kitchen makeovers are not littered with brand names like Garland and Sub-Zero and Corian. Its travel stories wander no farther afield than rural restaurants where the potatoes are made magical through the whipping in of cheese, butter, cream and more cheese. And its party features combine themes like fish or football with homemade touches like fin-shaped place cards and pigskin birthday cakes. 
 No editor could make this stuff up. 
Maybe it's just a coincidence, but Taste of Home also claims the highest circulation of any food magazine, about 4.5 million, which is more than Bon Appetit, Food & Wine and Gourmet combined. And right now it may be the most talked-about food magazine in the country.
In the last week, the Reader's Digest Association has been reported to be in talks to take over Reiman Publications, the obscure but eminently successful company in Greendale, Wis., that publishes Taste of Home, for at least $700 million. Neither company would comment. 
But if the deal succeeds, what Reader's Digest will acquire is a fiercely loyal following for recipes and ideas from a universe far removed from the one that celebrates chefs and esoteric ingredients. And I have to count myself among those devotees.
Taste of Home has been my guilty pleasure for years, ever since my consort's mother in Buffalo sent me a gift subscription for Christmas and hooked me on its determinedly downscale approach to food. All the recipes are submitted by readers, making it a unique barometer of how America really eats. It's like a Junior League cookbook in installments every other month. 
Taste of Home is just one piece of a unique empire, based in a little town that looks right out of a David Lynch movie but is actually two Interstate exits south of Milwaukee. The magazine has its own visitors' center, complete with a store selling Reiman merchandise, and even has its name on a surprisingly stylish restaurant. I made a pilgrimage there a couple of years ago and am still thinking about it. 
Although the magazine itself has other wacky attributes, the food is the main fascination. I have never actually clipped a recipe for a main course I would serve to company, let alone my consort, but some party staples have been born from the snack columns (Taste of Home does not call such tidbits anything fancy like hors d'oeuvres, or even appetizers). A loaf of round sourdough, crosshatched and stuffed with sliced pepper Jack cheese, soaked in melted butter and baked to irresistible gooeyness, is typical of what I consider crossover cuisine, from the countryside to a Manhattan co-op. Bar cookies -- the heartland's answer to petit fours -- are also generally good bets.
In these pages, one casserole is worth six saute pans, and a can opener is a cook's right hand. Jell-O is not just accepted but venerated, and cream of mushroom soup is as essential as stock. 
But on the whole, real ingredients add up to real food. Ann Kaiser, the managing editor, who also serves as the magazine's spokeswoman, says readers are interested primarily in from-scratch cooking. (A new sister publication that relies on convenience foods, Quick Cooking, has cut into the original magazine's circulation.) 
Almost every recipe is depicted in an elaborately styled photograph, which minimizes the need for detailed directions. The magazine has a huge loft at its headquarters stocked with thousands of cake stands, casseroles, pie plates, table linens, salt and pepper shakers and other accessories to give a country look to the food photos, which are nothing like what you see in Saveur's features on home cooking. 
The writing is as much of a hoot as many of the recipes. No one ever "says" anything; it's always "relates" or "remarks" or "reveals." The "editors" are billed as "a thousand country cooks," all of whom contribute recipes, cooking tips, anecdotes and photographs in return for their names and faces in the magazine. 
In reality, a small staff translates readers' letters into deliberately folksy copy and tests every recipe (after first checking an extensive database to be sure it has not been previously printed). Taste of Home is just as calculated as any glossy urban food magazine.
It does dispense solid information, and with none of the humorless pomposity of Cook's Illustrated. Cooking With Janaan, a question-and-answer feature, reassures a reader wondering if a Bundt cake can be baked in an angel food pan with "yes, indeed" heartiness (as long as the pan is two-thirds full and a foil wrapping keeps the batter from leaking). 
Shortcuts Worth Sharing offers reader advice: "For delectable red cabbage, add a cinnamon stick, admits Catherine Stahlmann of Arlington Heights, Ill." Taking a Trip With Food showcases recipes for ingredients like black walnuts or popcorn from farmers' wives in a particular state, and those are often winners -- who better than a cook with a plethora of carrots to come up with offbeat ways to serve them? 
Taste of Home also publishes features no New York or Los Angeles magazine would dare, like Our Family's Favorite Grace. It acknowledges that America's obsession with fat and sugar is taking a toll by emphasizing recipes for diabetics, and that the economy has not exactly put a foie gras in every terrine by including a column called Feed Your Family for 99 cents a Plate. 
What it does not mention is wine. Apparently this food is meant to be eaten with drinks like the apricot cows in the current issue: apricot nectar blended with ice cream, nonfat dry milk and sugar. 
The magazine has been able to go its own way partly because it answers only to its publisher and readers, not mainstream advertisers. Roy Reiman started the business in his basement in 1970, at a time when farm magazines were cutting out their women's pages because they could not sell advertising. He dreamed up a broadsheet called Farm Wife News that was "dedicated to partners of the nation's farmers and ranchers" and intended to be "a medium for the exchange of good ideas." To subsidize it, he turned to subscriptions and built quite an empire. One that is apparently very appealing to Reader's Digest, which is suffering in the current advertising slump. 
Reiman, which publishes nine other magazines, like Birds & Blooms and Reminiscence, also runs tours and a mail-order business. While it constantly boasts about its lack of advertising, each thin issue of Taste of Home comes in a plastic bag packed with fliers for other magazines and merchandise. Its pages are just free of the Baby Gap and Acura ads that make Food & Wine so hefty. A subscription is $17.98 for six issues, 50 percent more than what Gourmet charges for 12. Newsstand copies are $3.99. Some of the content is also available free online, at www.tasteofhome.com.
Mr. Reiman sold a majority interest in his company in 1998 to Madison-Dearborn Partners but continued to oversee the business, including starting Taste of Home Restaurant. The menu purports to showcase recipes from the magazine, and readers come from hundreds of miles away to eat there. Some even drink wine from a decent list. 
The visitors' center was opened to divert obsessed readers away from the magazine's hive-like offices nearby. It houses a glassed-in demonstration kitchen staffed by women in lab coats who mechanically crank out cookies (MMMinnesota Munchers when I was there; mix for sale). A shop downstairs is heavily stocked with Reiman merchandise: cookbooks, crockpots, baggy, cutesy sweatshirts like the ones on many of the patrons and gadgets like a knife just for iceberg lettuce.
Until I made my odyssey there, I have to admit my fascination with Taste of Home was tinged by a slightly creepy feeling. As a childless urban atheist living in sin, I was suspicious of a magazine in which virtually every face was white, every woman was married, widowed or single for some other good reason, every family had Mom, Dad, kids and usually grandparents at the table and church was mentioned in every fourth paragraph. I could almost see Pat Buchanan behind the Betty Crocker mask. 
But after a couple of days in Greendale, I realized that the magazine literally reflects its readership. The visitors' center and the restaurant were both full of faces straight out of the magazine's cluttered pages. Aside from a couple of bus boys with name tags like Fidel and Fernando, everyone was white. Some were even Amish. 
Ms. Kaiser explained the magazine's appeal simply: "People who are reading it kind of feel that sitting down for a family meal or taking dinner to a potluck at church is a very significant part of their lives." 
While most magazines project fantasy, Taste of Home creates its own reality. Even if it looks a little alien from here in melting pot Manhattan.

Another No-Frills Approach
Robert Parker Jr. also takes an ad-free approach to his latest venture, a Web site with something for everyone, whether the dedicated consumer, the wine geek obsessed with comparing vintages or merely the culinary/oenophile voyeur. 
The site, eRobertParker.com, crams reams of information into an easily navigated format. The home page features include links to news stories about wine, a recommendation for the wine of the day, taken from past issues of the Wine Advocate, and a search service to track ratings of thousands of wines. 
One-week trial subscriptions, with access extremely limited, are free. Subscriptions are $29 a quarter, $99 a year.
For all the detailed information on the site, the Hedonists Gazette is the most fun. Anyone with a taste for over-the-top meals eaten vicariously will not be able to resist the extravagant descriptions of food-and-wine pairings at Daniel, Citronelle, Le Bernardin, Mr. Parker's home and other upscale dining rooms.

SAVORY PARTY BREAD
Adapted from Taste of Home
Time: 35 minutes

1 round loaf sourdough bread, about 1 pound, unsliced
1 pound Monterey Jack or pepper Jack cheese, sliced
1 stick butter, melted
1/2 cup chopped scallions
2 to 3 teaspoons poppy seeds, optional.

Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Crosshatch the bread without cutting through the bottom crust. Insert cheese between the cuts. Combine the butter, scallions and poppy seeds, and pour over the bread. Wrap in foil. Place on baking sheet, and bake for 15 minutes. Uncover, and bake 10 minutes longer, or until the cheese is melted. Serve.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE CHEESE CHRONICLES -- Recipes come from readers. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1); LOYAL FOLLOWING -- Taste of Home has a circulation of millions and no advertising pages. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); RELIGION (65%); INTERIOR DECORATING (58%) MAGAZINES; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (83%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TASTE OF HOME (MAGAZINE); READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC; REIMAN PUBLICATIONS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: SCHRAMBLING, REGINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002 



517 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Dept. of Dysfunction 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A dysfunctional English department at Columbia ("Columbia Soothes the Dogs of War in Its English Dept.," front page, March 17), like the recent flap over African-American studies at Harvard, makes for juicy reading -- the very stuff that might find its way into a mystery by Amanda Cross (a k a the ex-Columbia English professor Carolyn Heilbrun)! 
 But the real story in academic life is elsewhere -- among the thousands of unemployed and underemployed Ph.D.'s. Shame on my colleagues at Harvard and Columbia for fretting publicly over the most privileged academic posts in the nation, for failing to retire by 70 and for keeping as many as a dozen positions unoccupied.

JOHN JEFFRIES MARTIN
San Antonio, March 18, 2002

The writer is a professor of history at Trinity University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; TENURE 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: MARTIN, JOHN JEFFRIES (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



518 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Calling In the Makeover Medics 

BYLINE:  By LAURA ZIGMAN 

DATELINE: NEWTON, Mass. 

 BODY:
I SUPPOSE you could say I felt the way any troubled person would right before picking up the phone and finally calling for professional help: desperate, resigned, deeply relieved. The help I needed, though, wasn't psychiatric, physical or spiritual (at least, not technically). It was domestic, spatial, aesthetic.
 It was decorating, to be exact. 
 In December, after years of apartment living, I finally moved into a three-story Victorian with my fiance and our 18-month-old son. I had always felt, somewhat smugly, that I had an eye for home decor. But now, whatever eye I thought I had was gone. 
Overwhelmed by the choices (multiple rooms, multiple possibilities) and confounded by a difficult living room (not enough wall space, not enough seating, pocket doors, French doors, lots of toys), I sat on my poorly situated sofa (too close to the curtainless windows, too far from the coffee table) and froze. Putting our house together seemed like a problem involving space and numbers, shapes and flow and placement and cohesion, and I had never been good at physics or math.
Like most of our friends, we thought decorators were for other people. Rich people. But that didn't mean we aspired to be do-it-yourselfers. We craved transformation, reinvention, instant gratification. We needed a house makeover. More specifically, we needed the Redecorators.
Their ad in the back of a magazine promised a flat-fee one-day decorating service that would use the furnishings we already had. I couldn't pick up the phone fast enough.
Dotty Volpe and Dolly Sturman are the Redecorators, and makeovers are what they do. They are also partly handymen and partly mini-contractors. They will rearrange furniture and rehang art, and will advise on window treatments, wall colors, lighting, painters, electricians and plumbers, and bring in furniture and accessories on approval. They will even write a detailed plan for other projects to be carried out when time and money allow.
The first room costs $350; after that the fee per room is $100 to $300. Any new items that are kept are charged to the client, with a 20 percent markup.
(Lauri Ward in Manhattan, a pioneer in the field of restyling, charges $325 for a room less than 19 feet long and $200 an hour for shopping.) 
Although they are based in Boston, Ms. Volpe and Ms. Sturman will travel anywhere in New England and to New York City (at the client's expense), which might explain why there is a wait of up to eight weeks for their services.
One thing interior decorators and redecorators agree on is that business has boomed since Sept. 11. Ms. Volpe points to the slowed economy and the fact that people are staying home more. "Those who were going to do the big family room add-on or big kitchen redo are now saying: 'You know what? We should wait and do that, so let's make our homes more functional as they are.' "
The Redecorators arrived on a cold snowy January morning looking like the odd couple (Ms. Sturman, a brunette, in a long black skirt and impossibly high-heeled boots; Ms. Volpe, a blonde, in head-to-toe Gap) and sounding like the guys from "This Old House" (the thick Boston accents, the good-natured bickering and shop talk).
Fit and attractive at 50-something, they met in 1990 when Ms. Volpe, who has a background in real estate, construction and politics (she did advance work for Gov. Michael S. Dukakis and President Jimmy Carter), was "staging," or styling, houses for sale. Two years later, she and Ms. Sturman, an interior decorator, became partners.
"One reason we've been successful is that people are afraid of decorators," Ms. Volpe said. "They're afraid of being told that everything they have has to go. But we don't do that. People have things they love, and we'll find ways to use them." 
Even if it's something that's ugly?
"Well, if it's something that's really ugly," Ms. Sturman said, "we'll find a way to use it in a corner."
The first order of business was a walk-through of the entire house. This took more than an hour, which surprised me. I wondered if it was because I was trying to run interference between them and my furniture. "We've always hated the color of . . .," I explained. "We're definitely going to get rid of . . . . As soon as we can afford to, we're going to replace the . . . ." Perhaps it was because it was taking time for Ms. Volpe to measure everything -- a rug, an armoire, a chest of drawers -- with her size 11 feet. Then again, it may just have been that Ms. Sturman was having trouble getting up the stairs in her long tight skirt and high-heeled boots.
Actually, this part of the process is often lengthy, Ms. Volpe told me later. "We go everywhere, into every room, and we always find great stuff," she said. "People always tell us there's nothing in the attic and nothing in the basement, but there's always a table, or a chair, or something we can use."
Back downstairs, we devised a game plan: they would focus on the living room (not enough seating), the dining room (too much white) and the foyer (completely empty). They would find (cheap) curtains for the bank of three bay windows in the living room and get a (cheap) slipcover made for an expensive, oversize ottoman stored on the third floor. We also decided to tone down the natural-gumwood trim in the foyer and dining room by getting the walls painted.
Ms. Volpe suggested tannery, a butterscotch-gold, for the living room; safari tan, a lighter shade of gold, for the foyer; and shy cherry, a deep red, for the dining room. She also located a (cheap) team of six painters to do the job in one day, promising that she and Ms. Sturman would return after that "and do our thing."
Restyling has its critics, especially among interior designers who like to start from scratch. Celeste Cooper, the design director of Repertoire, a high-end contemporary furniture store in Boston and in Manhattan, acknowledged that "there's nothing more dreadful than an interior designer who insists that you have to throw out everything you have." But she rejected the theory that "all the things you love will somehow fit together." 
"There's only so much a designer can do to meet your fantasies of what your space could look like by just shuffling around your existing furniture," she said. "It's a question of failed expectations. Eclecticism badly done is a license for chaos."
Elaine Notestine, the owner of the Dovecote, an interior design firm in Dallas, said: "Just as there's a big difference between optometrists and ophthalmologists, and chiropractors and surgeons, there's a big difference between decorators and designers. Most of these 'redecorators' can make things pretty, but they also need to have a knowledge of scale, proportion and good design."
When my redecorators returned to check the paint job and to make their next move, they brought along Tom Greene, a decorator who helps them move furniture and select accessories like lamps and trays. Then they ordered my fiance and me out of the house.
"Some people find change traumatic," Ms. Sturman said. "It's better for them to see the whole thing pulled together, instead of focusing on why we're moving this lamp and that table. I mean, it's not like we're going to do something horrible to your house." (Shades of "Trading Spaces," the hit redecorating show on the Learning Channel.)
Ms. Volpe gave the real reasons: "We move faster if you're not there." And "we swear at each other."
Five hours later we surveyed our made-over rooms. We loved the bold colors on the walls, the sheer cotton-polyester curtains hung on the living room windows ($318 for ready-made panels and hardware) and the white wicker chair from the bathroom, which had been spray-painted black ($15 for three cans) and moved next to the mantel. A black velvet club chair, previously shoved against the nonfunctioning fireplace, had migrated to the radiator. A large wicker trunk from Pier I ($200) held all the toys that used to clutter the floor, and the ottoman, now functioning as a giant coffee table, had been slip-covered in a durable deep rust textured cotton remnant ($25, plus $50 for the seamstress). The rugs had been switched around; a chest of drawers from the guest room had been spray-painted black ($15 for three more cans) and placed in the dining room with a gateleg table unearthed upstairs.
A tableau had been created in the once-barren foyer with more goods hauled down from upstairs: another gateleg table, two chairs, a lamp and a plant. 
Our costs were modest: $750 for their services and $655 for items they purchased. Painting the two rooms and foyer added another $1,600.
We sat blinking and staring for hours. Was this really our house? Where did all the seating in the living room come from? Why couldn't we figure any of this out ourselves? And why do we own so many stupid wicker baskets? Then we realized that having your house redecorated is a little like getting your hair restyled. It's never quite right when you leave the salon. You need to mess it up, wet it down, blow dry it yourself before you really start to love it.
And so, after a little redecorating of our own (we returned some red lacquer vases and sneaked our photographs back onto the mantel) our house finally started to feel like home.
For the first time.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a listing last Thursday with an article about Dotty Volpe and Dolly Sturman, redecorators who work with the furniture and accessories their clients already own, omitted part of the name of a redecorating business in Upper Montclair, N.J., that takes a similar approach. It is By Design Interiors, not Design Interiors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SWATCH TEAM -- Dolly Sturman, far left, and Dotty Volpe reinvented the writer's living room, dining room and foyer using furniture on hand and fresh paint, fabrics and accessories.; HIDDEN POTENTIAL -- A makeover included sheers for the living room windows and artwork rescued from storage.; INSIDE -- It's spring, crocuses are blooming and two books on do-it-yourself restyling are coming out: Page 6. (Photographs by Jared Leeds for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WHAT'S OLD IS NEW AGAIN -- Before moving into their three-floor Victorian, the writer, left, and her fiance thought that decorators were not for them. Their restylers (seated, from left, Dolly Sturman and Dotty Volpe), introduced warmth by painting the dining room deep red and reupholstering an ottoman with a deep rust textured cotton remnant; they created a tableau in the formerly empty foyer, below, using furniture the author had placed upstairs. (Photographs by Ed Quinn for The New York Times); (Jared Leeds for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%) INTERIOR DESIGN 

PERSON: ZIGMAN, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



519 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Out of Jail and Out of Food 

BYLINE:  By Herman Schwartz; Herman Schwartz, professor of constitutional law at American University, is chairman of the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After barely two minutes of debate, a floor amendment was added to the 1996 welfare law that denies food stamps and welfare (Temporary Aid to Needy Families) for life to anyone convicted of a drug felony. It is doubtful that the members of Congress realized a large part of this burden would fall on struggling women and their young children.
 A study by the Sentencing Project, a research organization based in Washington, estimates that since the ban went into effect in 1996, 92,000 women have been convicted of drug offenses in the states enforcing it. Of these, about two-thirds are mothers, with 135,000 children among them. 
 Obviously, the only people hurt by this denial of benefits are the poor, which usually means a minor offender who is an addict and out of jail trying to make it. The big operators, the manufacturers and distributors of illegal drugs, don't need government benefits. And offenders in prison are being supported by the state.
States can opt out of this ban, but 42 still enforce it for at least some drug felons. The offender can do nothing to lift the ban, regardless of whether that person is only a minor or a first offender, in treatment or cured, sick or pregnant or supporting a family -- and regardless of whether he or she lives a completely blameless life forever after.
Theoretically, the law denies these benefits only to the person convicted and not to the rest of the family, but this distinction is often meaningless. A single-parent family of three, for example, in which only the two children are entitled to food stamps, will obviously divide the food three ways. And when the mother cannot get welfare benefits she may not apply for them for others in the family.
Many of the women likely to be affected by this rule are among life's saddest victims. A study of 31 women in a drug treatment facility in Philadelphia found that almost all had been sexually assaulted by boyfriends, stepfathers, fathers and others. Many were physically sick -- with diabetes, hypertension and sexually transmitted diseases -- and many were mentally ill.
Ex-prisoners have always had a hard time getting jobs, and because of the recession and Sept. 11, it is now even harder. Few drug offenders have any community help or other supports, and because of their drug convictions they are often unable to get into public housing. Many become homeless.
Residential drug treatment centers are also hurt by this ban. They usually require those they treat to turn over their food stamps and other benefits; the centers use these to supplement their own resources.
The Senate has passed a repeal of the ban as an attachment to an authorization bill for the Justice Department. The House is not likely to follow suit: Chairman Bill Thomas of the Ways and Means Committee wants the issue debated as part of the welfare reform reauthorization coming later this year. Restoration of food stamps to some of the neediest Americans is too important to be tied up in legislative maneuvering. Members of Congress must get together and pass it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FELONIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (77%); SENTENCING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); PRISONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (66%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (64%); DIABETES (60%); STEPPARENTS (50%); HYPERTENSION (50%) WELFARE (US); WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOOD STAMPS 

ORGANIZATION: SENTENCING PROJECT (57%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, HERMAN (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



520 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Effective victory in the war against terror hinges on cutting off resources.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and of a new journal of social health, Indicators. Both publications are based in Armonk, N.Y. He is an adjunct professor of humanities at Cooper Union. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
THE war against terrorism promises to be a long one, and the horror of Sept. 11 may suggest that pulling out all the stops is justified. But any government policy, including war, has costs and benefits. Can traditional economic analysis provide useful insights into how to fight this war? Relevant analysis has been undertaken at least since the late 1970's, with a number of economists now specializing in this. Their findings are sometimes frustrating, but, by no means conclusive, can be surprisingly useful.
 A first step is to determine all the costs of a terrorist attack. Sept. 11 clearly went beyond the loss of life, however tragic. The attack had serious economic consequences for consumer spending and airline travel. It had long-term consequences for the costs of insurance, new construction safeguards and airline security, to name but a few. It also took an emotional and psychological toll on the nation. In nations where terrorism is more common, experience shows that it deters foreign investment, and probably domestic investment as well. Tourism can be permanently reduced. Thus, however gruesome the calculus is, preventing terrorism has wide benefits. 
 But the more sophisticated economic analysis has to do with how best to fight such a war. One way of looking at terrorists is to understand that, as with consumers, they are constrained by financial resources -- and by the number and skills of their personnel. Also, a terrorist act, like a consumer purchase, has a certain benefit, or utility. For terrorists, the benefit is usually creating political instability.
For consumers, if a product becomes more expensive, we may buy less of it. For terrorists, if an act is made more difficult, or more dangerous, they will perceive that the cost is raised and may be deterred. They cannot afford many failures or the loss of personnel.
The first study to analyze terrorism this way was by William Landes in 1978. He found, for example, that when metal detectors were installed at American airports in 1973, there were far fewer hijackings the next three years.
The success of metal detectors was widely accepted then. But like consumers, terrorists may not merely stop buying a product, they may buy a cheaper substitute. Todd Sandler of the University of Southern California, a pioneer in the field, found that terrorists did just that. In a complex statistical analysis that would not have been clear in a mere eyeballing of the data, he and a co-author, Walter Enders of the University of Alabama, showed that terrorists usually sought ways to circumvent metal detectors. Among the most effective was to make bombs out of liquids. What is most compelling about the findings of Mr. Sandler and Mr. Enders is that the number of terrorist incidents remained about the same, but the techniques were changed to avoid detection. 
Similarly, when American embassies were bombed in the 1980's, the government fortified the compounds. But the consequence, Mr. Sandler and Mr. Enders write, was a "disturbing increase in assassinations of officials and military personnel outside of protected compounds." Now military and business personnel are usually protected, but tourists and civilians remain at risk.
Their analyses also suggest that terrorist activities ebb and flow in cycles. They find that incidents declined sharply in the 1990's, though casualties were higher. The danger is that when attacks decline, a nation becomes lax. In fact, they warned back in 2000 that cyclical patterns suggested that major terrorist activity was due again.
The policy implications are clearly frustrating. Preventive activity, like more elaborate security checks at airports, should be intensified. But Mr. Sandler and Mr. Enders say it is almost inevitable that terrorists will seek new ways to accomplish the same thing. "It's unlikely a terrorist will try to use a shoe again," Mr. Sandler says. Thus, the ideal strategy is something like a full-court press. Adopt measures that address existing terrorist methods, but also try to anticipate new methods and technologies.
The evidence compiled by a range of researchers using these techniques also suggests that immediate military retaliation does not reduce terrorism over time. In the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, retaliation generally seems to encourage further terrorist response. In another example, the United States raided Libya in April 1986 for its suspected engineering of a discotheque bombing in Berlin. But Mr. Sandler and Mr. Enders noted an immediate rise in terrorism aimed at American and British facilities and personnel around the world.
In the Afghan war, some economists, including Mr. Sandler, argue that the cost of terrorism has been raised so high that this retaliation will be more effective than past efforts. At the least, the terrorist organization has been severely disrupted. But Mr. Sandler also predicts that the impact, if more durable than most retaliatory efforts, will be temporary at best.
Thus the best hope of preventing terrorism is to focus on terrorists' resources. A war on terrorism should provide ample means to find and confiscate terrorists' money, and make future financing more difficult. It should also be directed at undermining the training and recruiting of terrorists, including encouraging nations not to harbor terrorists.
International cooperation is crucial in a war against terrorist resources. The Bush administration has made efforts in this direction. But these analyses suggest the efforts should be redoubled. Serious cooperation directed at minimizing terrorist resources may well be more effective over time than military action.
One last point is clear. Among the most important resources of terrorists are unemployment, poverty and underdevelopment. There is deep controversy among economists about the economic determinants of terrorism. But terrorist recruits are often unemployed males. Deep-seated grievances also motivate recruits. If focusing on resources is the best strategy, economic aid and fostering development strategies should be integral parts of it.
At the least, we should be clear-eyed about the probable costs and benefits. Maybe most important, economic analysis of these emotional issues can help us remain objective. A simple eyeballing of the data on terrorism, without sophisticated statistical interpretation, can be highly misleading.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The aftermath of an American missile attack in 1998 on a suspected terrorist camp in Afghanistan. Do retaliatory military acts discourage terrorists or further incite them? (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); AIRLINES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (83%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); AIRPORTS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); WRITERS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%) ;UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA; UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; SANDLER, TODD (PROF); ENDERS, WALTER (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



521 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: In Los Angeles, a Traveler's Best Friend 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 20 

 BODY:
Since Sept. 11, airport security officials have been armed with an array of new high-tech weapons in the battle against terrorism. Officer Michael Ahumada of the Los Angeles International Airport police force keeps the most important item in her arsenal tucked discreetly in a pocket just below her gun.
 It is a tennis ball tied to a long orange string. 
 "Here, Jackson," she said to a dog that leaped and snapped joyfully as Officer Ahumada bounced the ball above its head in the international terminal. 
"You can't do anything without this," she said. "But it's her reward for doing a good job."
With little fanfare, bomb-sniffing dogs have become among the most effective, and important, security tools at airports, federal and local airport officials say. They work quickly and have an almost perfect record in separating real explosives from merely suspicious items -- which has made them one of the best friends of harried travelers desperate to avoid the security delays that mar air travel.
While billions of dollars are being spent on devices that peek inside suitcases and carry-on bags, given the new federal mandates on screening all baggage, dogs offer reassurance and are far less intimidating than some of the new measures.
In no city have the dogs made more of a difference than Los Angeles, which faces a far more serious security challenge than any other airport.
Los Angeles has the third-busiest airport in the country in terms of passenger traffic, after Chicago's O'Hare and Atlanta's Hartsfield airports, but it is the busiest in the world as measured by the amount of luggage it handles. The reason: more travelers begin their trips here, rather than merely make connections. That leaves officials with the job of screening roughly 150,000 pieces of checked baggage each day.
It is a task that frequently leaves officials with tough decisions about whether to evacuate terminals each time something unusual is found.
In recent weeks there have been several major disruptions -- one when an officer forgot to plug in a security wand, one when a replica of a grenade was found in a bag, and another when a scanner mistook a coffee grinder for a bomb -- each sending ripples through airports around the country because dozens of flights were delayed.
The issue is particularly significant for Los Angeles because the airport, operating well beyond the capacity it was designed for 20 years ago, generally rates poorly among travelers. J. D. Power & Associates, which runs surveys and rankings, says that travelers rate the airport here below average, in large part because it is aging and, since it is broken up into small terminals, offers far fewer shopping and eating choices than newer airports do.
Using dogs to screen luggage "has been around, but it was not really on the front burner," said Michael DiGirolamo, the airport's deputy executive director of operations. "They were valuable before, but they are much more valuable now. There's no question, the dogs are quicker and they have fewer false alarms."
Frank A. Clark, the executive director of the company that operates the big international terminal here, said: "There is no downside to these dogs. It's all positive because we've got to get away from closing terminals whenever a problem is found. The dogs are a big help in that."
The airport police here had no bomb-sniffing dogs before Sept. 11, but the Los Angeles Police Department rotated a few teams through the airport. Since then, the airport police have bought five dogs, for about $11,000 each, including training, and five more are on the way.
Jackson is a 3-year-old, female Dutch-born Belgian Malanouis, one of the most popular breeds because of its sensitive nose and cheerful manner. The airport also has some German shepherds. Federal officials said that Labrador retrievers and even standard poodles are being trained for airport duty around the country.
The Transportation Security Administration, the new federal agency overseeing airport security, estimates that the number of the dogs nationwide will rise to 300 in about two years, from 175 now, spread over 80 airports.
Officials here say the dogs may prove the salvation of travelers because they may do more to prevent unnecessary terminal evacuations and other security delays than many of the expensive new devices, like the massive CTX machines, which run a CAT scan of luggage. The airport here has 13 of the machines -- each weighs about 8,000 pounds and is roughly the size of a hefty sport utility vehicle -- with more on the way.
"Where they really help the most is in that gray area, when we're asking, 'Should we or shouldn't we evacuate?' " Sgt. Blair Lindsay of the airport police said of the dogs. "They're so good. We always trust them."
Officer Ahumada said that on several occasions Jackson has cleared suspicious bags that, without the dog, might have prompted an evacuation. The dogs are trained to identify 13 varieties of explosive, including gunpowder and C-4.
"They're mobile and they can lead you to the source of a problem," said Rebecca Trexler, a spokeswoman for the Transportation Security Administration.
They also cheer people up. Strolling through a terminal here with Jackson was like being with Julia Roberts on a crowded city street. Nearly everyone who noticed her responded with a smile or an outstretched hand, followed by kissing sounds. Three Japanese travelers rushed over and cooed, "Kawaii," meaning, "Cute!"
"We chose these dogs in part because we want this," Sergeant Lindsay said. "People feel good around them."
Travelers said the dogs gave them a visceral sense of security that the machinery did not.
"I just thought immediately when I saw the dog, 'This is very good,' " said Robert Prokop, a businessman from Germany. "Everyone likes dogs, but you know what they can do. It's safer."
Nearby, a young couple smiled at the lanky dog and gave her a little scratch.
"To me it's a lot more reassuring to see them, and they don't carry machine guns," said Kelly Farnsworth. "It's more efficient, too."
David Hicks, a visitor from New Zealand, said, "It's a great idea, much friendlier."
Even the officers said that they felt more relaxed.
"I don't know how the machines work," Sergeant Lindsay said. "Somehow I feel better knowing a brain is thinking about this and continually separating out the small things. I really have a lot of confidence in these dogs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officers at Los Angeles International Airport now patrol the terminals with bomb-sniffing dogs. They work quickly and, officials say, have resulted in fewer false alarms than machines screening for explosives. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (96%); AVIATION SECURITY (91%); DOGS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (72%); RANKINGS (70%); MARKETING SURVEYS (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DOGS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



522 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS; 
Dow and Nasdaq Both Retreat as Investors Take Profits

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A weaker outlook for Intel and the possibility of higher interest rates prompted investors to collect profits yesterday, pushing the markets sharply lower.
 Wall Street's losses widened as the session went on, with the Dow industrials falling more than 130 points. The Nasdaq composite index posted its weakest close this month. The drop followed the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to leave interest rates unchanged, although the central bank hinted of possible increases later this year. 
 "There's a lot of concern that when rates go up, the recovery will slow down," said Stephen Carl, head of United States equity trading for the Williams Capital Group.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 133.68 points, to 10,501.57. On Tuesday, the Dow closed at its highest level of the year. The index has advanced for five weeks on increasing signs that business is improving.
Stocks rallied on Tuesday after the Fed's move affirmed that the recession could soon be over, but investors were cautious yesterday, said Alan Ackerman, executive vice president of Fahnestock & Company.
"Economists believe the Fed will reverse last year's trend of rate cuts with a rate hike in June or September," Mr. Ackerman said.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 48 points, to 1,832.87, its lowest level this month. The last time the Nasdaq ended lower was March 1 when it stood at 1,802.74. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 18.44, to 1,151.85.
Traders said they were concerned that the Fed would increase interest rates before corporate earnings improved, which would make it difficult to justify the prices of some stocks.
Shares of Intel fell $1.19, to $30.53 after its second-quarter earnings and revenue estimates were lowered by Salomon Smith Barney. Shares of a rival, Advanced Micro Devices, dropped 62 cents, to $14.17.
Other technology companies reporting lower share prices included Microsoft, down $2.13 at $60.10, and I.B.M., off $1.99 at $105.50. Analysts said the technology sector would be the last to emerge from the recession as it waited for other companies to resume spending on computers and networking equipment.
Investors in the last month have heard upbeat reports from old-economy sectors including manufacturing. So yesterday's report that construction of new homes rose a bigger-than-expected 2.8 percent in February, to its highest level since December 1998, failed to encourage much buying.
Home builders also traded lower, which analysts attributed to the prospect of higher interest rates. Shares of Lennar fell $2.17, to $52.62, despite the company topping first-quarter earnings estimates by 4 cents a share.
Shares of the Biopure Company jumped $3.13 yesterday, or 39 percent, to $11.15, after reporting on a clinical trial in which 59 percent of the orthopedic surgery patients receiving Hemopure, its artificial blood substitute, had not needed human blood transfusions during surgery or a 42-day recovery period.
One big loser was Bristol-Myers Squibb. Its shares fell nearly 16 percent, down $7.57 at $41.08, after disclosing that tests of its blood pressure drug, Vanlev, was no more effective than existing treatments. --------------------

Treasury Prices Decline
By Bloomberg News
Treasury notes fell sharply yesterday on reports that housing starts grew sharply in February, fueling expectations of an increase in interest rates. 
Investors sold Treasury notes a day after the Federal Reserve said that economic risks were now more evenly balanced between inflation and weakness. 
"The major catalyst for these sizable liquidations was the housing- starts statistics," said William Sullivan, director of money market research at Morgan Stanley. "The market hit a brick wall in response to the report, and we saw a cascade to lower prices." 
The 10-year note dropped 29/32, to 96. Its yield increased to 5.4 percent from 5.28 percent. The 30-year bond dropped more sharply, declining 1 6/32, to 93 26/32. Its yield rose to 5.82 percent from 5.73 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (62%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); ORTHOPEDICS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (69%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



523 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Kidnappings By Koreans Have Angered The Japanese 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 20 

 BODY:
From a courtroom here, new details about a North Korean program to kidnap Japanese citizens in the 1970's and 1980's are stoking animosity in Japan.
 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi met Tuesday with Japanese citizens who say their relatives were kidnapped by North Korean agents during that era. Mr. Koizumi said he wanted North Korea to understand the seriousness of the matter. 
 "The problem involves not only the family members, but the whole state of Japan," he said. 
Japan has been lukewarm about the Bush administration's grouping of Iraq, Iran and North Korea as an "axis of evil." But the court testimony last week strengthened sentiments here against North Korea.
In court, Meguni Yao, the former wife of a Japanese leftist, said that when the couple lived in North Korea during the 1980's, she tried to lure lonely Japanese students, some of them studying abroad, to North Korea. There they were to either join a government-supported "Japan Revolutionary Village" or to train North Korean spies for work in Japan.
Ms. Yao said that in 1983 she lured one woman, Keiko Arimoto, then 23, from London, where she was studying English. Once in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, she was forced to marry a Japanese man who had also been lured there. On Saturday, Ms. Arimoto's parents said that Ms. Yao had told them that she had also lured two other Japanese women to North Korea.
"I am responsible for destroying the life of Arimoto," Ms. Yao, now 46, said in court. "I have brought about tremendous pain on her as well as her parents. I did something unforgivable for a human being."
The Japanese police say they have 13 cases of Japanese citizens who are presumed to have been abducted to North Korea. At a human rights conference here last month, advocates said they knew of 73 cases.
With public anger mounting, Prime Minister Koizumi met Tuesday with Ms. Arimoto's parents and with family members of Megumi Yokota, who disappeared at age 13, in 1977, from a beach facing North Korea. Her parents say she has been spotted in Pyongyang.
"We must take resolute measures in the abduction cases," the Mr. Koizumi told Parliament last week, outlining an interagency task force to study the abductions.
Japan was already moving toward isolating North Korea. After giving it more than 1.1 million tons of food aid from 1995 to 2000, Japan ended food aid last year. In Tokyo, the police are poring over the books of a failed credit union that is suspected of funneling millions of dollars to Pyongyang in the 1990's.
Using intelligence from American military spy satellites, the Japanese Coast Guard keeps a close watch for North Korean spy boats that approach Japanese territorial waters. 
Japan's nationalist right is demanding that Japan salvage a suspected North Korean spy boat that sank in an economic zone claimed by China in December after a firefight with Japanese Coast Guard boats.
"If the government fails to raise the ship in deference to China, the Koizumi cabinet will not last for long," Shintaro Ishihara, governor of Tokyo, threatened this month.
For a while, North Korea's Red Cross Society said it was searching for the missing Japanese, a search it angrily abandoned after the police arrested officers of the North Korean-affiliated bank here on embezzlement charges.
"Reactionary organizations and riffraffs in Japan are these days making much fuss about the issue of 'suspected kidnapping,' a fiction, at the connivance and instigation of the government authorities" to get on North Korea's nerves, a Red Cross Society press statement said.
Yomiuri Shimbun, a conservative Japanese daily, responded in an editorial headlined "Pyongyang's Deceit Exposed: North Korea Biting Hand That Feeds It."
North Korea's refusal to account for the missing Japanese or allow them to correspond with their family members may stem from the fact that the kidnapping program was elaborated in the mid-1970's by Kim Jong Il, the son of Kim Il Sung, North Korea's leader, shortly after he took over direction of the North's espionage efforts. The younger Mr. Kim is now the North's leader.
Kim Jong Il ordered that foreigners be kidnapped to educate North Korean spies in foreign languages and customs, said Tstutomu Nishioka, an executive of a private group here, the National Association for the Rescue of Japanese Kidnapped by North Korea.
The association has 26 chapters across Japan. It has obtained 1.6 million signatures on a petition asking the Japanese government to put pressure on North Korea to account for the missing Japanese. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ESPIONAGE (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); WOMEN (76%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (72%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%) KIDNAPPING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



524 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Rise To Three-Year High, Bolstering Economy 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Housing starts rose in February to the highest level in more than three years, government figures showed today, suggesting that the construction of new homes will underpin a rebounding economy.
 At an annual pace, builders began work on 1.769 million homes last month, up 2.8 percent from a 1.721 million rate in January, the Commerce Department said. That is the most homes started since December 1998 and reflects the fastest pace of single-family housing construction in more than 23 years. 
 "America wants to buy a home," said Stuart Miller, the chief executive of the Lennar Corporation, the large home builder. "As the economy remains, within a range, fairly strong, as interest rates remain historically low, I think the consumer continues to make the decision to own a home."
The report suggests that the economy's recovery will be stronger than expected and may prompt Federal Reserve policy makers to raise interest rates by midyear.
The 30-year mortgage rate rose to 7.08 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac, the large buyer of mortgages. Rates may keep rising after Fed officials indicated on Tuesday that they had dropped their 15-month-old view that weak growth was the biggest threat to the economy.
Rising interest rates will not necessarily choke off the housing market. A record number of houses were sold last year -- in the first recession in a decade -- as 30-year mortgage rates averaged 6.97 percent. That was down from 8.05 percent in 2000, the third-best year for combined new and sales of existing homes in history.
Analysts had expected housing starts to fall from a previously reported rate of 1.678 million units in January.
Starts of single-family homes, which account for about 8 of 10 houses being constructed, increased 7.4 percent in February, to a rate of 1.457 million units. That is the fastest since December 1978, Commerce Department officials said. February starts of multifamily homes, like apartment buildings and town houses, dropped 14.3 percent, to a 312,000 annual rate.
Building permits, an indicator of future construction, increased 1.8 percent, to 1.752 million units at an annual rate, the fastest in a year, after rising 4.1 percent the previous month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING STARTS (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVES (55%) HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FREDDIE MAC 

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



525 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Commissioner Defends Plan For Garbage and Recycling 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New York City's sanitation commissioner, facing sometimes heated questions at a City Council budget hearing yesterday, said that cutting the recycling program in half and transferring garbage from one borough to another for cheaper disposal were the least painful ways to keep his department's budget solvent through the city's financial crisis.
 The alternative, said the commissioner, John J. Doherty, is a dirtier New York, with possible reductions in the frequency of trash pickup and cutbacks in street cleaning. He vowed repeatedly that the Fresh Kills Landfill in Staten Island would never be reopened, but said that the reality of the city's budget dilemma was forcing many choices he wished he did not have to make. 
 "We can play around the fringes," Mr. Doherty said, in response to a question about how he might find savings other than his proposed cuts. "But the only other big dollar amount is picking up the waste every day." 
Mr. Doherty's comments, the first detailed defense of his department's proposed budget since it was released last month by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, evoked the specter of a New York that had seemed left in the long ago past of the 1970's, when garbage piling up in the streets became one of the symbols of a fiscal crisis that touched just about every function of government.
But his nearly two-and-a-half-hour appearance before the Council's Committee on Sanitation and Solid Waste Management also raised again and again the question of whether budget cutting -- however dire the emergency -- could justify rethinking what many council members said were political and philosophical issues that had seemed long settled, like the value of recycling.
"Recycling is not a budget issue, it's a policy," said the committee's chairman, Michael E. McMahon, a Democrat from Staten Island.
Mr. Doherty agreed that the suspension of recycling for metal, glass and plastic, which would save the city about $56 million in the fiscal year beginning on July 1, was painful for him to contemplate because it seemed to back away from the city's commitment to long-term waste reduction.
"But at one point do you say this is ridiculous -- we can't pay that much money?" he said of recycling. "A of people feel good about it, they feel happy about it, and you know, it's an ideal thing to do, but at what cost?" 
Some of the council members also expressed dismay about the Sanitation Department's proposed plan to move about 1,500 tons of trash a day -- about one-eighth of the city's residential daily total of just over 11,000 tons -- from Queens to the Bronx, where cheaper contracts were negotiated for waste disposal. And once again the questions were not so much about the dollar savings as they were about what many members of the committee said would be a shift in policy and a reneging on old promises. When Fresh Kills was closed last year, the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that under the replacement plan each of New York's five boroughs would be self-sufficient in trash disposal so that no borough would become a dumping ground, as Staten Island was for nearly half a century.
One council member, James S. Oddo, a Republican from Staten Island, said he feared that changing the system to allow interborough garbage transfers would give life to "conspiracy theories" in Staten Island that Fresh Kills, even if it is not reopened for actual dumping of trash, might at some point be used as a giant collection site for transport out of the city by truck or barge.
Mr. Doherty said that the idea of borough self-sufficiency had been a "goal," and that it would remain the city's long-term policy. Budget pressures had forced its reconsideration only for the short term, he said. 
"Our long-term plan will continue to be one that has been approved, that we will not export waste from one borough to another, but one has to keep an open mind on all these things," he said. "I think everybody really thought we could live by it, but we're faced with a situation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); MAYORS (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) DOHERTY, JOHN J (COMR); JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



526 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Study Ranking Utility Polluters Aims to Sway Emissions Debate 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
As debate flares anew over White House plans to revise air pollution regulations, a study that ranks the biggest air polluters in the power industry is expected to be issued today. 
 The study was conducted by two environmental organizations and a large New Jersey utility and uses government data. It contends that a handful of companies accounts for at least half of the industry's most noxious emissions, including those that contribute to smog, acid rain and possibly global warming. Moreover, the study shows a wide disparity in the relative level of emissions produced by power plants, a gap that the authors say reflects the level of investment that companies have made toward improving their environmental performance. 
 The report's release is timed to sway the current discussion about revisions to air pollution rules.
One author, David Gardiner, said such changes could end up protecting the biggest polluters and removing incentives for the industry as a whole to reduce its rate of emissions.
"The very large disparity between the cleanest and the dirtiest companies," said Mr. Gardiner, one of the report's lead authors and the former director of climate change policy in the Clinton administration, "demonstrates that a large number of companies are relatively clean, and a relatively small number are responsible for the vast portion of emissions. It shows that clean electricity is both possible and profitable."
The study, "Benchmarking Air Emissions of the 100 Largest Electric Generation Owners in the U.S. -- 2000," is a collaboration between the environmental groups, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, and the utility, the Public Service Enterprise Group, based in Newark.
P.S.E.G., as the utility is known, reached a settlement in January with the federal Environmental Protection Agency that calls for the company to invest more than $300 million in the next decade to reduce emissions from its coal-fired plants in New Jersey. 
The study relies primarily on data that companies provided to the E.P.A. and the Energy Department for 2000. It details which corporations are the largest polluters and the relative emission levels of various pollutants by companies. In gross terms, the biggest polluters tend to be the companies that have the most power plants and that generate the most electricity. 
The three largest electricity companies in the United States -- American Electric Power, the Southern Company and the Tennessee Valley Authority -- together accounted for 17 percent to 24 percent of total industry emissions of the four pollutants tracked in the study. Those are sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which contribute to acid rain and haze; mercury, which is toxic to humans; and carbon dioxide, which is widely linked to global warming.
Southern, the Tennessee Valley Authority and other energy companies high on the study's list have lobbied the Bush administration strenuously to ease air pollution regulations, according to environmentalists, government officials and Washington lobbyists.
The study also ranks companies based on the amount of pollution produced relative to their power output. By that measure, Basin Electric Power Cooperative, a relatively small utility in Bismarck, N.D., that relies primarily on coal-fired power plants to supply over 100 rural electric co-ops, was identified as producing the highest output of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour of electricity. But the company contends that its plants are among the cleanest coal-burning plants in the nation.
Similarly, Aquila, a midsize utility in Kansas City, Mo., was 52nd among the 100 companies for the total amount of nitrogen oxides emitted, which reflects how many fewer plants it has, compared with the likes of American Electric Power. 
But Aquila's plants emit significantly more nitrogen oxides than American Electric Power's for each measure of energy generated, the study's data show. Aquila, formerly known as Utilicorp United, ranks third among companies that have the highest relative level of nitrogen oxide emissions, while American Electric Power ranks 11th.
The study points out that relative pollution levels vary according to the kinds of power plants. For example, utilities with a preponderance of plants using natural gas or nuclear fuel produce smaller relative pollutant levels than those with mostly coal-fired plants. Yet even among coal-fired plants, Aquila ends up third for nitrogen oxide emissions, according to the study.
The companies cited in the study did not have the opportunity to read it before its official publication. But based on information he received about the report, Ethan Hirsh, a spokesman for Aquila, contended that it failed to take note of how his company had improved its environmental performance. "We're constantly improving our emissions reductions," Mr. Hirsh said. "Looking strictly at the numbers would fool you a little bit."
Pat Hemplepp, a spokesman for American Electric Power, said the study was "giving you a snapshot of a year rather than a movie of what's been happening over the last decade." He noted that the industry had to function within Clean Air Act requirements, which grow more stringent with time, and that his company had reduced its emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides since 1990 and would continue to do so. 
But Mark Brownstein, director of environmental policy at P.S.E.G., noted that such a benchmark report was routinely done in the industry to compare companies on things like safety or earnings. P.S.E.G. itself fell within the 25 companies with the highest rate of sulfur dioxide emissions at their coal plants, a result that showed the company how much work it still had to do, he said.
"This is to get a sense of companies that have made investments in cleaner technology versus those that haven't," he said. "It asks: 'What kind of company are you? How are your investments paying off?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new study ranks the nation's utilities according to the relative amount of air pollution they produce. American Electric Power has worked on cutting emissions at this plant, along the Ohio River. (Associated Press); (Andrew Phillips/The New York Times) Chart: "Power and Pollution"A new study of pollution among the nation's 100 largest power companies found a wide disparity in the amount of emissions and the rate of air pollutants emitted per measure of electricity. Rate of pollution -- Pounds of CO2 emissions for each megawatt hour of electricity produced. Each bar represents one of the nation's biggest electric companies.* *Data available for only 93 of the 100 companies listed in the report. (Source: "Benchmarking Air Emissions of the 100 Largest Electric Generation Owners in the U.S.") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION (92%); EMISSIONS (90%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ACID RAIN (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); SMOG (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); BENCHMARKING (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RANKINGS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (67%) AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (84%); AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (58%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (53%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%) NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL; COALITION FOR ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIES; PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC 

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (84%); AEP (NYSE) (58%); PEG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; GARDINER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



527 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: In Twist, Idahoans Fight Toxic Cleanup 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SMELTERVILLE, Idaho, March 20 

 BODY:
Nancy Slaight knows that the federal government wants to spend big money in the Idaho Panhandle -- as much as $1.3 billion over several decades -- to clean up toxic mining waste in the Coeur d'Alene River Basin. But no thanks, she says.
 "We're not going to eat the dirt, so let it stay there," said Ms. Slaight, 65, a cashier at the Wayside Market here. "Leave it alone." 
 She is one of many here who oppose the government's plan to create one of the largest Superfund sites ever. The plan would vastly expand a 21-square-mile site, where children once had some of the highest levels of lead recorded, and remove lead and other mining wastes in a watershed stretching from the Montana border into Washington. 
Many towns have fought industry or government to force them to clean up pollution, but something very different is happening here in northern Idaho. Convinced that the government's plan is a huge overreaction and that designation of the area as a Superfund site would frighten away tourists and new businesses, many towns have joined a lawsuit to block expansion of the cleanup. 
Town or city councils in Smelterville, Wallace, Osburn, Mullan and Pinehurst have voted to back the lawsuit, and the fight is intensifying as the Environmental Protection Agency nears formal approval of the plan, expected in late spring. 
Many residents strongly support the cleanup, but others say the government is creating more problems than it is solving. 
Officials at the environmental agency say they have worked with local officials to define the problem and forge a solution.
"If contaminants are above a certain level, we can't ignore it," said Bill Dunbar, a spokesman for the agency's Northwest regional office. "We'd get sued by the good number of people there who do want a cleanup, and who want it sooner rather than later." 
The worst of the pollution has been the object of a cleanup project that began in the 1980's, after tests showed that residue from the area's giant silver smelters and the mine tailings were causing sharply elevated levels of lead in local residents, especially children. High levels of lead can cause developmental problems affecting children's growth, mental abilities and behavior. 
Here in Smelterville and nearby Kellogg, government workers wearing respirators dug up residents' lawns and replaced the lead-laden soil in a roughly 20-square-mile area. They scoured the sidewalks and capped huge piles of mine tailings, or residues, along the freeway. The smelters closed, and, in 1996, the giant stacks that had been local landmarks came down. 
Nearly all recent tests have shown a decline in blood-lead levels to roughly the national average, though how much of the drop can be attributed to the cleanup and how much to the decline in mining and smelter activity is arguable. Still, many seem to blame the government for the area's continuing economic distress and low property values. 
"They came in here and turned everything upside down, ruined our yards -- they're full of weeds, and I don't know what for," said Joe Alder, 80, a 43-year veteran of one of the mines who said he was skeptical that there was ever much of a pollution problem. "I've lived here all my life and I'm fine. There are kids here who've grown up to be teachers, or lawyers. They seem fine." 
Others are not so sure about the absence of a problem.
Jacob Brewer, a lumber-mill worker whose wife, 36, was born and raised here, said she had suffered from migraine headaches and thyroid problems for years. She had a battery of tests in the seventh and eighth grades that showed she had significantly elevated levels of lead. 
"I think it would take an awful lot of extensive medical tests to prove that lead did it," Mr. Brewer, 40, said of his wife's health problems. 
A large welcome-to-Smelterville sign just off the freeway depicts "our past" of smelters and "our future" of satellite dishes and other symbols of high technology. 
Whether Smelterville and other old mining towns can attract such business is an open question: but now, as the government seeks to expand the cleanup to areas that have less severe lead contamination, many seem convinced that the term "Superfund" will discourage businesses from coming and harm a small but growing tourist industry. 
"We're trying to diversify, we're trying to revamp an economy," said Bill Dire, a city councilman in Wallace. "But you go out and try to attract a company, and if they look at the Silver Valley and it's a Superfund site, well then you're automatically dropped in the tank. With tourists, it's exactly the same thing. Nobody wants to come to a place they feel is unsafe."
The environmental agency unveiled a $359 million expansion plan last October that seeks to clean up areas that continue to send lead and other dangerous metals into the Coeur d'Alene River Basin. The river transports those metals into Lake Coeur d'Alene, and into Washington via the Spokane River.
The plan would remove contaminated soil from about 1,000 more homes and along dozens of miles of streams and rivers.
Officials in many Idaho towns have demanded a new scientific review of lead pollution, which they are convinced will show that the problem is under control. But other residents are outraged by this bid for a delay. 
Barbara Miller, the director of the Silver Valley People's Action Coalition, which favors the cleanup, said many residents had been brainwashed into denying that lead pollution was much of a problem. 
"There's a real company-town mentality, the idea that for 100 years, Bunker Hill gave everybody a job, it can't be a bad thing," Ms. Miller said, referring to the local smelter site. "But there are real health problems, and the fact is, this cleanup is also the greatest economic opportunity this county has ever seen." 
But 40 miles downstream, where Lake Coeur d'Alene is the center of a growing business in conventions and tourism, many say that expansion would damage the economy without bringing major health benefits. 
"We don't think it's a selfish thing to admit or say we're worried about the stigma of the term 'Superfund,' " said Bret Bowers, director of Community Leaders for E.P.A. Accountability Now, a Coeur d'Alene group that opposes the Superfund expansion. 
"Superfund by its very nature implies that there are a multitude of problems that need to be cleaned up," Mr. Bowers said, "and what we're saying is we don't believe the E.P.A. science justifies the scope of the work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stacks like this one at the Bunker Hill Mining Company in Kellogg, Idaho, shown in 1996, became symbols of toxic pollution. Towns like Smelterville fear Superfund status will further harm a troubled economy. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times) Map of Idaho highlighting Coeur d'Alene River Basin: A $1.3 billion cleanup of toxic mining waste is set for the basin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); SUPERFUND (90%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEAD (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RIVERS (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); LEAD POISONING (69%); CITIES (68%); APPROVALS (65%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (60%); PRECIOUS METAL SMELTING & REFINING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; SUPERFUND; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; LEAD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MINES AND MINING 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (90%) IDAHO, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) IDAHO; COUER D'ALENE RIVER BASIN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



528 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Health Care Lobbying, Then in State Health Care Spending 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 20 

 BODY:
In the year before state lawmakers approved a huge increase in health care spending, the powerful hospital workers' union and allied hospitals spent almost $4 million lobbying for that increase, far more than any other interest group spent to influence the state.
 The union, 1199/S.E.I.U., and the Greater New York Hospital Association spent more than twice as much on lobbying in 2001 as they did in 2000, most of it going to television and radio ads to sway public opinion, which they expected would in turn influence legislators and Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 The figures were released today by the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying, in its annual report. 
The investment apparently paid off. In January, the Legislature and the governor approved a sweeping health care law that increased payments to hospitals and nursing homes by $1.7 billion, with most of the money earmarked for salary increases for 1199's members.
The report provides new illustration of the extraordinary power of the union and its leader, Dennis Rivera, who only yesterday endorsed Mr. Pataki, a Republican, for re-election. Democrats complained that the endorsement was nothing more than a political payoff for the health care deal by a traditionally Democratic, heavily minority union.
"It's often said that you can't connect the dots between money spent lobbying and legislation," said Rachel Leon, executive director of Common Cause New York, a group that advocates more disclosure of lobbying expenses, and tighter restrictions on lobbyists. "Well, if you look at the No. 1 spender, 1199, we see a direct link. If you want a quid pro quo, there you go."
Mr. Rivera did not return calls seeking comment.
In a year when the governor and the Legislature approved the biggest increase in gambling since the creation of the state lottery in 1966, gambling interests spent $3 million on lobbying in 2001, double what they spent in 2000. After heavy lobbying by casino developers, Indian tribes, gambling machine makers, race tracks and others, lawmakers approved development in October of up to six Indian casinos, installation of slot-style machines at race tracks and expansion of the lottery.
Today's report also shows the astonishing rise as a lobbying power of Patricia Lynch, who set up shop as a lobbyist in January 2001, weeks after leaving her job as a top aide to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. Patricia Lynch Associates became one of the 10 highest-income lobbying firms here in its first year, at $1.14 million, largely a result of her access to Mr. Silver and other state officials. By year's end, she had 31 clients, including the Long Island Power Authority, Madison Square Garden, Avis, ABC, CBS, NBC, the Seneca Nation of Indians and major developers.
Lobbying commission members said today that for the first time, they would ask the Legislature to give them the power to ban people from lobbying, even permanently, for serious violations of the lobbying law. Historically, the Legislature has been reluctant to expand the commission's power, even refusing to make it a permanent state agency, but rather subject to renewal every few years.
The commission's executive director, David M. Grandeau, said that if the commission had had the power, he would have advocated lifetime bans against Donald J. Trump and Sharon Portnoy, a lobbyist for Philip Morris, the tobacco company, for recent violations. "There's nothing in the act right now that prevents people of bad character or who have done bad acts from lobbying," Mr. Grandeau said.
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts and related groups paid $250,000 in fines in 2000, and Philip Morris and Ms. Portnoy paid $90,000 in 1999, in both cases for concealing lobbying expenses from the commission and filing false reports. Ms. Portnoy agreed not to lobby the state for three years, but the commission had no power to force that restriction on her.
In all, the commission found, a reported $80 million was spent on lobbying the state last year, up from $66.3 million the year before, continuing a steep upward curve that has seen lobbying expenses double every six to seven years. Those figures do not include lobbying to influence the state's purchasing and contract awards, which does not have to be reported.
1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Service Union, and the Greater New York Hospital Association, which includes most hospitals in the New York metropolitan area and many nursing homes, have repeatedly demonstrated their political influence through their lavish, unorthodox lobbying expenses.
Rather than simply pay lobbyists to persuade elected officials, as most interest groups do, they buy advertising to sway public opinion and ask the public to put pressure on their representatives. They also, at times, threaten that if they do not get what they want, they will use ads that attack those officials directly, and will put 1199's formidable political phone bank operation to work against politicians.
In 1995, their barrage of ads against Mr. Pataki's proposed health care cuts was followed by the governor's partial retreat. In 1999, they mounted a $10 million advertising campaign, by far their biggest, to help win passage of a major expansion of health programs for the uninsured.
Last year, they feared deep budget cuts caused by the recession and the Sept. 11 attacks and wanted to find a way to pay for new contracts between the union and the hospitals and nursing homes. After another ad campaign, they won a major increase in health care spending by the state, in a year when money for many programs is being cut.
For 2001, the Healthcare Education Project, a joint effort of 1199 and the Greater New York Hospitals Association, reported $2.85 million in lobbying expenses, nearly all of it on ads, the most by any interest group. That figure does not count the amount spent after Dec. 31, in the final, most intense weeks of negotiating the health care package.
The hospital group and the union spent an additional $1 million on their own, for a total of $3.85 million last year. In 2000, they spent $1.6 million.
Several others among the top lobbying spenders, including other hospital and nursing home groups, pushed hard for the January health care law and benefited directly from it. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield ranked second in lobbying spending, at $1.4 million. The law allows Empire to convert from being a for-profit company, which will allow it to raise billions through the sale of stock, in return for giving about $1 billion of that to the state.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart on March 21 listing top spenders on lobbying in Albany included an erroneous figure for 2001 provided by the Empire State Association of Adult Homes and Assisted Living Facilities to the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying. The association spent $76,913, not $700,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Money for a Cause"The top 10 spenders on lobbying in 2001. LOBBYING GROUP: 1199/S.E.I.U., Health and Human Service Union, and the Greater New York Hospital Association*EXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 2.9 LOBBYING GROUP: Empire Blue Cross and Blue ShieldEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 1.4 LOBBYING GROUP: New York State United TeachersEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 1.3 LOBBYING GROUP: Medical Society of the State of New YorkEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 1.1 LOBBYING GROUP: Public Employees' FederationEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.9 LOBBYING GROUP: Civil Service Employees' AssociationEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.9 LOBBYING GROUP: Greater New York Hospital AssociationEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.8 LOBBYING GROUP: Empire State Association of Adult Homes and Assisted Living FacilitiesEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.7 LOBBYING GROUP: Business Council of New York StateEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.7 LOBBYING GROUP: Phillip Morris ManagementEXPENSES, IN MILLIONS: 0.6 *Through their joint political fund, the Healthcare Education Project(Source: Temporary State Commission on Lobbying)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (93%); LOBBYING (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); GAMING (88%); CASINOS (87%); NATIVE AMERICANS (85%); APPROVALS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); NURSING HOMES (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES MFG (50%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); COMMON CAUSE (54%) TEMPORARY STATE COMMISSION ON LOBBYING (NYS); GREATER NEW YORK HOSPITAL ASSN; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%)

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; RIVERA, DENNIS; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



529 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Staying or Not, Wall St. Giants Could Reap Aid 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The state and city have begun to send letters offering the first of dozens of multimillion-dollar federal grants to some of the most important financial companies in the world, in an effort to keep jobs in Lower Manhattan or lure them there.
 The money is part of $500 million in federal aid intended to protect the vibrancy of the city's historic financial district. After the attack on the World Trade Center, investment banks, insurance companies and law firms scattered, with as many as 30,000 employees relocating to New Jersey and Connecticut. The city feared the losses would be permanent, leaving a ghost town in Lower Manhattan. 
 The Bloomberg administration has not disclosed the names of companies designated for aid, or the amounts, but the candidates include the financial giants Merrill Lynch, American Express, Goldman Sachs and the Bank of New York; Aon, the insurance broker; and the law firms Thacher Proffitt & Wood and Pillsbury Winthrop.
The cash grants potentially raise thorny questions: Which companies are more valuable? If a company argues strenuously, will it get more money? Will the incentives reward companies like Citigroup and Lehman Brothers that are abandoning the financial district? The first crop of letters went out last week, according to Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, who discussed the matter at a lunch for real estate executives at a Midtown hotel yesterday.
While cash incentives to stay in New York are not new, these new grants have unusual characteristics. First, the national spotlight after Sept. 11 means that this will be more public, as opposed to the usual hush-hush business of economic incentives. Also, these grants are discretionary, and the criteria are not crystal clear.
"This is really a significant pool that can be used to make it cheaper to live and work down there," Mr. Doctoroff said.
While it is not clear that Aon, the insurance giant that was blasted out of the World Trade Center last September, is in the first crop of letters, the company's situation illustrates some of the difficult issues. Aon is considering subleasing 335,000 square feet of space in the 40-story tower at 125 Broad Street, which overlooks the East River, but is also looking elsewhere in Manhattan and in New Jersey. So it would be a coup if the grants lured Aon's 1,100 jobs back downtown.
But the space is now occupied by Salomon Smith Barney, the investment bank owned by Citigroup, under a lease that runs for nine more years, at about $30 a square foot a year, according to real estate brokers. Salomon wants to sublease its space, but it is asking for $53 a square foot in rent to cover what it spent outfitting the offices.
The grants would enable Salomon to break even on its lease as it moves employees out of the neighborhood, critics said, rather than having to lower the rent to compete in a market swollen with cheap, vacant space.
"They want to come out of this without taking a write-off," said one real estate broker who toured the space. "The only way to do that is with the city offering tenants an incentive package, underwriting the rent. But the incentive money is intended for economic development and to repopulate the downtown work force. Do you want to give money to attract subtenants to space abandoned by Citigroup or Lehman?"
Definitely not, said James A. Parrott, an economist and deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a research organization.
"It illustrates the flaw in their approach to the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan," Mr. Parrott said. "We always thought it made more sense to put the resources into infrastructure and public investments that will make Lower Manhattan attractive to companies and residents, rather than handing it out on a firm-specific basis."
There is plenty of vacant office space downtown, critics said, without the city offering incentives. At 55 Water Street alone, for instance, more than a million square feet is available. In the last year, the vacancy rate downtown has doubled to 14.1 percent, or 13.4 million square feet, according to Newmark & Company, a real estate firm. 
"You're rewarding a company for abandoning downtown," said Jonathan Bowles, chief researcher at the Center for an Urban Future, "and it may open the door for other companies to do the same thing."
According to real estate brokers, a number of companies are looking at space controlled by Lehman Brothers, which has about 1.7 million square feet of vacant space downtown, including its former headquarters in the World Financial Center. 
Despite Lehman's swift-footed decision after Sept. 11 to leave Lower Manhattan for a new headquarters near Times Square, Lehman could benefit from federal largesse that effectively makes its space more affordable to other companies. In the end, one broker said, Lehman may not have to lower the rent to attract a tenant.
In the days after the attack, Lehman told city officials it wanted to move to 180 Water Street. The city pushed aside Aon, which had negotiated a lease with the landlord, to make way for Lehman. Those same city officials were dumbfounded in early October when Lehman suddenly announced instead that it was buying a skyscraper at 745 Seventh Avenue in Midtown. 
Some city officials said the economic vitality of the district was so precarious that they must focus on retaining companies and luring new firms to empty space, not retribution. "I'd like to see Citigroup punished," one downtown official said. "But our priority is repopulating Lower Manhattan."
A Citigroup executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that there was "no basis" to think that the company's employees at 125 Broad Street would be move out of Lower Manhattan or the city.
Citigroup has laid off thousands of employees in recent months and it did not replace the 1.2 million square feet of office space it had at 7 World Trade Center, which was destroyed. But during a meeting with Gov. George E. Pataki in October, Sandy Weill, the chairman of Citigroup, also said that his company was overconcentrated in Lower Manhattan, where it had 16,000 employees.
At the luncheon, Mr. Doctoroff said the city and the state had recently sent out grant offers to about two dozen large companies. Those offers represent the first round of aid for about 150 companies that employ more than 200 people each, for a total of 125,000 workers. Mr. Doctoroff declined to name them until negotiations are completed. He said the criteria used to award the grants included the number of employees and the likelihood that a company would relocate.
Mr. Doctoroff added that some benefit packages would go to companies "that never had any intent to leave." Asked why, he said "first of all, everyone lies about it," with companies threatening to leave even if they really would not go. Beyond that, he said, "it probably is appropriate for people who recommit to downtown to get some money." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); MAYORS (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



530 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Facing Outcry, NBC Ends Plan To Run Liquor Commercials

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
Bowing to criticism, NBC said yesterday that it was ending a three-month-old experiment that would have brought the first liquor advertisements onto national broadcast network television.
 In December, NBC became the first broadcast network to head toward running liquor commercials, adopting a set of guidelines under which the makers of distilled spirits could advertise in a way similar to beer and wine makers. Under the guidelines, liquor companies had to run four months of so-called social responsibility ads on subjects like designated drivers before they could run commercials for brands of liquor. 
 The Guinness UDV division of Diageo, the giant British spirits producer, became the first distiller to advertise under the guidelines, which also limited the content of liquor spots and required that they appear only at night. Diageo started running commercials on Dec. 15 that promote designating a driver when others are drinking and that end with a brief appearance of the logo for its Smirnoff brand of vodka. Those spots were to have been followed in April by Smirnoff commercials. 
But the decision to accept liquor commercials -- in which NBC had not been joined by any of the three other big broadcast networks -- generated considerable outcries from some members of Congress and federal regulators, the American Medical Association and many public advocacy groups.
The criticism drowned out the support that the change received from some newspaper editorial pages and research organizations like the Cato Institute and the American Enterprise Institute.
"We went into this knowing we'd be plowing new ground and it would not come without controversy," said Alan Wurtzel, president for research at NBC, part of the General Electric Company, in a telephone interview from the network's headquarters in Burbank, Calif.
"We said we would do it as responsibly as we could," he added, "and after listening to the House and Senate, to the interest groups, we felt it was not appropriate to go to the next step at this point."
Diageo, in a statement yesterday, said: "We are very proud of our advertising and the support it has received. We will continue our discussions with NBC and other networks as we remain focused on attaining equal access to the airwaves."
Critics of NBC's decision to run liquor ads, who feared that it would encourage children and teenagers to drink, expressed satisfaction at the network's decision against proceeding with the product commercials.
"I'd like to credit NBC with listening to reason," said Joseph A. Califano Jr., chairman and president of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University and secretary of health, education and welfare in the Carter administration. "I'm sure they're also listening to Congress."
"Alcohol is the No. 1 drug of abuse by far for America's children," Mr. Califano added, "and keeping hard-liquor ads off broadcast television will help in the effort to curb underage drinking by removing the temptation and glamour." 
J. Edward Hill, the incoming chairman of the American Medical Association in Chicago, also lauded the decision. "NBC ought to be commended for a gutsy and socially responsible change of policy," he said, adding: "It's refreshing to see a corporation make a significant economic sacrifice. To be honest, I never dreamed they'd do it."
The medical association was the only opponent NBC cited by name in its announcement.
"NBC's decision doesn't end the story," said George Hacker, director for the Alcohol Policies Project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest in Washington, an advocacy group that fiercely opposed the liquor commercials, because, he said, there is still "the need to look at all alcohol-beverage advertising."
That, Mr. Hacker said, is particularly true with the recent introduction of flavored malt beverages known as alco-pops, which carry the names of liquor brands like Smirnoff, Bacardi and Jack Daniel's but follow the rules for advertising beer -- rules that are far less restrictive than those for distilled spirits.
The NBC retreat is indicative of the sensitivities that still exist as advertisers and media companies try to determine where the line of public acceptability is -- and not step over it, or at least not without considerable preparation and explanation. Even as four-letter words begin to be heard on the shows watched by tens of millions of broadcast network viewers, the NBC about-face indicates that there are still some advertising frontiers that will be extremely hard to cross.
Broadcast network executives had hoped that commercials for distilled spirits would become a new source of revenue -- particularly desirable in an economic downturn -- because such spots have been running since 1997 on radio stations and networks as well as on more than 400 local TV stations, local cable systems and national cable networks.
The spirits industry dropped its decades-long voluntary ban on running TV and radio commercials in 1997, saying it was outdated to follow different rules from those for brewers and vintners.
Diageo paid NBC to run the social responsibility ads, which the network is doing, and no money is to be given back. Neither NBC nor Diageo has disclosed how much Diageo planned to spend on the social responsibility or the product ads, and no estimate of the cost of yesterday's decision is known.
Peter H. Cressy, chief executive of the Distilled Spirits Council in Washington, commenting on the decision, said, "Policies on alcohol advertising need to be based on facts, not on preconceived notions or misperceptions." 
"NBC and Diageo are to be commended for responsible alcohol advertising," he said. "There would have been more social responsibility messages about drinking on television than ever before. Sadly, a few misguided critics, through their attacks on NBC, have undercut this effort."
The social responsibility commercials, which have been broadcast only after 11:30 p.m., will continue running until April 20, when they were scheduled to end. But the next phase, the spots for Smirnoff or other Diageo liquors, will not proceed.
"We said we'd listen" to the reaction to the policy change, Mr. Wurtzel said, "and we did."
"We realize there's a great deal more to discuss," he added. "It's a complicated issue."
As there is no timetable for NBC to proceed with such discussions, it seems highly unlikely that the liquor commercials will appear in the foreseeable future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (95%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DISTILLERIES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (86%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WINERIES (77%); BREWERIES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; LIQUOR; BEER; WINES 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); DIAGEO PLC (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); GUINNESS UDV (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (82%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%) NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; DIAGEO PLC; AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN 

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (84%); DGE (LSE) (84%); DEO (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (84%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; WURTZEL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



531 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: A Civil Turn for Erin Brockovich's Boss 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN 

DATELINE: THOUSAND OAKS, Calif., March 19 

 BODY:
In the two years since the release of the film "Erin Brockovich," Edward L. Masry has undergone something of a transformation.
 While still several notches more irascible than Albert Finney's characterization of him, Mr. Masry, the lawyer who took on the Pacific Gas and Electric Company -- and, with Erin Brockovich's help, won -- is making an effort to be accommodating as he grapples with the mayoralty of this city of 119,000 people northwest of Los Angeles. 
 His relative mellowing is in sharp contrast to his first months on the job last year, when he called the city attorney, a 15-year veteran, a "deaf-mute" and threatened to have him fired, and treated city staff members as though they were bumbling fools. He also described as "developers' whores" a group of citizens who had advocated an easing of building restrictions. 
"I'm telling it as I see it, and if I'm making misstatements of fact, vote me out," Mayor Masry thundered at a City Council meeting last year. "I'll sign the recall petition."
That may not be necessary. Some people here in southeastern Ventura County appear to be warming to Mr. Masry, 69, who was elected to the council in November 2000 on a slow-growth platform. Despite some reservations, his colleagues on the council named him mayor last November, for a one-year term.
"He's being very gentlemanly," said Richard J. Messina, 67, a retired RAND Corporation electronic warfare specialist who regularly attends council meetings. "He's a first-rate lawyer, and we've got a history of having council members who don't know enough about the law."
In a council meeting tonight, Mr. Masry did not remotely display his earlier confrontational style. In a subdued, slightly nasal voice, he read a proclamation on public safety and quietly endured a series of three-minute addresses from residents without interrupting anyone. He then methodically led the council through a 19-item agenda before adjourning.
Still, his support is not unqualified.
"He needs improvement," said Ralph Starita, 62, a retired truck driver and a 26-year resident.
Mr. Masry, a New Jersey native who grew up in the Van Nuys section of Los Angeles 20 miles away, had practiced in a wide array of legal fields -- and on occasion got into trouble with judges for contempt of court -- before taking on the utility at Ms. Brockovich's urging in 1992. That case, which resulted in a $333 million settlement for residents of the desert town of Hinckley, Calif., made both Mr. Masry and Ms. Brockovich wealthy.
Ms. Brockovich, who has no law degree and no plans to get one, remains the director of environmental research for Mr. Masry and his partner, James W. Vititoe. In the weeks after the release of "Erin Brockovich" on March 17, 2000, the law firm received some 100,000 requests for representation, its principals said. 
Defendants in pending lawsuits include Lockheed Martin, Dow Chemical, Shell Oil, Del Monte, Dole Food, Black & Decker and General Electric, all dealing with accusations of toxic contamination. 
In another case, Mr. Masry, who must undergo dialysis treatment three times a week, is going after a company that makes filters for dialysis machines. He said 56 people had died in this country, Spain and Croatia because the filters malfunctioned.
Mr. Masry and Ms. Brockovich, who were portrayed in the film as being almost constantly at odds, still have their battles. "I tried to fire her, but it didn't work," Mr. Masry said with a chuckle in an interview in his opulently decorated office. "She's never at a loss for words."
Ms. Brockovich, who was played by Julia Roberts in an Oscar-winning role, countered, "I respect Ed as I do my own father."
Mr. Masry's political persona did not inspire such respect, at least initially. Chuck Cohen, a local land-use lawyer, declared last year, "Mr. Masry, you're no Albert Finney."
What troubles some residents is Mr. Masry's penchant for bringing the rules of the courtroom into city meetings. He has been known to cross-examine staff members as though they were on trial, threatening punishment for committing perjury, for instance. 
When he ran for office, Mr. Masry said he fought with the council so often over development issues that he might as well join the five-member body. He billed himself as "the candidate developers fear most," and took on battles over a road extension and a flood control dam. From his own pocket, Mr. Masry paid for experts to study an alternative location for the dam.
Mr. Masry, who has represented a stripper named Lucky Winn, a television evangelist, the former "Baywatch" star Pamela Anderson and Los Angeles Rams football players, spent $184,349 to get elected, a record for this town.
This week, he and Ms. Brockovich held a news conference to oppose the $2 billion development of 3,050 homes along the Los Angeles County line.
In an interview, Mr. Masry acknowledged his debt to Ms. Brockovich, who enabled him to emerge from a middling career as a lawyer into a spotlight far brighter than he might have imagined. "She dragged me into the quicksand," he said, smiling. "I'm very appreciative."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Ed Masry of Thousand Oaks, Calif., who called a city official a "deaf mute" last year, with a city councilman before a Tuesday meeting. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); LITIGATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); PETITIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND LITIGATION; WATER POLLUTION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; MAYORS 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (84%); RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (84%); PCG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: MASRY, EWARD L (MAYOR); MADIGAN, NICK; BROCKOVICH, ERIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) THOUSAND OAKS (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



532 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY FORCE; 
Fielding an Afghan Army Is Months Off, U.S. Finds

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, March 20 

 BODY:
While the Bush administration says the way to maintain stability in Afghanistan is to train and equip an Afghan Army, a confidential review by the United States concludes that it will take many months to train and equip even a modest force.
 According to the American assessment, only 4,000 Afghan troops will be trained and equipped by the end of September. By the end of September 2003, the Afghan force would number only 12,000 troops. 
 The confidential American estimate reflects a review carried out by the United States Central Command, which dispatched a general to Afghanistan to study the possibility of creating a new army, officials said. It comes as the Bush administration and other nations have decided not to expand the international peacekeeping force beyond the capital, Kabul. 
The slow pace of building an Afghan Army, and the decision by the United States and its allies not to expand the peacekeeping force, leaves unclear just how Washington and its allies propose to deal with the quarreling warlords and rampant banditry that exploit Afghanistan's security vacuum.
Officials said today that the American review, led by Maj. Gen. Charles C. Campbell, had been presented to Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. A final version has not been prepared, but the estimates are not expected to change greatly, officials said.
Meeting with reporters shortly before leaving Ankara, Turkey, today, Vice President Dick Cheney said that the Bush administration had decided not to support an expansion in the international security force. 
"The focus on ISAF right now is on Kabul," Mr. Cheney said, using the acronym for the International Security Assistance Force, as the international peacekeepers are known. "We are not talking about expanding it to other regions of Afghanistan." 
"The U.S. clearly will have to find other ways of to deal with problems that may arise in Mazar-i-Sharif, Herat or Kandahar," he added. 
American officials said that to some extent, the problem of stabilizing Afghanistan may be eased by having American, British and other allied forces in the country. The purpose of the troops would be to track down and do battle with the remnants of Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters, but their presence might help keep the warlords in check, American officials insist.
In addition, some American officials said, even a small Afghan Army might be effective, because the bands of fighters they have to contend with would be smaller.
But experts say that the international forces will be too occupied with their combat mission, will not be dispersed in all of the key towns and cities in the country and are too few to keep the warlords in check.
The United States currently has about 5,200 combat troops in Afghanistan, and Britain is sending 1,700 more. Experts have estimated that 20,000 to 30,000 troops would be needed to stabilize Afghanistan.
"The military and political situation in Afghanistan remains fragile, and friction between rival ethnic groups and militias is expected to increase ahead of the traditional Loya Jirga that is to select a new interim government," the International Crisis Group, a nongovernmental group, said in a recent report. 
Hamid Karzai, the leader of the interim government, has also appealed for an expansion of the international force. 
State Department officials and British Foreign Office officials have said that Mr. Karzai has made a strong case for an expanded force. Richard N. Haass, the State Department's director of policy planning, said at the World Economic Forum that a force as large of 25,000 might be needed. 
But American and British officials have said in recent days that no nations are willing to contribute the additional troops. As a result, when Turkey takes command of the force this spring, it will be limited to Kabul.
The United States and its allies called for the deployment of international peacekeepers last year as they were trying to piece together a new Afghan government. 
At the Bonn meeting where proposals for the future of Afghanistan was laid out, it was agreed that the force would initially be based in Kabul, but the door was left open to deployments elsewhere.
The decision to deploy the peacekeeping force in Kabul meant that international peacekeepers would be providing security in the most orderly part of Afghanistan. Afghan officials and international aid agencies argued that the force should be deployed in other key towns and cities in Afghanistan to protect the delivery of aid and help reconstruction efforts. 
In Washington, the Central Intelligence Agency told policymakers that international peacekeepers would be accepted by local warlords, and it cautioned that the seeds of civil conflict had been planted in Afghanistan.
For the Bush administration, though, the issue was never to dispatch American troops to serve as peacekeepers. It was whether the Pentagon should take on the responsibility for supporting an enlarged force by flying in other nations' troops, providing them with intelligence and, most important of all, offering a guarantee that the forces would be extracted by the United States if they were in danger. 
Still, the Pentagon argued against this modest role, saying that it would divert resources from the war on terrorism. After an interdepartmental debate that pitted the Pentagon against State Department officials, the Pentagon prevailed. Mr. Cheney reportedly supported the Pentagon view.
Worldwide reluctance at taking on the task of rebuilding Afghanistan's security was indicated by the scant attention given the issue at conferences in Germany and Japan on Kabul's postwar government and economic development. While billions were pledged for civilian reconstruction, nothing was pledged to reconstruct an army.
Without an expanded peacekeeping force, the stability of Afghanistan will rely heavily on Germany's efforts to train a national police force and the United States' efforts to raise a new Afghan Army. Neither effort is moving quickly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICS (70%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HIJACKING (65%); AL-QAEDA (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%) GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (69%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); TURKEY (92%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GERMANY; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



533 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Shrinks 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Japan's merchandise trade surplus shrank 11.3 percent in February as exports slowed in the midst of the Chinese New Year, when many businesses in Asia are closed. Over all, exports fell 4.2 percent while imports fell 2.4 percent. The size of the declines in the surplus are narrowing, however, as demand for Japanese products picks up overseas. Japanese steel exports to the United States rose 24.6 percent from February 2001. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TRENDS (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STEEL AND IRON; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (85%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



534 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: THE HEARINGS; 
Credit Agencies Say Enron Dishonesty Misled Them

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
As the Securities and Exchange Commission announced a formal review of credit-rating agencies in the aftermath of Enron's collapse, the rating firms argued today that Enron officials had withheld crucial details about company finances. That dishonesty, the agencies said, played a crucial role in their failure to discern Enron's problems more quickly.
 The major credit-rating agencies -- Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings -- are under attack for what lawmakers in Washington say was their collective failure to detect widespread financial fraud at Enron. 
 None of the firms downgraded Enron to below investment grade until days before the company sought bankruptcy protection on Dec. 2. Today, analysts from the firms told the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee that they had been deceived by Enron and that had the company been truthful, it would have had a lower credit rating all along.
Enron "committed multiple acts of deceit and fraud on Standard & Poor's," said Ronald M. Barone, a managing director at that firm.
Skeptical lawmakers, however, said that more competition in the credit-rating business might be needed and that the rating firms did not use their special government-sanctioned access to financial data to ferret out the problems at Enron.
"Nobody is accusing you of malfeasance," the chairman of the Senate panel, Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, told analysts from the firms. "The question is whether you were aggressive enough in using these powers you have."
S.E.C. officials said their review would examine whether new rules were needed to increase regulatory monitoring of the firms or encourage competition. That could include new procedures for certifying agencies as Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations, a designation that makes the three big firms essentially the only ones that can perform certain bond ratings. Mr. Lieberman said he would await the S.E.C.'s findings before deciding how to proceed with legislation. The rating firms are fighting to avoid any new regulation or legislation that would increase scrutiny of their research or open them to new competition. 
Mr. Barone, elaborating on what he called Enron's untruthfulness, cited a confidential report Enron presented on Jan. 29, 2000, to credit rating analysts that Mr. Barone said was supposed to include information about all of Enron's off-balance-sheet affiliations. But he said the document did not disclose crucial information, like the LJM and Chewco partnerships that are a focus of criminal inquiries and have been cited as central to Enron's collapse. 
The Enron document stated that it was to be used for "concluding that the off-balance-sheet obligations are not material to Enron's consolidated credit analysis," and it said it was a "myth" that "there are massive amounts of debt that is not included in Enron's credit profile." The document's cover page indicated that the presentation was made by Jeffrey McMahon, who then was Enron's treasurer and is now the president.
An Enron spokeswoman, Karen Denne, responded tonight: "The ratings agencies are attempting to deflect attention from their own responsibility by making spurious accusations that they didn't know information that in fact they did know."
She said the LJM partnerships were neither Enron affiliates or obligations and thus did not have to be disclosed to the rating firms. She also said that though Chewco's debts and obligations were not explicitly listed on the document, they were included in the listing of debts carried by an affiliate known as JEDI.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph G. Pellecchia of Fitch Ratings testifying yesterday before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. With him were Ronald M. Barone, left, of Standard & Poor's, and John Diaz of Moody's Investors Service. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); ETHICS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); DEREGULATION (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) ENRON CORP; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; FITCH RATINGS; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (53%) OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; BARONE, RONALD M; PELLECCHIA, RALPH G; DIAZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



535 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: What Price Merger? 

 BODY:
The ferocious six-month struggle between Hewlett-Packard's management and its founding families for the hearts and minds of 900,000 shareholders was unprecedented in many ways. So it should come as no surprise that Tuesday's shareholder vote turned out to be a cliffhanger, more befitting a political race than a corporate proxy contest. 
 It will take weeks to count the votes, but Carleton Fiorina, the chief executive officer brought in three years ago to revitalize the Silicon Valley icon, appears to have won shareholder approval, by the narrowest of margins, for a $21 billion acquisition of Compaq, the computer maker. 
 Now comes the hard part for Ms. Fiorina. Besides overseeing the daunting integration of the two high-tech companies, she must address the dissension within H.-P.'s proud ranks. Most employee shareholders may have voted against the deal, taking their cue from Walter Hewlett, the dissident director who led and underwrote the unusual shareholder revolt against management's plans. 
There is an immediate bold step Ms. Fiorina and her board of directors could take to reduce the acrimony and encourage investor confidence in the combined entity's prospects. That is to abandon any plans of turning the deal's closing into a financial windfall for top executives at H.-P. and Compaq. 
In opposing the deal, Mr. Hewlett rightly protested proposals to grant Ms. Fiorina and Michael Capellas, Compaq's chief executive, who will now become H.-P.'s chief operating officer, as much as a combined $115 million in post-deal compensation. H.-P. has said no such package was approved, and that Mr. Hewlett, a member of the board's compensation committee, is well aware of that fact.
Outrageous executive compensation schemes became the norm during the recent financial bubble. But in the aftermath of the Enron and Global Crossing collapses, when shareholders were wiped out after executives cashed in hundreds of millions, it became apparent that corporate America faces an epidemic of greed that threatens its integrity. Stock options and other incentive packages, once promoted to align managers' interests with those of shareholders, have been distorted to a point where top managers are extravagantly rewarded regardless of their performance.
A huge merger payoff would look like an insurance policy to cover Compaq and H.-P. executives in case their merger does not work out as well as they have promised. Shareholders who backed Ms. Fiorina's vision and approved the merger have no such insurance -- they've put their money where her mouth is. So should she.
As for this merger's merits, there was a grain of truth in the core arguments on both sides. Mr. Hewlett rightly pointed out that selling personal computers, Compaq's bread and butter, is an increasingly low-margin commodity business, and that most past mergers between tech companies have not been successful. For her part, Ms. Fiorina convinced a majority of institutional shareholders that H.-P. could not stand still and stick to its lucrative printing business. In a rapidly changing tech sector, where many once-prosperous businesses have perished, managers may sometimes have to bet the company in an effort to adapt and survive.
Still, in defeat, Mr. Hewlett, who was unfairly dismissed by management as a "musician and an academic," has unexpectedly reawakened a sense of shareholder activism in corporate America. Shareholders elsewhere ought to follow his lead in holding managers and directors accountable, especially on issues like excessive executive compensation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (64%); COMMODITIES TRADING (62%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; EDITORIALS 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%) FIORINA, CARLETON S 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



536 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Global Crossing Under Inquiry Of Panel Today 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
The House Financial Services Committee is scheduled to hold the first Congressional hearing today on fallout from the bankruptcy filing of Global Crossing, whose financial collapse has fueled concerns about accounting practices at some telecommunications companies.
 Global Crossing, which is based in Bermuda but is managed from offices in Madison, N.J., and Beverly Hills, Calif., filed for bankruptcy protection in late January. The company, which says it has more than $22 billion in assets, has been accused of using questionable transactions to inflate its revenue improperly. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission and the F.B.I. are investigating Global Crossing's accounting practices. At the heart of the inquiries are accusations that Global Crossing used its elaborate worldwide fiber optic network to engineer questionable swaps of communications capacity with other carriers.
"Global Crossing's downfall has helped to inhibit capital formation and investor confidence across the telecommunications industry," said Peggy Peterson, a spokeswoman for Representative Michael G. Oxley, the Ohio Republican who heads the House Financial Services Committee.
The hearing is one of a series of meetings by the committee responding to questions raised by the financial collapses of Enron and Global Crossing. John J. Legere, the chief executive of Global Crossing, and Dan Cohrs, its chief financial officer, are scheduled to testify. 
Executives from Qwest Communications of Denver and Cable and Wireless of Britain, two communications companies whose dealings with Global Crossing are part of the S.E.C. investigation, are expected to testify. Also scheduled to testify are an executive from WorldCom, the long-distance carrier whose accounting practices are under S.E.C. investigation, and John Morrissey, a deputy chief accountant at the S.E.C.
A second House panel, the Energy and Commerce Committee, has begun an investigation of Global Crossing, focusing on its accounting practices, executive stock sales and the role of its accounting firm, Arthur Andersen. 
The committee, whose chairman is Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, is asking Global Crossing and its business partners for documents. It is expected to hold its first hearing on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); ETHICS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (76%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%) GLOBAL CROSSING; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); CTL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BERMUDA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



537 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Little Hope for Accord on Canadian Lumber Exports to U.S. 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 20 

 BODY:
Canadian and American officials hold out little hope that a 20-year trade dispute over softwood lumber will soon end, despite a call by leaders of both countries for a settlement by midnight Thursday.
 The hope was to stave off a "final determination" by the United States Department of Commerce on Friday, a statement that is likely to confirm accusations by American sawmills that Canadian lumber is unfairly subsidized and sold in the United States below cost. 
 The Commerce Department will also announce what level of countervailing, or antidumping, duties it intends to impose. These duties could be as high as 32 percent but are likely to be somewhat lower. They will take effect on May 9 if the United States International Trade Commission, an independent federal advisory group, calls them warranted. 
After meeting with Canada's prime minister, Jean Chretien, last week, President Bush said the two sides would be "working overtime" to achieve an agreement before Friday's announcement. Still, a senior American trade official said today, "We've made a lot of progress, but it's enormously complicated and very politically sensitive."
Michael Carliner, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, said today that "it would be a real surprise if there was any announcement of an agreement."
Passions have become inflamed. Michael de Jong, minister of forests for British Columbia, the province that accounts for more than half of the Canadian lumber shipments to the United States, said in a phone interview from Washington that "there is a segment of the United States industry coalition who don't give a damn about anything other than putting money in their pockets."
According to people close to the talks, Canada's lumber-producing provinces are divided among themselves on the terms of a settlement.
Canadian softwood lumber, used mainly in housing, has about a third of the American market and is valued around $6 billion annually.
In August, the Commerce Department imposed a four-month countervailing duty of 19.3 percent. The tariff was intended to offset the benefits of what the department called Canadian sawmill subsidies, like low "stumpage" fees paid to harvest trees in government-owned forests. That tariff was followed in October by a 12.6 percent antidumping duty.
The outcome of the American investigations that determined these duties has raised concerns among Canadian exporters, who fear that new duties would be imposed that would severely damage their business in the United States.
PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated this month that the duties could cost the Canadian forest products industry one billion Canadian dollars a year, with half of that coming from British Columbia producers.
Doman Industries, a big forest products group based in that province, said last week that the "uncertainty surrounding any settlement or interim resolution relating to the softwood lumber tariff trade dispute" had been part of the reason it had been unable to pay the interest on $388 million in debt.
Among the issues still not resolved by the American and Canadian negotiators, according to people who have been briefed on the talks, are the level of a proposed export tax that would be levied on Canadian lumber, pending changes to forestry pricing policies; verification procedures to ensure that provinces institute such changes; and the composition of a binational body to settle disputes.
The Canadian provinces are said to be divided on how much they are willing to compromise on the size of an export tax. "The interest in getting an agreement seems stronger in British Columbia," said Jeffrey Redd, an associate editor at Random Lengths, a trade publication that is based in Eugene, Ore. 
Canada has said that in the absence of a negotiated settlement, it will challenge the American duties under the North American Free Trade Agreement and through the World Trade Organization.
Mr. Carliner of the home builders' group said a permanent duty would mean higher prices for Canadian lumber. But he said the chief consequence of Friday's expected announcement would be to put the Canadians more on the defensive.
Mr. de Jong, the British Columbia minister, agreed that the effects would be broad. "Once these determinations are made and quantified," he said, "we will inhabit a different universe."



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); SAW MILLS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%) WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TREATIES 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); JEAN CHRETIEN (74%) SIMON, BERNARD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (74%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



538 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Losing Faith: Globalization Proves Disappointing 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 20 

 BODY:
The world leaders who have gathered here to discuss how to fight poverty do not always see eye to eye on what works best. But many now agree that the force they once saw as a near panacea -- globalization -- has come up short.
 Globalization, or the fast-paced growth of trade and cross-border investment, has done far less to raise the incomes of the world's poorest people than the leaders had hoped, many officials here say. The vast majority of people living in Africa, Latin America, Central Asia and the Middle East are no better off today than they were in 1989, when the fall of the Berlin Wall allowed capitalism to spread worldwide at a rapid rate. 
 Rather than an unstoppable force for development, globalization now seems more like an economic temptress, promising riches but often not delivering, in the view of many of the leaders at the United Nations conference in this Mexican city, an industrial center. 
"The thing about globalization is that if you blink, you miss it entirely," said Trevor Manuel, South Africa's finance minister. "It's not some kind of permanent phenomenon."
When Mr. Manuel and many other officials from around the world talk about economic integration, they tend to focus on why it has proved disappointing -- why rich countries keep many trade barriers in place, why Wall Street is fickle when it comes to investing in emerging markets, why multinationals ignore even some poor countries that follow the right policies.
"You can subject South Africa's policies to the tests of salt water and fresh water economists, and we will pass those tests," Mr. Manuel said, speaking of his country's attempts to create a vibrant capitalist economy. "But that has not translated into a great flow of investment."
The perception that markets have failed to lift all boats fast and high is behind the sudden support for more foreign aid, as is the recent rockiness in the world economy. The threat that terrorists can take advantage of the poorest places as havens also motivates the increase.
President Bush, who will visit Monterrey beginning Thursday, has promised to increase America's foreign aid spending by 50 percent, to $15 billion by 2006, reversing declines during the so-called decade of globalization. European nations say they will also boost development assistance markedly.
No one predicts a return to the situation that prevailed before 1980, when governments accounted for the bulk of capital flowing from rich countries to poor ones. Foreign aid, at about $50 billion a year, is about a fourth of what companies now invest in developing countries each year, and an even smaller fraction of what developing countries earn from exports.
But even the leaders of industrial nations say their faith in globalization was at least partly misplaced.
President Jacques Chirac of France, speaking to reporters before attending the Monterrey meeting this week, took issue with the slogan "trade not aid," which he said characterized the 1990's view of development. Instead, Mr. Chirac said, industrial countries should spend more on "aid for trade."
"There's no creation of wealth without the necessary infrastructure -- and that infrastructure demands outside aid," Mr. Chirac said.
Mr. Chirac and Lionel Jospin, the prime minister, who is his rival in forthcoming presidential elections, have detailed competing proposals to tax the profits of globalization to provide aid funds.
One of the few officials who still belittles the role of foreign aid is Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who has doubted its effectiveness and extolled the benefits of the market. Speaking in Monterrey today, Mr. O'Neill said all aid doled out last year fell short of what China received in private foreign investment.
"If we are going to have real economic development in the world, most of that will come from capital coming into those countries to create jobs," Mr. O'Neill said. "We are not going to do it with welfare."
Yet Mr. O'Neill's skepticism did not prevent the Bush administration from backing the largest increase in aid in recent history. And some recent studies have found that China is something of an anomaly, one of the only developing countries whose love for the world market has been fully requited.
A World Bank survey released on the eve of the conference shows that after growing furiously through the early 1990's, annual private capital flows to the developing world fell from $300 billion in 1997 to just over half that level last year. Stock and bond markets went into reverse after the 1997 Asian financial crisis, drawing more money out of developing countries than they put in. Corporate foreign investment declined only modestly, but is still below its 1997 peak.
That has left some fallen stars among middle-income countries, like Turkey and Argentina, which are now begging for both private investment and official aid. Those that only tasted the fruits of globalization in the 1990's, like most of Africa and Central Asia, never got a second bite.
Perhaps aside from China, the only country that appears to have benefited unambiguously from the trend toward open markets worldwide is the United States, where a huge inflow of capital has helped allow Americans to spend more than they save, and to import more than they export.
"The trend of globalization is that surplus capital is moving from the periphery countries to the center, which is the United States," said George Soros, the financier and philanthropist who has become a leading critic of globalization.
Mr. Soros came to Monterrey to persuade leaders to back his idea of creating a $27 billion pool that poor countries could use to finance development, especially when private capital flows dry up. He said aid is needed to tame the market.
"The U.S. government view is that markets are always right," Mr. Soros said. "My view is that markets are almost always wrong, and they have to be made right." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); HIJACKING (67%); TERRORISM (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (76%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



539 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Monterrey's Poor Sinking in Rising Economic Tide 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 20 

 BODY:
When President Bush lands here Thursday, the Monterrey he will see is a model city -- "a living example of the entrepreneurial spirit and prosperity possible in developing nations," in the words of his host, President Vicente Fox.
 A business-class bubble surrounds the presidents, ambassadors and foreign ministers here for the United Nations conference on how rich nations can help poor ones with aid and trade. Inside, the diplomats and the advocates of the dispossessed are well dressed, well housed, well fed. 
 If they venture out into the streets they might see what modernity has brought, the benefits of globalization and its discontents. Monterrey has many millionaires. But many, many more people here are dirt poor. They survive on a few dollars a day or less. 
The poorest have come from rural pueblos to live in shantytowns without sewers or streets. They have no hope of sending their children to the city's universities and technical institutes, or of building a better life.
Globalization did not make them poor. But its tide has not lifted their boats. It has been good for many of Mexico's industries, but not that good for the poor. 
Once Monterrey was Comanche and Apache territory, a frontier for Spaniards who settled it in 1596 and the Mexicans who followed. There was no gold, no oil, little water -- only work. 
"It's poor land, and the people who moved here had to work hard, and that's always been on their minds," said Enrique Canales, a businessman, engineer, painter and writer born here in 1936.
Heavy industry arrived here in the 1880's, and it spawned factories that for a century churned out the glass and steel, concrete and beer that made Monterrey rich. "The sons of the rich people wanted a degree from M.I.T., not a hacienda," Mr. Canales said. Engineering was their poetry, and business their secular religion.
They made Monterrey in many ways Mexico's least Mexican metropolis. A two-hour drive from the Texas border, its wealthy suburbs could be in San Diego or Houston, along with its air-conditioned malls, Pizza Huts, McDonalds and KFC outlets. Compared with Mexico City, the streets are safer, the working-class wages higher and the power of big business more visible.
"It's not like the rest of Mexico," Mr. Canales said. "We are what we do, not what we were."
The North American Free Trade Agreement of 1994 helped hundreds of American and Canadian companies open operations here, and some of Monterrey's companies have set up shop in the United States, Germany and China.
Monterrey, with a little more than 3 percent of Mexico's 100 million people, now makes about 6 percent of its exports and 9 percent of its manufactured goods.
For every job being created, two people are trying enter the market. There are lending programs that give microcredits to a relative handful of Monterrey's poor, like Manuel Sandoval Estrada, a father of six who lives in a dirt-floor hovel. He took a tiny loan, bought three horses and two carriages, and collects garbage, salvaging the aluminum, glass and plastic.
That is the kind of uplift that the Monterrey conferees point to proudly.
But with the economic waters receding in Mexico in the last year, both the poor and the striving are taking the conference with a giant grain of salt. Its high-minded goal of halving global poverty by 2015 seems a distant dream.
"This conference is a step backward," said Miguel Angel Valdez, a student of mechanical engineering at the Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon, as he stood outside the security line surrounding the conference, guarded by thousands of soldiers and police officers.
"Ten years from now the differences between rich and poor and going to be greater," he said. "The conference is theater, and the actors are the presidents of the developed countries."
Ten miles north of the summit's center stands the shantytown of Fernando Amilpa, founded 1994, population 18,000. Presidents Bush and Fox will not be visiting it.
The new street lights do not work, running water is scarce and no one has indoor plumbing. Most people here have migrated to Monterrey looking for work but finding little. Nearby stands Diconsa, a federal office intended to give subsidized milk to the poor, famous for the millions stolen from it by Raul Salinas, the brother of the president who signed the Nafta accord.
"This summit -- they say the eyes of the world are on us," said Victor Guzman Hernandez, 39, an electrician by trade, but those eyes will not see what he called "a system that is sick and rotting from within."
"I feel good that my country is participating in such events," he said. "It makes me feel good personally." But the conference, he said, "doesn't reflect on us" in the shantytown.
"Yes, Monterrey is prosperous," Mr. Guzman said, "but only a fraction. We live in the twilight. We live in the Stone Age."
His neighbor, Carmen Chavez Sandival, moved here with her husband four years ago. He works in a hotel restaurant across the street for the global poverty conference's meeting hall.
"If Monterrey were as cosmopolitan as they say, we'd see some of the benefits," she said. "My husband works and he generates taxes, but those taxes never make it to where they should. If they did, we'd be better off."
Was she, too, proud that her city was a host to world leaders, or that her husband might serve an ambassador or a president?
"I don't feel proud," she said. "They're supposed to help countries that have little to eat. They say Africa is the worst off, but it's bad here, too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Torres, 5, plays in a shantytown in Monterrey, Mexico. Despite the city's new prosperity, on display at conference centers like the International Businesses Center, below, poverty remains widespread and extreme. (Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse) Map of Mexico highlighting Monterrey: Mexico's president considers Monterrey a model city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ENGINEERING (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); FAST FOOD (66%); POETRY (64%); WRITERS (64%); TRENDS (64%); RELIGION (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) WEINER, TIM; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%) MEXICO; MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



540 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Republican Budget Passes In Partisan Vote in House 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The House passed a $2.1 trillion Republican budget plan tonight that would grant President Bush all the money he had sought for the campaign against terrorism but result in a deficit next year despite cutting or freezing many other programs.
 The measure was approved on a nearly party line vote of 221 to 209 after an often-bitter debate in which some Republicans suggested that opposing it was tantamount to undermining the war effort and Democrats asserted that it would drive the nation into a fiscal ditch. 
 Republicans portrayed their proposal as a prudent blueprint for dealing with the combination of a war, the need for improved domestic security and the effects of the economic downturn.
"Have you forgotten what happened on Sept. 11?" the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa, asked as he closed the debate on the House floor. 
The budget resolution, which is nonbinding but creates the blueprint for the annual spending bills that Congress will take up later in the year, would increase the Pentagon budget next year by $46.3 billion, or 13.3 percent, and nearly double, to $37.7 billion, the money allocated to domestic security programs. 
But it would hold the increase in nondefense programs to $4.6 billion, or 1.3 percent, not enough to keep up with inflation.
Democrats said they supported the increased spending on the military and domestic security. But they attacked the rest of the plan as a gimmick-laden effort to cover up the fact that the tax cut Mr. Bush pushed through Congress last year had turned surpluses into deficits. 
The Republican budget will "lead to more debt, more deficits, more invasion of the Social Security trust fund, and has no plan for the resolution of those things," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
But given their reluctance to call for reversing the tax cut, Democrats have had a difficult time showing how they would do any better.
Democrats put their plan on the table today in the Senate Budget Committee. It would match the House Republican plan on military and domestic security spending.
But the plan did not include a provision for making permanent the 10-year tax cut that passed last year, totaling nearly $600 billion, and it would provide more money than the Republican budget for education, health care and many other domestic programs. It would also pay off more debt over the next decade than the Republican proposal. 
The Democratic plan, developed by Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, would result in a budget deficit next year of $92 billion, using economic and technical assumptions developed by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. Using the same assumptions, the House Republican plan would have a deficit of $80 billion next year. By the same standards, the budget proposed by President Bush would would have a deficit of $121 billion.
Mr. Conrad's proposal called for Congress to develop a plan to stop using the temporary Social Security surplus to pay for general government operations by 2008. But it put that effort off until next year, suggesting that neither party sees an easy path back to their pledges of recent years to avoid using any of the Social Security surplus for anything other than debt reduction. Mr. Conrad's plan also hinged in part on diverting some of Mr. Bush's request for military spending to debt reduction later in the decade if the money is not needed to battle terrorism.
The debate highlighted the effort by Democrats to focus this fall's elections on Social Security. 
The Democrats' argument is that the Republican budget, by leading the government to spend part of the Social Security surplus for years, is indirectly undermining the retirement system's long-term health. 
The Democratic minority leader in the House, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, plans to announce on Thursday that he will seek to force a vote this year on the three recommendations for overhauling Social Security developed by a commission formed by Mr. Bush.
Although most Democrats oppose the proposals, all of which include provisions to allow workers to invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in the stock market, they said they believe that Republicans will be loath to vote for them as well, because they all include benefit cuts or require huge infusions of new money.
Republicans said Democrats were resorting to scare tactics on Social Security that would backfire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); APPROVALS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KENT CONRAD (59%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); JIM NUSSLE (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



541 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: On the Eve of his Trip to Latin America, Bush Ties U.S. Aid To Reforms 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
President Bush is to leave Thursday morning for a four-day trip to Mexico, Peru and El Salvador, where he will promote trade and counterterrorism as well as initiatives to help immigrants and a proposed $10 billion increase in American foreign aid.
 Mr. Bush will spend the first two days of his trip to Monterrey, Mexico, at a conference on global aid to the poor. 
 He is expected to say definitively that the United States will double its foreign aid budget from $10 billion to $20 billion over three years. He will also reiterate that the increase in aid, which he wants to place in what he has referred to as a "millennium fund," will be contingent on the recipients' undertaking a range of economic, political and social reforms.
"I'm not interested in funding corruption, period," Mr. Bush said in one of four interviews with Latin American journalists at the White House today.
He added: "And if a country thinks they're going to get aid from the United States and they're stealing money, they're not just going to get it out of this millennium fund. And hopefully not out of any fund."
In an address last week, Mr. Bush announced that the United States would increase its foreign aid budget by $5 billion over three years. Development agencies and other countries criticized the figure, arguing that a $5 billion increase from the richest nation in the world was stingy.
Earlier in the day, Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said that the administration had not increased the aid to counter the criticism that was almost certain to be raised in Monterrey.
"This line of thought which just doesn't hold water is that a criticized administration proposed more," he said. "Keep in mind how much criticism the administration has had on other issues internationally."
In Monterrey, Mr. Bush will also meet with President Vincente Fox of Mexico and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada.
Last night, the White House issued a brief statement offering condolences to the victims and their families as the anniversary of incident drew near. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%) THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (93%) LATIN AMERICA; EL SALVADOR; PERU; MEXICO; MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



542 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN FINANCE BILL WINS FINAL APPROVAL IN CONGRESS AND BUSH SAYS HE'LL SIGN IT 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The Senate gave final approval today to an overhaul of the nation's campaign finance law, and President Bush said he would sign it, putting the political system at the cusp of the broadest change in a generation.
 The 60-to-40 Senate vote showed that the effort to limit money in politics had gained support since last year, and the large margin came despite years of bitter combat over the issue. 
 Opponents vowed to shift their battle to the courts. "Today is not the end," said Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who has led the fight against the legislation, saying it infringes on free speech rights. "There is litigation ahead."
He added that "I am consoled by the obvious fact that the courts do not defer to Congress on matters of the Constitution," and pledged that he would soon name an "exciting legal team" stretching across the political spectrum to help him mount his challenge. 
Shortly after the Senate voted, Mr. Bush ended any last ambiguity about where he stood on the bill that had been the signature issue of his main Republican primary opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona.
"The reforms passed today, while flawed in some areas, still improve the current system over all, and I will sign them into law," Mr. Bush said in a statement tonight. He added that the law presented some "legitimate Constitutional questions" but did not comment on the legal challenge threatened by opponents.
The bill will take effect after the November Congressional elections. It would ban the large unlimited contributions to national political parties that are known as soft money and rein in campaign advertisements by outside groups advocating the election or defeat of specific candidates.
The day's action capped a long effort to change the campaign finance system. Senator McCain and Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, first introduced their legislation to limit money in politics in 1995. But time and again the bid to ban soft money died in Senate filibusters or else stalled in the House, facing fierce resistance from Republican leaders. 
The political dynamics began to change after Mr. McCain put the battle against special interests at the center of his surprisingly strong presidential run and as more Democrats were elected to the Senate in 2000, bringing more votes for the bill. 
But the measure gained critical support in recent months, when the collapse of the Enron Corporation put a spotlight on political giving by corporate interests and helped propel it through the House last month, 240 to 189.
The end of the legislative saga was assured today when the Senate voted 68 to 32 to stop debate on the bill, showing that Mr. McCain and Mr. Feingold had more than the requisite 60 votes to cut off a filibuster. Even some opponents of the bill believed it was time to move on and voted to shut off debate. 
And when the final vote came, it showed that two new senators were backing the bill: Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, and John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia. Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, who had supported it last year, voted against it.
In all, 11 Republicans and one independent joined 48 Democrats to support the bill. Two Democrats and 38 Republicans voted against it.
For a few final hours, the two sides fenced over whether the large soft money donations that reached a record of nearly $500 million in the 2000 election tarnished the political system or were a protected right of participation.
"This great center of democracy is truly tainted by money," Senator Feingold said. "Particularly after Sept. 11, all of us in this chamber hope the public will look to the Capitol and to the Senate with reverence and pride, not with derision. Our task here today is to restore some of that pride."
Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, countered by waving a small, red-bound volume of the Constitution and declaring the bill an abridgment of free speech rights and the right to petition the government.
"We are not taking away political influence at all," Mr. Gramm said. "We are redistributing political influence. Who are we taking it away from? We are taking it away from people who are willing and able to use their money to enhance their free speech guaranteed by the Constitution."
The bill is the most ambitious campaign finance measure to pass Congress since Mr. Bush's father vetoed a broader measure in 1992 that included spending limits and would have subsidized campaigns with public financing.
If upheld by the courts, the new legislation will make the most far-ranging changes since 1974 in how the political parties and outside groups participate in campaigns. 
That was when Congress enacted a comprehensive set of contribution and spending limits in response to the Watergate scandal that drove President Richard M. Nixon from office. Two years later the Supreme Court struck down most of the limits on spending as an infringement on free speech but upheld limits on contributions.
At the heart of the bill is the ban on soft money. Such contributions, first allowed by a ruling of the Federal Election Commission in 1978, escalated steadily in the 1990's.
The legislation also places new restrictions on campaign advertisements by groups advocating the election or defeat of specific candidates within 60 days of a general election and 30 days of a primary.
In exchange for the soft money ban, the bill loosens for the first time since 1974 the caps on more strictly regulated contributions known as hard money. The limits on how much an individual can give to a federal candidate would rise to $2,000 an election, from $1,000 now, with subsequent increases for inflation.
The aggregate limit on how much an individual could give to all federal candidates and political parties would rise to $95,000 each two-year election cycle, from $25,000 a year. And state and local parties would be allowed to accept limited soft money donations of up to $10,000 a year per individual for get-out-the-vote drives and voter registration.
Changes in the campaign law affect lawmakers personally, and emotions ran high today. At a victory news conference with an array of supporters, Mr. McCain, usually either ebullient or combative, seemed uncharacteristically subdued.
"It's not often that I'm rendered speechless," he said, "and I'm sure that the affliction will not remain with me very long."
In the Senate chamber, Mr. Gramm momentarily choked up as he thanked Mr. McConnell for being willing to fight so steadfastly against the measure and be "constantly vilified every day in the media because of a position you take."
To the end, senators disagreed sharply about how the measure would change the political system. Mr. McConnell said large donors would simply shift from giving soft money contributions to political parties and give to less accountable outside interest groups that face less stringent disclosure requirements. "We are all now complicit in a dramatic transfer of power," he said.
Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader from South Dakota, said that those who argued that change would make the system worse beg the question, "Is what we have good enough?"
In a reference to Enron, he said, "Is it good enough that half the government has to recuse itself from an investigation of a failed company because it spread so much money to so many people? Is it good enough that in every election the amount of money spent goes up and the number of people voting goes down?"
Supporters and opponents of the bill said there were many reasons why it finally made it to the president after years of gridlock, starting with the fact that the soft money ban was less controversial than earlier, more sweeping calls for public financing and spending limits. "The reformers kept stripping it back," said Mr. McConnell.
The election of 2000 also had its effect, with Mr. McCain's presidential run giving the issue new resonance and the Democrats' gain of five Senate seats adding to the ranks of the bill's supporters. After years of killing the bill in Republican filibusters, the Senate approved it last year 59 to 41.
The effort to pass it in the House initially collapsed in a bitter procedural dispute, and its supporters had to mount a petition drive to resuscitate the legislation. 
When the Enron scandal put a focus on campaign contributions, the supporters got their last needed signatures to force the measure to a vote. And Mr. Bush's refusal to fight the bill made it easier for several dozen Republicans to defy their leaders and vote for the bill. It passed the House last month 240 to 189.
Then the fact that the Democrats controlled the Senate became pivotal. Mr. Daschle insisted on bringing the House version of the bill directly to the Senate floor so it could bypass a House-Senate conference committee and be sent directly to Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Russell D. Feingold talked about the campaign finance bill, joined by his co-sponsor, Senator John McCain, and framed by the House sponsors, Representatives Christopher Shays, left, and Martin T. Meehan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Representatives Martin T. Meehan, left, and Christopher Shays joined Senator Sue Collins yesterday after a preliminary vote indicated the campaign finance legislation, which they supported, would pass. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A34) Chart: "LEDGER -- Doing Away With Soft Money"The legislation passed by the Senate yesterday would prohibit the national parties from raising soft money and would take effect after the November elections. Democrats have relied more on soft money contributions and lag behind Republicans in raising hard money. Main Provisions of the Legislation SOFT MONEYProhibits national political parties from accepting or spending any soft money, the large, unlimited contributions by corporations, unions and individuals. State and local parties can accept up to $10,000 each year per individual for get-out-the-vote and voter-registration efforts in federal elections. HARD MONEYIncreases the total contri-butions individuals can make each two-year election cycle to all federal candidates, political parties and political action committees to a total of $95,000*, from $50,000. Raises the amount individuals may contribute directly to candidates to $2,000* each election, from $1,000. *Would rise with inflation. ISSUE ADVERTISINGProhibits unions, corporations and nonprofit groups from paying for broadcast advertisements if the ads refer to a specific candidate and run within 60 days of a general election or 30 days before a primary. Such ads could be paid for only with regulated hard money through political action committees. Fund-Raising by National Parties DEMOCRATSSOFT MONEY (%): 17%ELECTION CYCLE: '91-'92 SOFT MONEY (%): 26ELECTION CYCLE: '93-'94 SOFT MONEY (%): 36ELECTION CYCLE: '95-'96 SOFT MONEY (%): 37ELECTION CYCLE: '97-'98 SOFT MONEY (%): 47ELECTION CYCLE: '99-'00 SOFT MONEY (%): 54ELECTION CYCLE: '01-'02 REPUBLICANSSOFT MONEY (%): 16%ELECTION CYCLE: '91-'92 SOFT MONEY (%): 18ELECTION CYCLE: '93-'94 SOFT MONEY (%): 25ELECTION CYCLE: '95-'96 SOFT MONEY (%): 32ELECTION CYCLE: '97-'98 SOFT MONEY (%): 35ELECTION CYCLE: '99-'00 SOFT MONEY (%): 43ELECTION CYCLE: '01-'02 Figures also show hard money, measured in millions, used during election cycle.Figures for the 2001-2002 election cycle are through Dec. 31, 2001.(Sources: Federal Election Commission; Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LITIGATION (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (64%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (60%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; ETHICS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (88%); RUSS FEINGOLD (78%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (73%) MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MCCONNELL, MITCH (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



543 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Compaq Shareholders Approve Sale to Hewlett-Packard

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER and STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Compaq Computer said yesterday that its shareholders had overwhelmingly approved its $24 billion purchase by Hewlett-Packard, a day after Hewlett's managers declared a narrow victory in the hotly contested proxy battle.
 The vote by Compaq's shareholders, held in Houston, where Compaq is based, lacked the suspense and theatrics of Hewlett-Packard's shareholders meeting on Tuesday in California. Compaq received a premium for its shares and faced no public challenges to the merger, unlike Hewlett-Packard, one of whose directors, Walter B. Hewlett, had lobbied fiercely against the deal. 
 Carleton S. Fiorina, the chairwoman and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, declared on Tuesday that an unofficial count showed a "slim but sufficient" margin of victory. With an official count not expected for several weeks, Mr. Hewlett contested her claim, calling the results far too close to call. 
A late swing among major institutional investors toward Hewlett-Packard was the basis for the company's declaration that it had won the proxy contest. Indeed, by the close of the shareholders' meeting on Tuesday, 9 of the 12 largest shareholders had voted for the merger, according to advisers to both sides in the proxy contest.
For Hewlett-Packard, the performance among the big shareholders was particularly impressive because two of its largest shareholders were the Packard and Hewlett family foundations, which had declared last year that they opposed Compaq merger. 
Some institutional investors did not totally side with the company, but the support was apparently emphatic enough to give it the edge. For example, Capital Research and Management, the largest shareholder after the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, held more than 69 million shares, or 3.58 percent. 
Capital Research voted roughly 66 million shares for the merger, and 3 million against it, according to a person who had seen the institutional vote tally. There were last-minute vote switchers among large institutions. Deutsche Asset Management, an investment arm of Deutsche Bank, cast its 17 million shares for the merger as the shareholders' meeting was under way.
Some smaller institutions also switched to side with Mr. Hewlett's camp. But the net gain on Tuesday for the management position was about 15 million shares, according to a person close to Hewlett-Packard.
In contrast, investors in Compaq saw clear benefits from the deal, and more than 90 percent of the shareholders who cast ballots were for it, said Michael D. Capellas, the chief executive of Compaq.
Though Compaq said it had won 9 of 10 votes cast, its final tally will not be as lopsided. While Hewlett-Packard requires a simple majority of votes cast to approve the deal, Compaq required a majority of all possible votes. Thirty-two percent of shareholders failed to cast their ballots and will be counted as votes against the deal, bringing the final margin of victory closer to 60 percent. 
Compaq stock fell 32 cents yesterday, to $10.82, in a generally down market; Hewlett-Packard fell 60 cents, to $18.20.
If the Hewlett-Packard results hold up, the deal will bring together a storied Silicon Valley company founded 64 years ago and a Texas computer upstart that last month celebrated its 20th birthday. The combined company, Ms. Fiorina and Mr. Capellas have said, will offer corporate customers a more complete range of hardware, software and computer services, allowing it to compete better with full-service vendors like I.B.M.
Others put the situation more bluntly. "What I think this means for Compaq is an opportunity to survive," said H. Albert Napier, a professor of management and information technology at Rice University in Houston. He added, "I don't think they had any choice."
Last year was among the toughest in Compaq's history. It lost its No. 1 position in personal computers to Dell, laid off 9,500 employees and had a $765 million loss. Hewlett-Packard has cut 6,000 jobs and faces its own competitive troubles, but its flagship printer business helped it remain profitable during the economic downturn.
Led by Mr. Hewlett, opponents of the deal complained of the high price paid for Compaq and said the merger would result in a bloated merger of two mediocre companies that would be difficult to integrate. For some Compaq employees, the acquisition revives lingering bitterness from one of Compaq's own mergers, the $9.6 billion purchase of Digital Equipment in 1998.
"The integration still hasn't finished," said Derek Lee, a Compaq employee and union member who protested outside Hewlett-Packard's meeting on Tuesday. "At some sites, the Digital people do not talk to Compaq people. What's it going to be like at H.P.?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Capellas, chief of Compaq Computer, held a news conference after shareholders backed the company's acquisition by Hewlett-Packard, without the rancor that occurred during Hewlett's proxy fight. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (97%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); BALLOTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); CAPITAL GROUP COS INC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (79%) GAITHER, CHRIS; LOHR, STEVE; CAPELLAS, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002 



544 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY'S ROSE CENTER FOR EARTH AND SPACE, Central Park West at 81st Street. This weekend, the Hayden Planetarium presents "The Search for Life: Are We Alone?," which ponders the question of life beyond Earth. and the Big Bang Theater, featuring narrated visual and audio effects simulating the beginning of the universe. "Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere," with cash bar, music and tapas; this month, the Valerie Capers Ensemble, 5:45 to 8:15 p.m. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (The Rose Center is open on Friday nights until 8:45 for "Starry Nights.") Space shows run every half-hour all day. Suggested admission to the museum, which includes the Rose Center: $10; students and 60+, $7.50; ages 2 to 12, $6; under 2, free. Combined admission to the museum, the Rose Center and the Hayden Planetarium space show: $19; students and 60+, $14; ages 2 to 12, $11.50; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100. Reservations: (212) 769-5200.

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 33 Liberty Street, Lower Manhattan. "Drachmas, Doubloons and Dollars: The History of Money," a major exhibition of currency from the society's permanent collection. Hours: Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 234-3130.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Grand Central Terminal annex (Vanderbilt Avenue side). "Traffic Patterns," an exhibition of prints, artifacts and models that depict the evolution of transportation in the city from 1890 to 1940. Through May 12. On Sunday at 11:45 a.m., "The Brooklyn BMT Lines," a tour of the R, B and N lines; fee, $20 ($15 for museum members). Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Information: (212) 878-0106; tour information, (718) 694-5139.

RECREATION

POWER BAR 20-MILE RUN AND RELAY, Central Park. A race for individuals and teams of two or four members. Begins tomorrow at 9 a.m. at 101st Street and West Park Drive. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fees for individuals: $17; $12 for New York Road Runners Club members; $10 for junior and senior members. Race day registration fees for individuals: $22; $15 for members; $12 for junior and senior members. Advance registration fees for teams: $34, or $24 for members (two-member teams), $68, or $48 for members (four-member teams). Race-day registration fees, $44, or $30 for members (two-member teams), $88, or $60 for members (four-member teams). Information: (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

EVENTS

"ANIMATING 'ICE AGE,' " Directors Guild Theater, 110 West 57th Street, Manhattan. A screening of the animated film "Ice Age," followed by a discussion with its director, Chris Wedge. Tonight at 7. Sponsored by the American Museum of the Moving Image. Tickets, $16, $10 for museum members. Information: (718) 784-4520.

FOURTH IRISH FILM FLEADH, New York University Cantor Center, 38 East Eighth Street, Greenwich Village. Featuring films made last year. Screenings are tonight at 7, and tomorrow and Sunday beginning at 1 p.m. and running into the evening. Films include "Teenage Kicks," by Tom Collins, and "If I Should Fall From Grace," by Sarah Share (tonight at 7); "Last Days in Dublin," by David Caffrey (tomorrow at 3 p.m.); and "Disco Pigs," by Kirsten Sheridan (Sunday at 5:30 p.m.). Admission to afternoon screenings is $7; screenings at 7 p.m. are $15 and include closing party. Sponsored by the Film Fleadh Foundation. Information: (212) 966-3030, ext. 247.

SMALL PRESS BOOK FAIR, Small Press Center, 20 West 44th Street, Manhattan. With readings, literary panels and demonstrations. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 764-7021.

WORLD POETRY DAY, Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church, 85 South Oxford Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Readings by female poets born outside the United States. Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m. Sponsored by Griot Reading Programs. Free. Information: (718) 789-5526.

"PROFESSIONAL WOMEN PHOTOGRAPHERS CELEBRATES THE WOMEN OF NEW YORK," Office of the Manhattan Borough President, Municipal Building, 1 Center Street, 19th floor, Lower Manhattan. An exhibition of work by more than 30 photographers. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., through April 11. Information: (212) 726-8292.

WALKING TOURS

THE MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY will sponsor three tours this weekend focusing on architecture: "Downtown: Nassau Street," meeting today at 11 a.m. at the statue of Benjamin Franklin at Park Row and Spruce Street. "Architecture Without Architects: The Classical Vernacular in Greenwich Village," meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. in front of the Church of St. Luke-in-the-Fields, 487 Hudson Street, West Village. "Downtown I: From Bowling Green to Federal Hall," meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. in front of the Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green, at Broadway. Fees: $12, $10 for members, for today's tour; $15, $12 for members, for the two other tours. Information: (212) 935-3960.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS offers three tours of Lower Manhattan this weekend. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., "Robber Barons, Reactionaries, Reformers, Radicals and Rabble Rousers: Social Action in the East Village"; meeting in front of the Second Avenue Deli, Second Avenue and 10th Street. Sunday at 10 a.m., "Pre-Passover Child Friendly Ramble of the Jewish Lower East Side," and Sunday at 1:30 p.m., "Pre-Passover Jewish Lower East Side Talk and Walk," both meeting in front of the First Romanian-American Synagogue, 89 Rivington Street. Fees, $12 for tomorrow's tours, $7 for the two other tours. Information: (888) 377-4455.

92ND STREET Y. Three Sunday tours. At 11 a.m., "Late for the Sky," a look at skyscraper design in the late 20th century. Also at 11 a.m., "Dumbo: Art Under the Bridge," with studio visits to six artists. At 1 p.m., "Cypress Hills-Highland Park," with a visit to churches, mansions and row houses in Brooklyn. Fees, $20 for the skyscraper and Brooklyn walk, $30 for the "Dumbo" tour. Reservations and meeting places: (212) 415-5500.

"HARLEM: KEYSTONE OF AFRICAN AMERICA." The history, homes, churches and cultural and economic growth of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at City College, Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street, Hamilton Heights. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Information: (212) 242-5762.

"WALK NEW YORK." A walk from the Upper West Side, through Central Park, to Carnegie Hill and beyond. Meets tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the southwest corner of Central Park West and 97th Street. Fee: $15. Sponsored by RunTour. Information: (917) 921-9273.

"TAKE A WALK, NEW YORK!" in Brooklyn from the Gowanus Canal to Sunset Park. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the street-level entrance to the Smith-Ninth Street subway stop on the F or G line. Free. Sponsored by the Neighborhood Open Space Coalition. Information: (212) 379-8339 or www.walkny.org.

"PRE-PASSOVER NOSH AND STROLL," a walking tour past landmarks of the Lower East Side, with stops at shops selling matzoh, pickles and nuts. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street. Fee, $18, $15 for students and 65+. Sponsored by the Eldridge Street Project. Reservations: (212) 978-8800.

RIVERDALE/FIELDSTON, the Bronx. A six-mile walk from Fort Tryon Park in Inwood to the Bronx neighborhoods of Riverdale and Fieldston. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the Fort Washington entrance to Fort Tryon Park. Sponsored by Shorewalkers. Fee, $3. Information: (212) 686-5095.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ATTRACTIONS -- Rose Center's Hayden Planetarium is showing "The Search for Life: Are We Alone?" (American Museum of Natural History) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); RUNNING (89%); COINS & COINAGE (71%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



545 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Jim Brown as Football Legend, Sex Symbol and Husband

BYLINE:  BY STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
"Jim Brown: All American," Spike Lee's sprawling, mostly worshipful documentary biography of this legendary football player, might be described as the portrait of a hero with an Achilles heel. As the movie traces Mr. Brown's athletic exploits, it is impossible not to be awed by the power and grace of one of the greatest natural sportsmen of modern times.
 Because Mr. Brown, who recently turned 66, came of age in the 1950's, an era when college and professional sports were permeated by racism, he was a trailblazing figure who encountered discrimination and rejection at every turn. In order to succeed, he had to be Superman. The cost of that achievement, the movie suggests, was a stony self-reliance and pent-up rage that left him emotionally blocked and made him an absent and inflexible father for his two sons, now grown, one of whom is a recovering drug addict. 
 Although Mr. Brown trained hard throughout his athletic career, it's evident that his amazing gifts were largely God-given. Standing 6 feet 2 and weighing 230 pounds while in high school, he was an unstoppable powerhouse, as gifted in basketball, baseball, track and lacrosse as he was in football. Philosophically inclined, he also brought a keen intelligence to the playing field. And when he speaks in the film, his words are carefully measured and convey a weary gravity.
Mr. Brown credits his self-reliance to having grown up on St. Simons's island, an all-black community off the coast of Georgia where he was raised by his grandmother and where racism did not affect him directly. At the age of 8 he moved to Manhasset, N.Y., where his mother worked as a domestic. It was at Manhasset High School that he became a football star and athletic legend. After attending Syracuse University, he joined the Cleveland Browns, becoming one of the greatest running backs in the history of football.
Structurally, "Jim Brown: All American," which opens today at Film Forum, feels like two films loosely joined at the hip. The first half is a detailed account of Mr. Brown's early life and athletic accomplishments and is filled with testimonials to his prowess by former coaches and teammates. The more provocative and problematic second part of the film is an exploration of Mr. Brown's life after he quit football in 1966, moved to Hollywood and began a full-time movie career.
This part of the film touches on Mr. Brown's status as a black male icon and macho sex symbol whose steamy interracial love scenes with Raquel Welch (in "100 Rifles") and Stella Stevens (in "Slaughter") broke new barriers. As a Hollywood star, Mr. Brown anticipated and helped usher in the blaxploitation genre. And the movie's film clips reveal him to be a confident, if somewhat ominous, screen action hero.
Mr. Brown's private life is also explored. For decades, he has been dogged by numerous accusations of assault from both men and women, and the movie delves into two of those incidents, both involving women. Although the upshot of these investigations is cloudy, there is little doubt that in both cases racist law officers seized the opportunity to prosecute him.
In the most notorious case, in 1968, he was accused of throwing his 22-year-old girlfriend, Eva Marie Bohn-Chinn, off a second-story balcony. Mr. Brown vehemently denied it and the assault charges were eventually dropped. Mr. Brown recounts his side of the story (he says she jumped), while Ms. Bohn-Chinn, who appears in the film, offers a version that's too garbled and ambiguous to make much sense.
In a more recent case, involving his wife, Monique, he was convicted of vandalizing her car three years ago. Earlier this month, Mr. Brown began serving a six-month jail sentence for refusing court-ordered counseling and community service in connection with the incident.
What's obvious is that Mr. Brown has had to confront racism head-on at every turn in his life and that the amount of resentment and fear he stirred up simply by standing up for himself cannot be underestimated. Because of his race and his physical charisma many people expected him to be violent, and some probably encouraged it. How much of that anger he may have internalized is impossible to guess.
Mr. Brown's belief in self-reliance extends to the causes he has championed over the years. In 1957, he was a founder of the Negro Industrial and Economic Union, a black capitalist organization. In the late 1980's he founded Amer-I-Can, an inspirational program for inner-city teenagers begun in Los Angeles that has since spread to other cities.
At its most provocative, the movie explores the masculine mystique and the myth of the black stud. Mr. Brown's thoughtful analysis of white male anxieties about the black male's sexual prowess goes back to slavery and the fear and guilt associated with slave owning.
The filmmaker James Toback, who once shared a house with Mr. Brown and wrote a book about him, reminisces guardedly about a social life overflowing with women. But Mr. Toback claims those hedonistic days were not a reckless wild party in which women were used and discarded.
More than once in the film, Mr. Brown emphasizes the importance of "being a man" but stops short of defining what he means. In the movie's final scene, Mr. Brown attends the arrival of another child, a son, born May 13, 2001. This time, he says, he will be there for his son. 

JIM BROWN
All American

Produced and directed by Spike Lee; director of photography, Ellen Kuras; edited by Mark Fason; music by Terence Blanchard; released by 40 Acres and a Mule. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, South Village. Running time: 130 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Jim Brown, Joe Frazier, Hank Aaron, Karen Brown Ward, Jim N. Brown Jr., Chief Oren Lyons, Ed Walsh, Dr. Walter Beach, Arias Dallas Brown, Oliver Stone, Paul Warfield, Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. and Melvin Van Peebles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Brown, the football star, in Spike Lee's documentary. (David Lee/HBO Sports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FILM (89%); ATHLETES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); LACROSSE (70%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; LEE, SPIKE; BROWN, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

TITLE: JIM BROWN: ALL AMERICAN (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



546 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
A Power to Fascinate, Whatever Her Station

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
OF all the dead white male geniuses floating around in the fabulous ether of art history, few are as sympathetic and compelling, or as familiar, as the Spanish painter and printmaker Francisco Goya y Lucientes (1746-1828). Emerging from his eventful journey from tapestry designer to court painter to tormented visionary is an artist who seems strikingly modern, not only in style but also in consciousness. 
 Goya's prodigious artistic gifts and ego always seem subsumed within a more urgent project that was partly forced on him by events. History was not so much on his side as at his heels: the French Revolution, the occupation of Spain by France, the revolt of the Spanish against the French and, finally, the return of the oppressive Spanish monarchy. 
 These brought unimaginable changes during Goya's lifetime, as well as unspeakable suffering, privation and violence. As he progressed, he became increasingly an intrepid explorer of two limitless realms: the expressive potential of art and the complex, conflicted nature of the human animal. 
This encompassing view of humankind included quite a bit of womankind. In fact, it could be argued that no artist before Goya portrayed women in as many different roles and circumstances, and with as much psychological complexity. This premise is convincingly illuminated by "Goya: Images of Women," an extraordinary exhibition at the National Gallery of Art here. 
From queens to murderers to murder victims, from laundresses and prostitutes to hoary celestinas (procuresses) and witches, Goya depicted women often throughout his career. It undoubtedly helped that he lived in a period when women were becoming more independent and more visible in society. But he also seems to have liked and respected women more than most men of his time did. One of his closest friends, most important patrons and a possible lover was the strong-willed, impossibly beautiful, eccentric Duchess of Alba, whose body may have been the model for Goya's most famous painting, "Naked Maja." 
In addition there was his relentless curiosity: about male and female, rich and poor, young and old, good and bad. It was all part of the mix, as was the deformed race of gnomes, mutants and demons he devised to vent his despair. Occasionally these worlds collided. In one of the "Caprichos" engravings, the Duchess herself is carried aloft by three hurtling goblins, and it is hard to know who is taking whom where, or why.
"Goya: Images of Women" includes 133 works spanning the late 1770's to the mid-1820's; it is almost a retrospective. Organized with the Prado Museum in Madrid, it includes several paintings that have never been on this continent. The exhibition has a tremendous sweep. It begins with Goya's first days in Madrid, as an aspiring young painter from Aragon who was lucky enough to land a position painting tapestry cartoons for the royal workshops.
The tapestry cartoons, which dominate the show's first two galleries, reveal that nearly from the start Goya had a keen grasp of the world's workings and more than an inkling of its tragedies. In some, he perpetuates the lighthearted frivolities of Rococo -- the ladies in rustling silks, the lap dogs, the feathery trees and sunny skies. With their rich but light palettes, these works can be great fun, especially seen side by side, as they often are here, with the resulting tapestries. 
But "The Crockery Vendor" is almost Cecil B. DeMille in its scope, with the full range of society teeming beneath its sparkling sky.
The cloistered park has given way to a market at the edge of town -- the only dog here is curled up on the dirt -- and the air is alive with fleeting vignettes, exchanges and uncertainties. The stacked china on the blanket conjures up abrupt changes in fortunes; the figures in the background suggest a certain chaos; and the rooflines of the city, thrown into silhouette by the sunlight, at first resemble ruins. The precariousness of life is evident.
The tapestry cartoons established Goya's reputation and his career as an ambitious portraitist -- first of Spanish royalty, then of the aristocracy and finally of individuals who were, like him, well-off members of the bourgeoisie, sometimes his friends. 
The cartoons had made him practiced in rendering rich satins and patterned silks (which the weavers often elaborated upon), but female power had so far been mostly metaphorical, as in the cartoon of four women tossing a male manikin on a blanket. The commissions brought him in contact with real women with real power.
They also sharpened his attention -- and his awareness of his sitters' attention -- to the pleasures and codes of Spanish fashion, a micro-battlefield of English, French and nationalist tendencies, changing social mores, economic realities and political stances.
The confluence of many of these forces is exemplified by the costume of the Maja, favored by the Duchess of Alba. Inspired by gypsy dress, its tight waist, trim open jacket and towering mantilla were a way for upper-class and aristocratic women to flout social convention. In addition, especially during the French occupation, Maja garb became a statement of national pride, not unlike the Scottish tartan.
Goya's skills at depicting breath-taking finery is exemplified by his portrait of the Marchioness of Pontejos, which shows her decked out in a confection of ribbons and bows. But the face framed by such finery is grave and assessing, and this gaze is encountered many times throughout the exhibition. It is evident in the 1795 portrait of the gently aging, quietly commanding Marchioness of Villafranca, the Duchess of Alba's mother-in-law, and in the family portrait of the Duke of Osuna and his family, dominated by the duchess holding a letter, an attribute of executive authority.
Not that Goya's aristocratic women were always so dignified. His 1804 portrait of the next, much younger Marchioness of Villafranca, who was an artist and is shown painting her husband, is stiff and doll-like; her husband, visible in the unfinished portrait beside her, is eerily real. Nor did formality always prevail. His immense, cinnamon-colored group portrait "The Family of the Infante Don Luis" centers on the young wife. She is seated, looking sadly out toward us, wearing a housedress while being tended by her hairdresser.
The exhibition also attends to Goya's all-important uncommissioned works, which began with the small "cabinet paintings" of the mid-1790's, when he was recovering from a nearly fatal illness that left him deaf. We sense the liberating effects in a tiny picture of the Duchess of Alba, which shows her from the back (extremely rare for aristocrats) as she playfully torments her old servant, called "la Beata," with a tiny piece of coral meant to ward off witches. 
The cabinet paintings came to cover an increasingly harrowing range of subjects -- the chained inmates of mental asylums, for example. Among the most painful ones here are two set in black caves: one shows a brigand stripping a woman, the other shows her being stabbed after being raped. The cabinet paintings led to a raft of sketchbooks and studies from life (many of the Duchess of Alba). Their influence culminated in the searing, often brutal images of the "Caprichos" and in "The Disasters of War," the portfolios of engravings unpublished until 1863, decades after his Goya's death.
Women populate these famous images as heroines, victims and empty-headed coquettes. They are also villains or simply vilified. One of the most powerful drawings in the show is the ink study titled 'Dream. Of Witches . . . Running an Errand." It shows a naked woman on a broomstick abducting a scrawny, naked old man -- toward sin, or hell, one assumes -- aided by a mob of demons depicted in sharp, scratched lines that fill the sky. In one print, Goya returns to the theme of the women tossing the manikin with the blanket, only now there are several manikins and they are accompanied by a donkey.
The show even includes tiny (very tiny) hints of the haunting "Black Paintings," which Goya painted during his final days in self-imposed exile in France. These come in the form of small images rubbed into ivory covered with carbon, with added touches of watercolor. The technique gives an apparitional transparency to close-up views of a Maja and her celestina, and especially the gaunt, animated faces of a monk talking to an old woman. 
Shakespeare put the complexity of the human psyche on paper, describing a full range of psychological neuroses several centuries before Freud. Rembrandt painted the essential pain of the human condition with a new sense of depth, most emphatically in his self-portraits. Goya did a little bit of both. His sensitivity was not concentrated on himself; it turned outward like a big spotlight on life, all 360 degrees of it. He extended pain to the whole world, and gave it legs -- that is, a sense of plot, of cause and effect, of everyday truth and consequences.
His work teaches that in art the relief of pain, however temporary, lies in form; that oppressive subject matter can be balanced by the mode of depiction. In the small paintings of murder and rape, chevrons of burning white light cut through the black caves, broadcasting a sense of both alarm and warmth that far exceeds their size. Perhaps the most important of Goya's many lessons was that art can mirror the nightmare of life in its imagery, while mitigating it with the liberty and optimism of its very pictorial nature.
Goya's consciousness was in some ways a product of England, the most democratic of the European monarchies, and it is interesting to consider him in conjunction with two other artists whose work bookends his: Hogarth and Turner. Goya replayed Hogarth's sharply tuned farce as tragedy, aided by a sensitivity to the human face and form that would be matched by Turner's uncanny grasp of the nuances of light and atmosphere. Like Turner, Goya found chaos at the furthest extremes of his subject, although nature's force was somehow less terrible than the horrors people unleashed upon one another.

"Goya: Images of Women" remains at the National Gallery of Art, Fourth Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 842-6353, through June 2.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Goya's "Crockery Vendor," left, and "Marchioness of Villafranca Painting Her Husband," top, at the National Gallery in Washington. (Photographs from the National Gallery of Art)(pg. E31); On view in Washington: Above, "Feminine Folly" (circa 1816-19) and, right, "Monk Talking to an Old Woman" (1824-25), from "Goya: Images of Women." (Photographs from the National Gallery of Art)(pg. E39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MURDER (78%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (93%) NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC) 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; GOYA, FRANCISCO DE (1746-1828) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



547 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Rebound Helps Gucci Beat the Pessimistic Expectations 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 21 

 BODY:
There will always be someone who just has to have the latest Gucci handbag or a slinky little number from Yves Saint Laurent -- or so went the message from the company behind those products today, as it reported much better results for 2001 than analysts had expected.
 In theory, the global economic slowdown and the terror attacks of Sept. 11 should have dampened the appetites of even the most ardent followers of fashion. But the company, the Gucci Group, managed to increase its sales and post earnings that handily exceeded forecasts. The company also reported progress in resuscitating Yves Saint Laurent, the battered fashion brand that it bought in 1999 for $1 billion. 
 Gucci did not get through the tough climate of the last six months wholly unscathed; no luxury goods company was immune. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the giant of the field, avoided a loss for the year only through capital gains on the sale of a block of Gucci stock it received in a settlement of a long takeover battle.
Gucci said today that its profits fell to $278.4 million for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31 from $336.7 million the year before. Per-share earnings were $2.74, 13 cents more than the consensus forecast. Revenue grew 1.2 percent, to $2.3 billion.
"People had been prepared for something worse," said Simon Raggett of the Williams de Broe brokerage firm in London. "Rather than making the numbers from profits on investments, it is through the core business."
Domenico De Sole, Gucci's chief executive, spoke cautiously of the company's near-term prospects, warning that it might be a while before business really rebounded. The company expects sales at the core Gucci division to rise modestly in the current year.
"The United States economy is heating up," Mr. De Sole said in an interview. "But for us it will take a little time. Hawaii, for instance, is dependent on Japanese tourism, and that has not come back yet."
In spite of the difficult market environment, the company said, operating margins at the Gucci division widened slightly, and losses at Yves Saint Laurent narrowed.
"It is always a good surprise to see turnarounds exceeding expectations," said Scilla Huang Sun of Clariden Bank in Zurich, which owns some Gucci shares. "Normally it is the opposite."
Yves Saint Laurent lost $67.9 million for the year; the company had forecast a $75 million loss. And the signs remain positive: revenue for Rive Gauche, the ready-to-wear line, rose 218 percent, to 110 million euros ($97 million), in the six weeks ended March 16, in part because of the introduction of accessories like the Mombasa, an African-inspired handbag with a horn handle, for $595.
"We are further ahead than most people thought we would be with YSL," Mr. De Sole said. "It reminds us of Gucci in 1995, when every day sales were doubling."
Mr. De Sole and Tom Ford, the company's creative director, are trying the same formula on Yves Saint Laurent that they used to reinvigorate Gucci. They are cutting loose from unprofitable licensing agreements and setting trends with must-have items like a $1,575 black cotton off-the-shoulder peasant blouse that has been widely copied. If it works, the company's stable of fledgling brands -- including Bottega Veneta, Stella McCartney, Alexander McQueen and Boucheron -- will get the treatment next, a process that will take time and money.
For now, investors seem convinced that Gucci's customers will keep shopping. Its American depository receipts rose 1.8 percent today, to $92.50. "Gucci has proven to be very strong," Ms. Huang Sun said, "even in difficult economic times." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); READY TO WEAR (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (75%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (56%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (96%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: GUCCI GROUP 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (96%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%) SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS; 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



548 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Needs Fixing 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Many Doctors Shun Patients With Medicare" (front page, March 19) exposes a growing threat to our ability to provide quality care for older Americans. Physicians want to care for our nation's elderly, but too many are finding the financial losses unsustainable. 
Physicians face Medicare payment cuts of nearly 20 percent over four years. At the same time, they are dealing with sharp increases in their practice expenses, including skyrocketing liability insurance premiums in many states. 
 At the heart of the problem is a flawed Medicare payment formula that defies logic and ignores economic reality. We strongly support the Medicare Physician Payment Fairness Act, which tackles the immediate Medicare payment cut problem and rejects the flawed formula. This bill has overwhelming bipartisan support. Congress must act now so our nation's elderly can continue to rely on Medicare for the care they need.

TIMOTHY T. FLAHERTY, M.D.
Chairman
American Medical Association
Chicago, March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (54%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%) AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, TIMOTHY T (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



549 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Health and Foreign Aid 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Bush Plans to Raise Foreign Aid and Tie It to Reforms" (news article, March 15): 
 A better understanding of how infectious diseases and poor public health contribute to the instability of economic and social progress will be essential to improving the effectiveness of foreign aid. Therefore, if the United States plans to expand the use of development assistance in the war against terrorism, our foreign policy should reflect better the immense need to address global and regional health crises.

ALAN RILEY
Princeton, N.J., March 20, 2002

The writer is program manager, Princeton Project 55 Tuberculosis Initiative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); BUDGETS (87%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); WRITERS (86%); TUBERCULOSIS (85%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: RILEY, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



550 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Retail Prices Rise 0.2%; Other Indexes Largely Flat 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose in February for a second consecutive month and fewer workers sought unemployment benefits, according to one measure, offering additional evidence that the economy is growing and that higher interest rates are possible. 
 The Consumer Price Index, the most widely watched gauge of inflation, rose 0.2 percent in February, reflecting higher prices for housing, food and clothing, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. 
 Excluding food and energy prices, the Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent, slightly higher than the 0.2 percent economists expected. Energy prices fell 0.8 percent in February after rising 0.9 percent in January. Food prices edged up 0.2 percent after rising 0.3 percent. 
Some companies may want to raise prices and increase profits, but economists said that increases would be restrained by competition, low-price imports and expectations that there would not be much pent-up demand from consumers who have kept buying through the economic slump. 
While the rise in consumer prices was expected and aroused little worry that inflation was becoming a threat, it somewhat increased expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise rates in the months ahead. "My best guess is that the Fed will start to raise rates, but cautiously," said Oscar Gonzalez, economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston.
The Conference Board reported today that another barometer of economic activity, the index of leading economic indicators, held steady in February after four months of gains.
The Conference Board, a private research group based in New York, said the index remained steady at 112.4 after a revised 0.8 percent increase in January. Analysts had forecast a 0.1 percent gain. The index tries to measure where the overall economy is headed in three to six months.
Economists said they were not worried about February's flat performance in light of the gains in previous months. The index rose 0.8 percent in November and 1.3 percent in December. "The economy is recovering but is still fragile," said Mark Zandi of Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.
In still another report, the Labor Department said the number of first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell by 12,000 in the week ended March 16, to a seasonally adjusted 371,000, which was below Wall Street expectations. The four-week moving average of jobless claims, considered a more reliable measure because it irons out weekly fluctuations, edged up to 379,000 from 376,500, but remained under the 400,000 level that some economists regard as recession territory.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Prices"Percent change, month to month. Graph tracking the consumer prices percent change since March 2001. U.S.Index for February 2002: 177.8Percent change from previousMonth: +0.2Year: +1.1* Major Metropolitan Areas Not seasonally adjusted New YorkPercent change from previousMonth: +0.7Year: +2.5 Los AngelesPercent change from previousMonth: +0.7Year: +2.7 ChicagoPercent change from previousMonth: +0.4Year: +0.1 San Francisco+Percent change from previousMonth: +0.4Year: +1.8 Philadelphia+Percent change from previousMonth: +1.2Year: +1.7 Detroit+Percent change from previousMonth: +1.6Year: +1.7 Boston+ (Jan.)Percent change from previousMonth: +0.1Year: +2.1 Dallas+ (Jan.)Percent change from previousMonth: -0.5Year: +2.0 Houston+Percent change from previousMonth: -0.3Year: -1.3 Washington+ (Jan.)Percent change from previousMonth: Unch.Year: +1.8 *Not seasonally adjusted.+Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for February, except as noted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. 600,000 initial jobless claims Graph tracking the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Leading Indicators"Index of 10 indicators designed to lead or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100. Monthly ChangeFeb.: Unch.Jan.: +0.8%Dec.: +1.3 Graph tracking the index of the leading indicators since September 2000. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); FOOD PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); STATISTICS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%) LABOR DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



551 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Universities Report Record In Private Contributions 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
Despite an economic downturn and a choppy stock market, contributions to American colleges and universities rose to a record in the year that ended on June 30, according to a study to be released today by the Rand Corporation Council for Aid to Education.
 Giving to institutions of higher education by foundations, individuals and corporations increased by $1 billion in the year, to $24.2 billion, confounding Rand researchers and others who had worried that philanthropy had slowed sharply. 
 Although the amount was a record in absolute dollar terms, the rate of increase in giving did slow, to 4.3 percent from 13.7 percent a year earlier.
"It wasn't a banner year," said Ann E. Kaplan, the survey director, "but it was still a lot better than it might have been." 
Contributions from foundations accounted for much of the increase, reflecting huge growth in foundation assets over the last four years. Foundation giving to higher education grew 18.1 percent, to $6 billion, according to the survey, which reflects reports from 85 percent of colleges and universities in the United States.
"I expected growth in giving by foundations to be there, but I didn't expect it to be nearly as high as it was," Ms. Kaplan said. "There was so much bad news in the stock market, especially during that fiscal period, with the Standard & Poor's index, the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq all down."
After religious organizations, educational institutions receive the most charity.
Harvard University, which pulled in $683 million in contributions in the last school year, returned to its position as the biggest fund-raiser, pushing Stanford University, the top fund-raiser the previous year, into second place, with $469 million. Columbia University ranked third, raising $359 million.
"Last year was our eighth record year of growth in a row," the president of Columbia, George Rupp, said. 
Nine years ago, when Mr. Rupp arrived, fund-raising brought in $116 million.
A $105 million grant from the Lilly Endowment vaulted Indiana University into first place among public universities, at $301 million. Lilly has a $15.6 billion endowment as of Dec. 31, 2000, the last date for which audited figures are available. 
The donation was the biggest single grant in Lilly history and reflects the robust fortunes of foundations over the last several years. Foundations now account for one-quarter of contributions to higher education and are fast closing the gap with the largest group of donors, alumni.
Alumni contributions were basically flat at $6.83 billion, and donations from individuals who are not alumni fell 4.1 percent, to $5.2 billion. Corporate support grew 4.8 percent, to $4.35 billion.
Before the Indiana grant, Lilly's biggest outlay was $60 million to the United Way of Central Indiana in 1999. It also granted the Hispanic Scholarship Fund $50 million that year, and in 1998, it gave the United Way $50 million. The growing size of the foundation was cited as a big reason for the trend in Lilly's giving.
"Just to give you an idea of what's behind that, in 1996 the asset value was $6.8 billion," a spokeswoman for Lilly, Gretchen Wolfram, said. "In 1997, it was $12.7 billion." 
All those grants were record-setters when given. According the Foundation Center, foundation assets doubled from 1996 to 2000, and because foundations have to donate at least 5 percent of their assets to retain their tax exemptions, giving grew, too. Even though foundation assets have shrunk somewhat because of weakness in the stock market and the economy, the giving continues apace. 
"Typically, as foundation endowments grow, giving will increase, but at a slower pace," said Steven Lawrence, research director at the Foundation Center. "It's only over time that giving catches up to the growth."
Ms. Kaplan cautioned that the line between foundations and individuals was blurring, as more families establish foundations. The council has been asking universities to break out family foundations for four years, and she estimated that 20 percent of the foundation dollars in the last four years came from those sources. 
"This is an important point to make about personal giving over all," she said. "Each year, more and more of it is filtered through organizations such as foundations, charitable gift funds and the like."
Emory University is a case in point. The university, in Atlanta, leaped into the ranks of the top 10 fund-raisers because of a large donation from a family foundation that requested anonymity. The university cannot divulge the sum, but reports have put it at up to $150 million.
Emory raised $298 million in the year, compared to its normal average of $100 million to $125 million.
"We received some remarkable gifts from a number of individuals and foundations," said William H. Fox, an Emory official. "I wish I could say we would do that well every year, but I would be dishonest if I did." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ALUMNI (77%); RANKINGS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RELIGION (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PHILANTHROPY; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (58%) RAND CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



552 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks $27 Billion Emergency Fund 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
The Bush administration asked Congress today for $27 billion in emergency funds to strengthen domestic security, rebuild New York and wage the war on terrorism, including plans to expand that conflict beyond Afghanistan.
 More than half the money, $14 billion, would go to the Pentagon, mostly to pay for military operations in Afghanistan, where the United States has stationed more than 4,000 troops and continues to fly scores of combat air patrols daily. The request indicates the White House does not expect war costs to taper off from their current rate of more than $2 billion a month. 
 President Bush's proposal includes $5.6 billion in aid to New York, fulfilling Mr. Bush's pledge to give the city at least $20 billion to help rebuild from the attack on the World Trade Center. 
The size of the request generated grumbling among Democrats on Capitol Hill who said it would increase the deficit and take money from domestic programs. But it is likely to draw broad support from both parties in Congress.
"My most important job as your president is to protect Americans from any attack," Mr. Bush said today in El Paso as he was traveling to Mexico. "I expect the United States Congress to honor my request for this important reason: any time we put a U.S. soldier into harm's way, we expect that soldier to have the best equipment, the best training, an additional pay raise."
The $14 billion request for the Pentagon, intended to last through the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, comes on top of $17.5 billion allocated to the military late last year for emergency war costs. Between Sept. 11 and Jan. 30, the Pentagon estimates it spent $11.8 billion for waging war in Afghanistan and flying air patrols over American cities.
Most of the $14 billion would go for basic military costs, including fuel, spare parts, ammunition and salaries for the 80,000 National Guard and reserve troops who have been activated since Sept. 11. But the plan also requests more than $150 million to speed up development of experimental weapon systems that performed well in Afghanistan, possibly including unmanned aircraft, Pentagon officials said.
The plan includes $5.2 billion for domestic security programs, most of which would go to the new Transportation Security Administration to improve screening at airports.
It also provides more than $1 billion in aid to countries identified as major allies in the war on terrorism, including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Yemen, Oman and the Philippines. 
The assistance to New York includes $2.7 billion to reimburse the city for overtime costs and cleanup of the World Trade Center site; $1.8 billion to rebuild the subway and PATH lines in Lower Manhattan and $750 million to reconstruct Con Edison and Verizon facilities.
"From what I can tell, the president is living up to his commitment to New York," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who with Gov. George E. Pataki of New York lobbied the White House for the additional money.
Included in the spending request is a provision that would authorize the Pentagon to train Colombian military units in counterterrorism, lifting a Congressional restriction.
American military units are already working with the Colombian government to fight drug trafficking, but the Bush administration contends that there is significant overlap between drug smugglers and antigovernment guerrillas and that training should therefore reflect that problem.
Though it is likely to receive broad bipartisan support, the president's request is sure to be closely scrutinized by Democrats, particularly in the Senate, where the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, has signaled that he intends to question the administration closely over its war-fighting and spending plans. 
Democrats also criticized the administration today for having blocked their efforts last fall to appropriate money for many of the same purposes, especially for domestic security programs, on the grounds that the president, not Congress, should set spending levels for the campaign against terrorism. 
"After Sept. 11, Democrats begged the president to support bipartisan legislation to enact much of this additional security funding immediately," said David J. Sirota, a spokesman for Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee. "Instead, the White House played politics and forced an unnecessary and dangerous delay."
In the House, the spending bill will probably become enmeshed in a separate issue, Mr. Bush's urgent request that Congress raise the legal limit on the national debt. The Treasury Department is already scrambling to avoid breaching the current limit, which is $5.95 trillion. 
But many Republicans in the House are reluctant to vote for an increase in the debt after campaigning on pledges to reduce it. So Republican leaders have signaled that they will attach the debt-level increase to the military spending bill to give their members political cover. 
If Congress gives Mr. Bush the full $27.1 billion he is seeking, it would leave the government with a deficit this year in the range of $70 billion, assuming that most of the $27.1 billion is actually spent by the end of the fiscal year.
But some of the spending could spill over into next year, putting further pressure on the budget deficit. The two parties are already battling over who is to blame for the reappearance of budget deficits. On Wednesday, the House approved a $2.1 trillion Republican budget plan for next year that would yield a deficit of about $80 billion using economic and technical assumptions developed by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
Today the Senate Budget Committee approved, on a 12-to-10 party line vote, a Democratic budget resolution that would result in a $92 billion deficit next year. 
The Democratic plan would meet Mr. Bush's spending requests for the military and domestic security for next year, but would add money for education and health spending while promising to reduce the national debt more over the next decade than the House Republican plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); OVERTIME (73%); CITIES (69%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (60%); AIRLINES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); ED (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) DAO, JAMES; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



553 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Chief Acknowledges 'Debate' on Global Crossing Deals

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
The chief executive of Global Crossing acknowledged to a House panel today that "there is now a debate" as to whether disclosures about some transactions by the company "may in some fashion have misled the market."
 But the company's executives defended their business practices, saying that the deals in question, in which the company swapped fiber optic capacity with other telecommunications companies, did not cause Global Crossing's collapse and were accurately disclosed. The swap deals are a focus of investigations by federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Shares of Global Crossing, one of the largest stock market highfliers in the technology boom years, have dropped from a high of more than $60 two years ago to pennies today. The company sought bankruptcy protection in January, citing the soft economy and a huge debt load. With lawmakers preoccupied with inquiries into Enron, Congress has not focused on Global Crossing until now. But the company faces many of the same accusations as Enron, including charges of improper accounting and the enrichment of executives as other employees lost millions. 
The specific swap transactions at issue are contemporaneous back-and-forth purchases and sales of "indefeasible rights of use" -- ironclad contracts that allow one carrier to use capacity on the other carrier's network for long periods to carry calls, data or video transmissions.
Investigators are examining whether these were honest transactions or sham deals that allowed Global Crossing to inflate its revenue significantly. In written testimony submitted today to the subcommittee on oversight and investigations of the House Financial Services Committee, the company's chief executive, John J. Legere, and its chief financial officer, Dan J. Cohrs, said there were "fewer than two dozen" of these deals in 2000 and 2001.
"Neither these transactions nor our accounting for them have anything to do with the telecommunication industry's -- or our company's -- difficulties," they said.
They acknowledged, however, that "there is now a debate as to whether the disclosures concerning these transactions may in some fashion have misled the market." They noted that the company's board was reviewing the deals with the company's lawyers and auditors, examining in particular "their business justification as well as the manner in which revenue and expenses were recorded and disclosed."
Today, some lawmakers said it appeared that the company's disclosures were improper.
Representative Sue W. Kelly, a New York Republican who is chairwoman of the subcommittee, sharply criticized Global Crossing's use of "pro forma" financial statements, which she said may have "misinformed investors and employees" by "pumping up earnings by nearly 50 percent as a result of controversial swaps activities."
"It appears that swaps are being used as a quick and easy way to inflate earnings and make a company look more profitable than it really is," Ms. Kelly said.
Representative John J. LaFalce of New York, the ranking Democrat on the full committee, said it was not clear whether Global Crossing had "engaged in fraudulent accounting practices." But he said "there are certainly very serious questions as to whether it engaged in practices that had far more to do with meeting analysts' earnings estimates than with economic substance."
The Financial Services Committee called the hearing today as part of its study of what new accounting and financial disclosure laws are needed in the aftermath of the collapse of Enron, and now, Global Crossing. The committee also heard testimony today from senior executives of WorldCom and Qwest Communications International, whose own accounting has come under scrutiny amid the sharp downturn in the telecommunications industry.
Generally, the executives said that accounting concerns were not the primary source of the industry's troubles. Instead, they cited huge overcapacity, softness in the economy and what some suggested was the failure of federal regulators to create a marketplace where competitive telecommunications companies could prosper.
Scrutiny of Global Crossing may now shift to the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Its chairman, Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, is demanding extensive records of the swap contracts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Testifying on Capitol Hill yesterday, John J. Legere, chief executive of Global Crossing, and, to his left, Dan J. Cohrs, chief financial officer. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUDITS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); FIBER OPTICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%) FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) GLOBAL CROSSING 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; LEGERE, JOHN J; COHRS, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



554 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Fed Weighed a Shift in January 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
At its first meeting this year the Federal Reserve decided to leave interest rates unchanged, halting an aggressive string of rate cuts. Members expressed surprise at how strong economic growth appeared to be, according to minutes of the meeting released today. 
 Fed policy makers also discussed shifting their statement of possible future actions to a neutral stance, but made no change because of concerns about disrupting markets. 
 The group of Fed board members and regional bank presidents, which meets eight times a year to set interest rates, voted 10 to 0 at its Jan. 29-30 session to keep rates steady. 
The Federal Open Market Committee cut rates 11 times in 2001, first in a failed effort to prevent a recession and then after Sept. 11 to bolster an economy shaken by the terrorist attacks. While the Fed in December was still concerned about a deepening downturn, policy makers showed more optimism in January, the minutes show. 
"Members commented that the recent information was more positive than they had anticipated and seemed on the whole to indicate that economic activity was bottoming out and a recovery might already be under way," the minutes show. 
The committee supported the decision to leave the federal funds rate, the interest rate that banks charge each other, at a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. 
The minutes did show there was a split about whether the Fed should change the part of its statement indicating what the committee considered the greatest risks facing the economy in the future. 
In the end, the group did not alter the wording of the statement -- that economic weakness rather than the threat of higher inflation posed the greatest risks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



555 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 52 words

HEADLINE: New York Loses Jobs Despite Trend in U.S. 

 BODY:
New York City lost roughly 14,000 private-sector jobs last month, even as the number of jobs rose at the national level. The city's job losses were worse than in January, and hit hard in two areas economists consider bellwethers for the local economy: Wall Street and temporary help agencies.
 Article, Page B1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (85%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (85%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



556 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: More Entreaties in Monterrey for More Aid to the Poor 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 21 

 BODY:
World leaders implored rich nations today to give far more aid to the poor, warning that grinding poverty converts needy countries into incubators for terrorism and chaos.
 "No one in this world can feel comfortable or safe while so many are suffering and deprived," said Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general. He called poverty and inequality the greatest threats to world peace. 
 Doubling development aid to the world's poorest nations and halving global poverty by 2015 are among the aims of the United Nations conference here, where more than 50 presidents and prime ministers have gathered this week. 
The meeting, which ends Friday, has already pushed the United States to promise billions in new aid, reversing its post-cold-war policies. The European Union has pledged billions as well. But their promises would provide no more than one-quarter of the $50 billion a year in new funds Mr. Annan seeks.
The conference has also compelled the leaders of the World Bank, the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund, gathered together for the first time, to address the poor in terms rarely associated with high finance. The W.T.O.'s director, Mike Moore, called global poverty "a time bomb lodged against the heart of liberty."
Above all, Mr. Annan said, the conference would increase and "maintain the pressure on our leaders and politicians" to find more ways to aid 2.5 billion people living on $2 a day or less.
"Two weeks ago no one was even thinking about an increase," said the World Bank's president, James D. Wolfensohn. Today the United States and Europe are "prepared to write checks," he said. "That's not a Hollywood step, that's a real step."
This morning, Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, opened the day's session by calling the world's efforts on behalf of the poor to date "meager, tardy and disheartening."
The president of the United Nations General Assembly, Han Seung Soo, quoting the Mexican poet, Octavio Paz, said the richest nations could no longer afford to be "islands of abundance in an ocean of universal misery." The consequence, he said, would be the poorest nations becoming "the breeding ground for violence."
Then Peru's president, Alejandro Toledo, took the stage. Hours earlier, a car bomb had exploded in front of the United States Embassy in Lima, Peru's capital, killing nine people.
"Poverty conspires against democracy," he said. "Global security is inextricably linked with the health of the world economy," and helping the poor is inseparable from "a strong and determined fight against terrorism."
King Abdullah of Jordan, an important American ally in the Arab world, called poor nations "breeding grounds for conflict" between "Western haves and worldwide have-nots."
The weapons for a "victory over terror," he said, must include financial aid from rich nations.
Mr. Bush has not drawn quite so direct a link between economic suffering and political rage.
"Poverty doesn't cause terrorism," he said last week in announcing that he would increase the foreign aid budget by 50 percent bringing it to $15 billion by 2006.
Mr. Bush arrived here this evening on Air Force One and headed immediately into a 45-minute meeting with Mr. Fox and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada. Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said the leaders talked about border security and trade. Tonight Mr. Bush was attending a reception for heads of state. On Friday he is to deliver a speech on American foreign aid followed in the evening by a news conference with Mr. Fox.
The Bush administration has said, and most of the Monterrey conferees agree, that increased development aid should flow only to deserving nations that will spend the aid wisely. Europe has promised roughly $20 billion in aid spending over the same period. Still, those sums far fall short of what the Monterrey conference says is needed. 
Foreign aid dropped off sharply after the cold war ended. Many governments believed that globalization and the increased flow of capital and trade across international borders had greater benefits than official loans and grants. But the Monterrey conferees, with the exception of a very few, say that trade cannot supplant aid.
Some of the most fierce critics of the wealthy world at their conference today were its own leaders. Guy Verhofstadt, the prime minister of Belgium, said today that "the collective selfishness of the rich world" has contributed to "the despair of hundreds of millions of people -- alone, dispossessed, powerless."
But fiercest of all was Fidel Castro of Cuba, dressed in battle fatigues, whose short but scathing critique of the world powers assembled before him led the American contingent to walk out of the closed conference hall.
"The world economy today is a huge casino," Mr. Castro said, run by the self-appointed "masters of the world," whose "traditional offers of assistance, always scant and often ridiculous, are either inadequate or unfulfilled."
Mr. Castro departed before President Bush's arrival, saying "a special situation created by my participation in this summit obligates me to immediately return" to Cuba. Officials said Mr. Castro may have taken offense at remarks by Mr. Bush's aides, who had said in no uncertain terms this week that the two men would not meet at Monterrey -- publicly, privately or accidentally.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among those meeting in Monterrey yesterday were, left, Secretary General Kofi Annan and James D. Wolfensohn of the World Bank. Mexico's leader, Vicente Fox, right, and his wife, Marta Sahagun, looked on. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TRENDS (69%); WRITERS (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: HAN SEUNG-SOO (50%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%) ;ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); PERU (92%); EUROPE (92%); JORDAN (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



557 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Face A Big Jump In Insurance 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Doctors in the New York area face sharp increases in their medical malpractice insurance costs, which are already among the highest in the country.
 Insurance rate increases, most of them ranging from 10 to 40 percent, are already taking effect in New Jersey and Connecticut. In New York State, a majority of doctors are likely to pay at least 20 percent more in premiums over the next year. Those premiums are already substantial; for obstetricians and neurosurgeons, they can run to more than $100,000 annually. 
 The increases are being driven by larger jury awards and settlements for medical mistakes, as well as by the insurance companies' poor earnings on investments during the weak economy. 
Higher malpractice insurance rates are likely to add to rising health care costs, although managed care has limited doctors' ability to pass along their higher expenses. Beyond that, rising malpractice rates have caused some doctors to quit practicing or to practice medicine defensively, ordering extra tests or choosing procedures that limit their risks. 
"The situation is very ominous," said Gerry Conway, the director of government affairs for the New York State Medical Society. "Increases like this cannot be absorbed by physicians."
In New Jersey, some doctors, especially those with a record of being sued, are struggling to find coverage at any price, as some insurers try to reduce their risk and others pull out of the business entirely.
Costs for doctors in states like Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Mississippi and Florida have been soaring for two or three years, but until now, premiums in New York and neighboring states had been rising only modestly. 
Doctors say they feel trapped. "The medical malpractice insurance companies want more premium while the H.M.O. companies and Medicare are decreasing their payments to doctors," said Dr. Ruth J. Schulze, an obstetrician and gynecologist in Ridgewood, N.J.
Dr. Schulze, who is also the president-elect of the Bergen County Medical Society, said two of the six doctors in her group had quit delivering babies to save on insurance costs.
To renew the coverage for Dr. Schulze's group this year, Zurich Insurance asked for a nearly 90 percent increase in premiums to $382,984. After several weeks of negotiations with two other companies, she said, the group was able to get $2 million in coverage for each of the six doctors for $227,400, a 20 percent increase and $77,400 more than the group pays annually for rent and utilities for its offices.
One factor that may work to keep the rates lower in New York is the gubernatorial race. Gov. George E. Pataki, and many other political figures, would like to avoid raising rates and that might bring angry protests. The problem is that the companies will have a hard time functioning without a rate increase. 
Prices across the country are rising at an annual average of 30 percent, according to the Medical Liability Monitor in Chicago, but some increases are much higher. 
"This is a problem that month by month is getting worse across the whole country," said Richard F. Corlin, the president of the American Medical Association.
The association and the insurers say the crux of the problem is the ballooning cost of awards to victims of medical errors. Between 1995 and 2000, for example, the average jury award jumped more than 70 percent to $3.5 million, and a few claims in 2000 even ran to more than $40 million, according to Jury Verdict Research in Horsham, Pa.
The association and the insurers have begun lobbying Washington and state legislatures for tort reforms to limit awards for pain and suffering to $250,000, a standard adopted in California in the mid-70's that insurers say has helped keep costs there manageable. 
"Everybody is suing doctors because they are not getting absolute positive results every time," said Dr. Sultan Ahamed, the chairman of the Connecticut Medical Insurance Company and a board member of the Connecticut State Medical Society. 
The problem, however, goes far beyond big jury awards. To a large extent, it was created by fierce competition by many insurers for new customers, industry experts said. Driven to keep pace with health care groups that were expanding across the nation in the mid-90's, many of the insurers moved into new territories as well, said James Hurley, an actuary for Tillinghast, an insurance consulting firm. Flush with earlier profits, executives of the companies were also bent on building bigger businesses, said David O. Lewis, an insurance analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey in Atlanta.
To win customers in new territories, the insurers underpriced their rivals, and, as a result, many sold coverage for less than the ultimate cost of claims. Then, as lawsuit costs rose and investment earnings dwindled, the insurers began using reserves of money they had built up during profitable years in the late 1980's and early 1990's, said Blair Sanford, an insurance analyst at Cochran, Caronia Securities in San Francisco. Now those reserves are gone.
The biggest malpractice insurer in New York, the Medical Liability Mutual Insurance Company, and the biggest one in Connecticut, the Connecticut Medical Insurance Company, were both founded by doctors and operate as co-ops with their doctor-owners as shareholders. They have resisted a national trend among similar doctor-founded insurance companies to restructure as public companies and issue stock. Because their doctor-owners were their only shareholders, they were under less pressure to expand in search of greater profits. But even without joining the cost-cutting frenzy, they are now reporting losses.
As losses among the insurers have been growing, several have collapsed or abandoned their customers to save themselves. The biggest commercial insurer in malpractice coverage, for example, the St. Paul Companies, announced late last year that it was getting out of the business, leaving 42,000 doctors around the country to scramble for coverage. 
The biggest insurer of doctors in Pennsylvania, the Phico Group, was taken over by regulators last year, as was the Frontier Insurance company in upstate New York.
Just last month, in New Jersey, the MIIX Group reported losses for 2001 of $157.6 million, which cut its net worth in half. That prompted talks with regulators on a new business plan and a rating downgrade by the A. M. Best Company, the insurance rating agency, to a level below the minimum required by many health care organizations.
Patricia A. Costante, MIIX's chief executive, said that following a plan worked out with regulators, the insurer was pulling out of 21 states and would concentrate on New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Delaware and Maryland. "MIIX is clearly experiencing difficult problems now," she said, "but when you look at the medical malpractice industry as a whole, companies are really struggling to regain their footing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Ruth J. Schulze, president-elect of the Bergen County Medical Society, said that to save on insurance costs, two of the six doctors in her group had quit delivering babies, which is considered a risky procedure. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B8) Chart: "LEDGER: Malpractice Money"Average jury awards in medical malpractice suits. Graph tracking the average jury awards in medical malpractice suits. (Source: Jury Verdict Research Service)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (91%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); CITIES (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ADVICE COLUMNS (62%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INSURANCE; MALPRACTICE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; SURGERY AND SURGEONS 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



558 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Meeting on Indian Point's Fate Draws Overflow Crowd From Both Sides 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, March 21 

 BODY:
In a sign of the growing frustration here, more than 700 people jammed into the Westchester County Center tonight for a public meeting on whether the Indian Point nuclear complex should remain open after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 So many turned out that the meeting room was packed, and the overflow crowd of about 200 was relegated to the lobby downstairs. They clapped and chanted to be let in. 
 The crowd upstairs was generally orderly, but broke into loud boos at times to drown out speakers who took the microphone. Many residents and environmentalists pointed to safety lapses at Indian Point and demanded that it be shut down, while many plant workers and others defended the nuclear operations and rattled off their economic benefits. 
"I want to show support for my livelihood, and for a plant that is vital to the economic vitality of this state," said Stephen McGuire, 39, an engineer at the Indian Point 3 unit.
But Maura Costello, 36, a mother of three in Yorktown, said she had grave concerns not only about the safety of Indian Point but also about whether families could be safely evacuated in case of a disaster. "I don't sleep at night thinking about what could happen," she said.
The meeting was the latest in a series of public events that have been held around the county in recent months to address widespread concerns about the two active nuclear plants (a third is currently not in operation) in Buchanan, about 35 miles north of Midtown Manhattan. But unlike some earlier events, tonight's meeting seemed to be roughly divided between supporters and opponents, with neither side seeming to have the upper hand.
Two committees of the Westchester County Board of Legislators held the meeting to discuss two proposed resolutions. One called for closing and decommissioning Indian Point and, if possible, converting it to natural gas or alternative fuel operation. The other urged an evaluation of Indian Point's emergency plan by an independent group outside the government. The resolutions are expected to be voted on in the next month.
But even if county legislators adopt the more forceful resolution calling for the closing of Indian Point, it would be largely symbolic. Though it would be a first for Westchester, the Rockland County Legislature and many towns and villages in both counties have passed similar resolutions, with little effect.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the federal agency that oversees Indian Point, has approved its operations, though the commission has also given it the highest scrutiny of any nuclear plant in the country because of recent mishaps there.
Michael B. Kaplowitz, the county legislator who proposed the Westchester resolution, said he hoped tonight's hearing would increase pressure on federal officials and others to close the nuclear operations and convert the site to something safer. "When a little snowball starts down the side of a mountain, once it has momentum, it gets bigger and bigger," he said. "I think this is a mainstream, soccer-mom issue now." 
The Entergy Corporation, which owns Indian Point, has maintained that its operations are safe, and plant workers and others have increasingly mobilized to counter what they call "misinformation" that has alarmed the public. 
Jim Steets, a spokesman for Entergy who attended the hearing, said that shutting down the nuclear operations would displace 1,500 plant workers; cut off a source of 2,000 megawatts of electricity, or enough power for two million homes; and result in a sharp rise in electric rates. He said that converting the site to alternative sources of energy like natural gas would be difficult, costly and impractical.
"The support for this resolution comes from people who've always wanted to shut down the plant, and they see Sept. 11 as a way to finally accomplish that," he said.
Mr. Steets added that he did not object to the resolution calling for an independent evaluation of the emergency plan for Indian Point.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neither side seemed to have the upper hand at a meeting in White Plains on the Indian Point nuclear complex. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); FAMILY (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); ATOMIC ENERGY; TERRORISM 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



559 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Italian Terrorists Say They Killed Economist 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: ROME, March 21 

 BODY:
An offshoot of the Red Brigades terror group said today that it was responsible for the shooting death on Tuesday of an Italian economist who was working on bitterly contested changes in Italy's labor laws. The group also said the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States were a model of effective terrorism. 
 A 26-page communique portrayed the slaying of the economist, Marco Biagi, as part of a global struggle against "imperialism." 
 Mr. Biagi, 52, was gunned down Tuesday night outside his home in Bologna by two men on a motorbike. The next day, Italian officials blamed the Red Brigades.
The document claiming responsibility was posted on the Internet.
Regarding the Sept. 11 attacks, the document said the hijackings showed "how it is possible to carry out highly destructive attacks in enemy territory, with destabilizing effects, without the use of technologically advanced weapons."
The communique, signed by the Red Brigades for the Building of the Fighting Communist Party, claimed responsibility for killing Mr. Biagi, a university professor who advocated loosening Italy's labor market, one of the most rigid in Europe. 
In 1999, a group using the same name said it killed Massimo D'Antona, an economist working on labor reform in this country where laws give millions lifetime job security.
The slaying of Mr. Biagi stunned the country, and tens of thousands of people took to the streets on Wednesday to protest political violence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ASSASSINATION (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HIJACKING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); RIOTS (69%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) TERRORISM; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: RED BRIGADES 

PERSON: BIAGI, MARCO 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) ITALY; BOLOGNA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



560 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Switzerland: Watchmaker's Profit Falls 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Olson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Switzerland's largest watchmaker, the Swatch Group, reported a 7.7 percent decline in net profit last year, to $304 million. It was hurt by declining sales in the United States, but said it was pressing ahead with plans to expand its luxury watch brands, including Breguet and Jaquet-Droz, which have continued to sell well despite overall tough economic conditions. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOCK & WATCH MFG (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINE WATCHES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SWATCH GROUP LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SWATCH GROUP 

TICKER: UHRN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (58%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



561 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 The New Economy column in Business Day on March 11, about efforts by British Telecommunications to claim patent rights to the technology underlying hypertext links, which let computer users navigate the Internet by clicking on highlighted text, misstated the nationality of Ted Nelson, the computer scientist credited with coining the term hypertext in 1963. He is a citizen of the United States, not Britain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); PATENTS (87%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (87%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (84%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CORRECTION STORIES; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



562 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Audit Adds to Ovitz's Troubles in Hollywood 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB and ANITA M. BUSCH 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 21 

 BODY:
The film unit of Michael Ovitz's Hollywood management company is facing a potential financial crisis amid growing concerns from a major investor, the Canal Plus Group of France.
 The parent company of Canal Plus, Vivendi Universal, began a routine audit of the film company, the Artists Production Group, in early February that has escalated to a fuller inquiry. At issue is at least $1 million to $2 million allocated for films that may have been used for other expenses. 
 "Money is missing -- the facts are the facts," said one executive engaged in the audit. "We're trying to figure it out." 
The audit of the film division is the latest setback at Mr. Ovitz's firm, the Artists Management Group, which has had a stream of executive departures and has suffered the costly collapse of its television unit.
Jon Vein, the chief operating officer of Artists Management, acknowledged that the audit was being conducted, but said, "Everything was done appropriately and completely above board and in concert with our partner, StudioCanal."
In 2000, Mr. Ovitz's company entered into a three-year venture with the production arm of Canal Plus, StudioCanal, to make 12 to 15 films. No films have been produced under the deal.
Under the agreement, Canal Plus provided $8 million a year to the Artists Production Group, $4 million for development costs and $4 million for overhead.
Development costs would involve acquisitions of properties and payments to screenwriters. The audit was conducted by a financial executive from Vivendi Universal who set up an office inside the Beverly Hills office of Artists Management. Specifically, the executive focused his inquiry on part of the $8 million that was intended to serve as overhead and development costs for the movie division.
The audit came as the future of StudioCanal's American office has come into question. With the merger of USA Networks, run by Barry Diller, and Vivendi Universal three months ago, several executives said that StudioCanal's office could be shut in the United States as the parent company reorganized its many film units. Should the office close, Mr. Ovitz would be forced to find a new investment partner for his film unit. 
Mr. Ovitz, a former talent agent who was once viewed as one of Hollywood's most powerful executives, has had trouble regaining that status since he left his post as president of the Walt Disney Company in 1997 after 14 tempestuous months.
He founded Artists Management in 1999 with two talent managers, Rick Yorn and Julie Silverman-Yorn, hoping to manage entertainers, music stars and athletes, and produce television shows and films. Other than managing stars like Cameron Diaz and Leonardo DiCaprio, Mr. Ovitz's agency has had little to show for its efforts, except the collapse of the television division last year, which led to a $60 million loss, and the shrinkage of its music and sports unit, which led to the departure of several executives. An executive at Artists Management said the company was considering a spinoff of its sports unit. 
The most recent departure was Jill Smoller, a sports manager, who is joining the William Morris Agency next month and taking along several clients, including the tennis players Pete Sampras and Pam Shriver and Rick Fox of the Los Angeles Lakers.
The companies from which Mr. Ovitz unsuccessfully sought financial backing included AT&T and -- before its collapse -- the Enron Corporation, a former executive said. So, it was a success at a crucial moment for Mr. Ovitz when Artists Management forged its film production deal in 2000 with Canal Plus.
Even if Mr. Ovitz loses the French company's financing, which is a possibility, the film company could remain afloat with another partner, like a film studio or another investor. But Mr. Ovitz's previous efforts to lure studios and networks as investors have not succeeded.
Mark Canton, the recently appointed chairman and chief executive of the film unit and a former chairman of Columbia Pictures, said the company had about 20 film projects in various stages of development.
"We are in a uniquely advantageous position," Mr. Canton said, "because of the number of projects we have and the talent we represent. That would make us very attractive for people to want to invest in."
Mr. Canton was brought into the company because of his relationship with actors like Jack Nicholson as well as his experience in the movie business. 
Mr. Canton said the real issue for the Artists Production Group might be the restructuring by Vivendi Universal. He said the management from Vivendi Universal, including Canal Plus and USA Network, had just completed a series of meetings in Deauville, France, to discuss financing strategies for the company and a restructuring. 
Canal Plus declined to comment on its relationship to Mr. Ovitz's company, the audit or whether or not StudioCanal would continue to operate in the United States.
Mr. Vein, the chief operating officer at Artist Management, insisted that the company was not scaling back on its staff, but was actually adding managers. Mr. Ovitz's company has no chief financial officer: the last two have departed. Mr. Vein himself has taken on additional duties that a chief financial officer would normally perform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FILM (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUDITS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); WRITERS (50%) FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: CANAL+ SA (98%); VIVENDI (95%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ARTISTS MANAGEMENT GROUP; ARTISTS PRODUCTION GROUP; CANAL PLUS SA; VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA 

TICKER: AN (PAR) (98%); VIV (PAR) (95%); VIV (BIT) (95%); DIS (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (58%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%) WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BUSCH, ANITA M; OVITZ, MICHAEL; VEIN, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



563 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Falls, but Late Buying in Technology Stems the Loss

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped yesterday as investors tried to lock in profits for a second day, selling on concerns about rising interest rates. But some buying late in the day allowed the technology sector to advance and kept the Dow industrials from a triple-digit loss. 
 Analysts said that while investors think the economy is strengthening, they are worried that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates before business fully improves. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 21.73 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,479.84, a considerable rebound from an earlier loss of 146 points. 
"The bigger picture is that there is recovery in the economy," said Kevin Caron, an associate strategist at Gruntal & Company. "We will see a shift to more positive days than negative days. If the Fed raises rates a point or two it's not going to choke off an expansion." 
The broader market finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 35.96 points, or 2.0 percent, to 1,868.83 after falling 48 points on Wednesday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 1.74 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,153.59. 
Selling was strong early in the session because of worries about higher interest rates; the Fed hinted at the possibility on Tuesday. 
Investors were also down about several disappointing economic reports. The biggest blow, analysts said, was a smaller-than-expected increase in the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's business index, which is considered a harbinger for the national economy. The index's reading for March was 11.4, which still indicates an expansion in business but missed the 18 level that analysts were expecting. 
Still, analysts said some selling was to be expected given the increase in the market in February. 
Shares in General Electric fell yesterday, down $1.35, to $37.45, after a mutual fund manager criticized the GE Capital unit's reliance on short-term debt. The remarks came from William Gross of the Pacific Investment Management Company, which manages the Pimco Total Return fund, the country's largest bond fund.
Blue-chip stocks sensitive to interest rates, including financial and retailing issues, also fell. American Express was off 82 cents, to $41.02, while the electronics retailer Best Buy declined $1.04, to $79.01. 
The chip maker Intel rose 87 cents, to $31.40, recouping some of its $1.19 loss of Wednesday. --------------------

Treasury Prices Increase
By Bloomberg News
Treasuries rose as a government report showed business in the Philadelphia region expanded less than expected, prompting some investors to bet the Federal Reserve may wait until the second half of the year to raise interest rates. 
Investors bought the benchmark 10-year notes, pushing their yield down, as the Federal Reserve's report suggested the recovery may be slower than some anticipated.
By late in the day, the two-year note rose 2/32 , to a price of 9826/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.66 percent from 3.7 percent.
The 10-year note increased 10/32 , to 96 10/32 . Its yield dropped to 5.36 percent, from 5.4 percent. The 30-year bond rose 15/32 , to 94 9/32 . Its yield fell to 5.78 percent, from 5.82 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Revenue bonds: 5.67%General obligation bonds: 5.34% Graph tracking the average yields for revenue bonds and general obligation bonds since November 2001.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); MICROPROCESSORS (65%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (81%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (70%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (70%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); GNE (PAR) (81%); GEC (LSE) (81%); GE (SWX) (81%); GE (NYSE) (81%); AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



564 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Senators Assail Corporate Use Of Bermuda As Tax Shelter 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
Senior senators from both parties used blunt language today to denounce companies that use Bermuda as a mail drop to reduce their American income taxes by tens of millions of dollars, calling them "greedy" and "unpatriotic" tax evaders whose actions could not be tolerated "in a time of war." 
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, and Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the committee's ranking Republican, said they would introduce legislation next month to end the Bermuda tax break. 
 Such legislation would face an uncertain fate in the House, where the Republican leadership is skeptical of many proposals to close loopholes, contending that they may effectively be tax increases.
Companies including Ingersoll-Rand, Accenture, Tyco International and Seagate Technology reorganized to create a nominal headquarters in Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, which have no corporate income taxes, while maintaining their working headquarters in the United States. 
Senator Grassley labeled the Bermuda moves shams and warned executives contemplating such reorganizations that "you should proceed at your own peril." 
Mr. Grassley said that Stanley Works, whose shareholders will vote next month on a Bermuda tax move, and Ingersoll-Rand, which became a nominal Bermuda company in December, have about 300 total contracts as government suppliers.
Holding up a Stanley Works saw, he said anyone thinking about buying Stanley Works tools should consider that the company is "evading U.S. taxes and making profits off the taxes of middle-class Americans who are paying their taxes honestly."
"This is corporate greed," Mr. Grassley added.
Gerard J. Gould, a Stanley Works vice president, said he had not known about the hearing. The company, he said, "feels there is nothing unpatriotic about following existing law and reinvesting the tax savings to grow the company for all of its shareholders."
In a statement, Ingersoll-Rand said, "Our move to Bermuda was approved by our shareholders, was a taxable transaction and is consistent with U.S. laws."
"We believe that upon further analysis, the committee will conclude that aspects of the U.S. tax law drive U.S. companies to change their place of incorporation in order to compete on a level playing field with international peers," it added.
The two senators also criticized Treasury Department tax policy officials, who testified about their plan to combat what they said was growing tax evasion by corporations and wealthy individuals. The senators called the plan late, weak and lacking goals and a timetable by which its effectiveness could be measured.
When Treasury officials said they needed another year of corporate tax returns to analyze the nature of abusive tax avoidance, Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, asserted that he was astonished the "Treasury could be ignorant" of how companies cheat.
Mark Weinberger, the Bush administration's tax policy chief, said the best way to end the Bermuda moves, as well as abusive corporate tax shelters, was to simplify the tax code and make it more compatible with a global economy.
But under current law, he said, the best policy would be to require companies to disclose tax-avoidance deals to the I.R.S., combined with stiffer penalties for hiding abusive transactions.
Mr. Weinberger said that if a tax shelter promoter, its corporate client and the company's tax advisers "feel comfortable entering into a transaction," then they should be equally comfortable telling the I.R.S. about it.
Abusive transactions are "eroding the public's respect for the tax law," he said, adding, "As long as the tax law retains its current complexity, promoters will continue to develop these transactions."
Mr. Weinberger said many promoters were not cooperating with rules that they disclose tax shelters, in some cases carrying them out through separate businesses they shut down as soon as the deals are done so that no one is responsible for complying with existing disclosure requirements.
When Mr. Baucus pressed for a timetable for results in cracking down on abusive transactions, B. John Williams, the Internal Revenue Service's general counsel, said "the problem is we don't know what the universe is" of tax cheats. Mr. Williams said that only 99 of the 100,000 corporations likely to be solicited by tax-shelter promoters had come forward under an amnesty plan to disclose questionable transactions.
Senator Baucus asked for specific measures of Treasury success in stopping tax shelters. "I want a timetable," he said. "A month? Two months?"
When Mr. Weinberger said that fighting tax avoidance never ends, Mr. Baucus responded: "That's a little bit of a weaseling out. We need some accountability here."
The Treasury Department's plan was also criticized by Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who has been a prominent critic of corporate tax abuses. The Treasury, he said today, "confuses modest, common-sense improvements with the comprehensive reform necessary to deter abusive tax shelters."
Mr. Baucus said the Treasury's failure to shut down tax shelters forced "honest companies to consider setting up a shelter of their own to avoid being placed at a competitive disadvantage" to companies that cheat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); APPROVALS (63%) TAXATION; CORPORATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (90%); SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (69%); ACCENTURE PLC (56%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INGERSOLL-RAND CO; ACCENTURE (CO); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD; SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INC; STANLEY WORKS 

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (90%); STX (NASDAQ) (69%); ACN (NYSE) (56%); TYC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (90%); MAX BAUCUS (73%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BAUCUS, MAX (SEN); GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); GOULD, GERARD J; WEINBERGER, MARK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BERMUDA (96%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%) BERMUDA; CAYMAN ISLANDS; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



565 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Jerusalem Bombing Kills 3, Shaking U.S. Peace Effort
A Palestinian suicide bomber killed three Israelis in Jerusalem, prompting Israel to cancel truce talks. The Bush administration added the group that took responsibility, the Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, to its list of terror groups, and officials said it was unlikely that Vice President Dick Cheney would meet with Yasir Arafat next week. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell demanded that Mr. Arafat condemn the bombing publicly both in English and Arabic. A1

Peru Blast Won't Deter Bush
President Bush said that he intended to visit Peru tomorrow despite a car bombing outside the American Embassy on Wednesday that killed 9 Peruvians and injured 30. A3

Italian Terrorists Claim Attack
An offshoot of the Red Brigades said it was responsible for the killing of an Italian economist working on changes to national labor law. A4

U.N. Inspectors See Fast Work
The chief United Nations arms inspector, Hans Blix, has told the Security Council that his inspectors can accomplish their tasks in less than a year once Baghdad allows their return, if the Iraqis cooperate. A9

China Gives American 5 Years
A naturalized American electric-power consultant, Fong Fuming, 67, was declared guilty of bribery and obtaining secret documents. A5

NATION CHALLENGED A12-13

Pakistan to Charge Suspect In Killing of U.S. Journalist
Ahmed Omar Sheikh, a 28-year-old Muslim militant, will be formally charged today with the kidnapping and murder of Daniel Pearl, the prosecutor said. The move is likely to complicate and possibly thwart American efforts to have Mr. Sheikh handed over to the United States. A12

No U.S. Forces to Indonesia
The Bush administration, which has decided to send American soldiers to train antiterrorism forces in the Philippines, Yemen and Georgia, believes it would be "counterproductive" to deploy troops in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, because of concern about anti-American backlash, officials said. A12

Student Faces 9/11 Questions
A Bradley University graduate student from Qatar, arrested last December, may have links through telephone records to three men named by federal official as conspirators in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, according to court documents. A12

Surveillance in Washington
The National Park Service plans to begin round-the-clock closed-circuit video surveillance of public areas at major Washington landmarks. A13

NATIONAL A14-22

U.S. Moves to Loosen Medical Record Privacy
The Bush administration proposed dropping a requirement that doctors and hospitals must obtain a patient's consent before using or disclosing medical information for treatment or reimbursement. A1

U.S.-Mexico Border Accord
The White House announced a border security plan to weed out terrorists and smugglers but speed up legitimate goods and travelers. A18

Legal Team for Soft-Money Law
Kenneth W. Starr, the former independent counsel, and Floyd Abrams, a First Amendment lawyer, will lead the legal challenge to the campaign finance law passed by Congress. A22

Democratic officials said they had received a $7 million check from Haim Saban, who created the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, to use in building a new party headquarters. Such donations will be illegal after Nov. 6. A1

Couple Guilty in Dog Mauling
Marjorie Knoller, 46, and Robert Noel, 60, were convicted in California of all charges in the fatal mauling of a neighbor by their dog, including second-degree murder for Ms. Knoller, who faces 15 years to life in prison. Mr. Noel faces up to four years. A1

Pope Addresses Sex Scandal
Pope John Paul II, in a letter partly devoted to the pedophile scandal, said "a dark shadow of suspicion" had been cast over all priests by "some of our brothers who have betrayed the grace of ordination" and succumbed to evil. A1

Cardinal Edward M. Egan limited discussion of sexual abuse by priests in a private gathering of priests of the New York Archdiocese yesterday, telling them that a letter to parishioners would speak for itself. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

City Jobless Rate Rises While Nationally It Falls
New York City lost about 14,000 private-sector jobs last month, more than in January, and unemployment edged up, to 7.2 percent from 7.1 percent, even as the national rate edged down, to 5.5 percent from 5.6 percent. Two areas that economists consider bellwethers for the local economy -- Wall Street and temporary help agencies -- were hit hardest. B1

2nd G.I. Dies of Wounds
A second soldier died from injuries sustained on Wednesday when two artillery shells fell short in exercises at Ft. Drum, N.Y.; 13 have injuries not considered life-threatening. B1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-42

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Malpractice Premiums Surge
Doctors in the New York area face sharp rises in malpractice insurance costs, already among the highest. Increases, mostly ranging from 20 to 40 percent, are already taking effect in New Jersey and Connecticut. B1

Changes After Transplant Death
Mount Sinai Hospital, responding to criticism over the death of a healthy liver donor, said it would no longer let residents and summer interns work in the transplant ward. B3

EDUCATION

New York Applications Wane
N.Y.U., Columbia and Barnard College have all experienced declines in applications, with some admissions officials blaming Sept. 11 jitters by families uneasy about sending their children to New York City. B6

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B9

Herman E. Talmadge
A former Democratic senator from Georgia who built schools as governor and then called for closing them to halt desegregation, he was 88. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Predatory-Lending Settlement
A home equity lender, First Alliance Mortgage, agreed to pay as much as $60 million in compensation to 18,000 people whom it is accused of deceiving by concealing extremely high fees and escalating interest rates. A1

S.E.C. Chief Fires Back
Harvey L. Pitt lashed out at critics who say the securities regulatory agency's response to the Enron case has been weak and that the accounting industry has more influence in shaping policy than do consumer and investor groups. C1

Anger at Bermuda Tax Loophole
Senators from both parties denounced companies that use Bermuda as a mail drop to reduce their American income taxes by millions of dollars, calling them "greedy" and "unpatriotic" tax evaders whose actions could not be tolerated "in a time of war." C1

Ovitz Unit Expenses Questioned
Artists Production Group, the film unit of Michael Ovitz's Hollywood management company, is facing a potential financial crisis amid growing concerns by a major investor, Canal Plus Group of France. An audit begun last month has raised questions about $1 million to $2 million that was allocated for films but may have been used for other expenses. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Refining military tribunals; the art of banality; high schools that work; subtle racism in medicine.

Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E30
TV Listings E28
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HOMICIDE (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); BRIBERY (65%); MEDICAL RECORDS (65%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (64%); PATIENT CONSENT (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); MURDER (58%); NATIONAL PARKS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (94%); INDONESIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



566 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE MIDEAST; 
JERUSALEM BOMBER KILLS 3 AND SHAKES U.S. PEACE EFFORT

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET with TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Friday, March 22 

 BODY:
A Palestinian suicide bomber killed three Israelis in Jerusalem on Thursday afternoon, prompting Israel to cancel truce talks and jeopardizing the Bush administration's tentative overture to restoring relations with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
 Senior administration officials said it now appeared highly unlikely that Vice President Dick Cheney, just back from the Middle East, would return for a meeting with Mr. Arafat by early next week, as had been hoped. "We're not ruling it out," an official said, "but this doesn't help." 
 In sharp rebuke to Mr. Arafat, the State Department moved to designate Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, the Palestinian militia that claimed responsibility for the bomb attack, as a foreign terrorist organization. 
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, traveling with President Bush aboard Air Force One to El Paso on the way to an economic summit meeting in Mexico, telephoned Mr. Arafat from the plane, demanding a public statement, in person and in English and Arabic, condemning the bombing, officials said.
"It was as tough a message as we've ever sent to Arafat, about the urgency of the situation, what we expect, and frankly, the limits of our ability to help if this keeps up," an official said. "Part of the message was: Look, you control your fate here. Help us to help you. But until you do that, we're not going to be able to help you."
The attack, the second suicide bombing in Israel in two days, returned the antagonists to the brink of all-out conflict. Israeli officials have suggested that if the truce talks break down completely, they will see little alternative to attacking Mr. Arafat's governing Palestinian Authority directly.
But such a surge of violence here would undermine the Bush administration's efforts to build Arab support for a possible strike on Iraq.
In a sign that Mr. Arafat had not exhausted his chances, Israel's leadership indicated early today that it would not strike back immediately in reprisal for the latest attack, which also wounded more than 40 people. The explosion, of a nail-packed bomb, resounded across Jerusalem and spattered blood three stories above King George Street, in a once-bustling shopping district that has been struck repeatedly during the 18-month-old conflict.
In a statement released early this morning by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office, Israel held Mr. Arafat "solely responsible" for the bombing. It said that "Israel will be unable -- for long -- to persist in a unilateral effort" to achieve a cease-fire.
Although a suicide bombing on Wednesday, carried out by the Islamic Jihad, elicited only a tepid rebuke from the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Arafat was clearer on Thursday. After Secretary Powell's call from Air Force One, the Palestinian leader said in a statement: "We strongly condemn this military operation that took place in West Jerusalem today, especially since it was against innocent Israeli civilians. We will take immediate and required steps to put an end to these actions and those who stand behind them."
The Islamic Jihad is not directly linked to the Palestinian Authority, and Palestinian security chiefs argued to Israel and the Bush administration after the Wednesday bombing that they could not control every militant from that organization. 
But Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades is connected to Fatah. Members insist that they respect Mr. Arafat but do not take their orders regarding attacks from him. But Israeli officials say Mr. Arafat controls the organization and has encouraged its violence.
Al Aksa Brigades, a group of loosely affiliated militias most active in the West Bank, has increased the number and deadliness of its attacks against Israeli soldiers and settlers since Jan. 14, when Israel killed a popular Aksa leader in the West Bank city of Tulkarm. As the group has eclipsed Islamic organizations like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, it has rebuilt Fatah's popularity, raising questions about Mr. Arafat's power to restrain it.
The bomber was identified as Muhammad Hashaika, 22, from a village near the West Bank city of Nablus. He had been held for a month recently in a Palestinian prison in Ramallah, on suspicion that he was about to carry out such an attack. But after Israeli ground forces attacked Ramallah this month, he was released, Palestinian officials said.
Israel said that after he was arrested, Mr. Hashaika had admitted under Palestinian interrogation that he intended to blow himself up in an Israeli mall, and that he even turned over the explosive belt he had planned to use.
Officials said Secretary Powell had taken the first step to list Al Aksa on the department's formal roster of some 30 terrorist organizations on Tuesday, and had notified Congress on Wednesday. The designation will become official on its publication in the Federal Register next week. Last week, more than 200 members of Congress wrote Mr. Bush urging that the brigades be added to the list. 
"The designation of the Al Aksa Martyrs' Brigade as a foreign terrorist organization is welcome if long overdue," said Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, the ranking member on the House International Relations Committee. 
An Israeli diplomat in Washington also praised the move, which Israel had long sought in routine and high-level meetings. "It took them a long time to do this, and the reasons are clear," the diplomat said. "There's no clear wall separating Al Aksa and Fatah, and everyone knows that; it's all very fluid. The minute you say Al Aksa is on the list, the question becomes where does it start and where does it stop. This is a direct message to Arafat."
The group is named after the Aksa Mosque in Jerusalem, which has become the rallying point for the revolt, called by the Palestinians the Aksa intifada. 
Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the Bush administration's envoy, has been here for a week, in a renewed bid for a truce after two previous failures. And Israeli officials have been quick to point out that since his arrival, Palestinian militants have killed at least 11 Israelis with at least five suicidal attacks. Security officers say they have stopped several more such attacks. 
But some Palestinian leaders complain that General Zinni is neglecting their political grievances while emphasizing Israelis' demands for an end to violence.
After the suicide bombing on Thursday, Marwan Barghouti, the West Bank leader of Fatah, said, "The mission of General Zinni was expected to fail, because he came in order to impose the Israeli position, ignoring that the Palestinians are under occupation."
Speaking on the Arabic satellite channel Al Jazeera, Mr. Barghouti said that a truce was in the interest only of Mr. Sharon's troubled government, and that continued fighting was the Palestinians' surest path to statehood. 
"We refuse to throw the rope of survival to the government of terror that is sinking in the sea of resistance," he said. "Our resistance is the shortest road to end the occupation."
Under pressure from Arab nations to address the conflict and ease Mr. Arafat's isolation, the Bush administration has made the Palestinian leader's acceptance of a formal truce plan its condition for the proposed meeting next week between him and Mr. Cheney.
The Israeli government has imposed the same requirement as a condition for permitting Mr. Arafat to travel next week to an Arab League summit meeting in Beirut, Lebanon. 
Israeli officials involved in the talks have insisted on strictly addressing security concerns, demanding an immediate and durable cease-fire, while Palestinian officials seek rapid progress to substantive political negotiations over their demands for territory and statehood. "One side wants a more narrow definition, the other wants a political horizon," a diplomat here said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
At least rhetorically, the Bush administration has been seeking to emphasize the political benefits to Palestinians of a cease-fire, but it is not clear if it has sought to offer them anything tangible in the negotiations. General Zinni has been seeking to carry out the so-called Tenet working plan, which both sides agreed upon nine months ago but never put into action. The plan -- named for George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, envisions a series of reciprocal measures to restore the status quo before the current conflict and permit an eventual return to negotiations. 
Under the plan, Mr. Arafat and his security chiefs would be obliged to arrest militants and seize illegal weapons. Israel would be obliged to pull back its forces from what by treaty is Palestinian-controlled territory, to the positions they occupied on Sept. 28, 2000, before the conflict began. 
Palestinian officials argue that the whole process should take about 10 days or two weeks, while Israeli officials are arguing for at least four weeks.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Israeli ambulance workers helped a man who was wounded in a suicide bombing yesterday in Jerusalem. (Reuters)(pg. A1); The police closed an area of central Jerusalem yesterday after a Palestinian suicide bomber detonated his charge, killing three Israelis. (Agence France-Presse); A man screamed for help minutes after an attack by a Palestinian suicide bomber yesterday afternoon in a shopping district of central Jerusalem. The attack was the second suicide bombing in Israel in two days. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); RELIGION (61%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (83%); HEZBOLLAH (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%) AL AKSA MARTYRS BRIGADES; ISLAMIC JIHAD; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%) BENNET, JAMES; PURDUM, TODD S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); HASHAIKA, MUHAMMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (97%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; JERUSALEM; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



567 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: The Middle East's Failed Leaders 

BYLINE:  By Anthony H. Cordesman; Anthony H. Cordesman, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, is author of "Peace and War: The Arab-Israel Military Balance Enters the 21st Century."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney's visit to the Middle East has made it even more obvious that forging an Israeli-Palestinian peace is a vital American strategic priority. We cannot serve any of our other interests in this region, which has nearly 70 percent of the world's proved oil reserves, unless we are seen to do everything possible to win a just peace. We cannot take action against Iraq with the regional support we need, roll back proliferation of nuclear weapons or even sustain our military presence.
 In fact, growing regional anger at the Bush administration's perceived failure to strongly support the peace process threatens our victory in Afghanistan and our ability to win the war on terrorism. 
We will need both a lasting cease-fire and a real peace if we are to protect our strategic interests. To forge such a peace, however, we are going to have to be far more realistic about the role each side has played in creating and escalating the conflict.
Yasir Arafat does deserve much of the blame. If he had responded positively to the opportunities offered him during the negotiations sponsored by President Bill Clinton at Camp David in 2000 and had made a clear and public commitment to the proposals made at Taba, Egypt, in January, 2001, we might already have an agreement on a just peace. Unfortunately, Mr. Arafat, if he did not exactly choose violence, has accepted and used it. Ever since the second intifada began in September 2000, he has never truly led in seeking a meaningful cease-fire. He has reacted only opportunistically.
That said, Mr. Arafat is only one of three failed leaders who must shoulder blame. The second is Benjamin Netanyahu. His effort to block progress toward fulfilling the Oslo Accords -- his tactic of renegotiating by delay and obstruction -- fueled Palestinian anger and hopelessness even before the start of the second intifada. He wasted the two most precious commodities in moving toward peace: hope and time.
The third failed leader is Ariel Sharon, who may be a tactical genius but has always been a failure at strategy. He has never known when to stop or how to set realistic political and strategic goals. He dragged Israel into a war in Lebanon that it lost after nearly two decades but that led immediately to major acts of terrorism on both sides, with many civilian deaths.
In the current violence, Mr. Sharon's demand, only recently withdrawn, for an impossible Palestinian effort to halt all violence as a precondition for a cease-fire, his willingness to escalate without meaningful strategic and tactical purpose, his carelessness in using violence in areas where civilians are present and his talk of forced separation and occupation all mirror Mr. Arafat's own narrow opportunism.
No one can condone the loss of a single civilian life on either side, but we need to realize that the situation has essentially become asymmetric warfare rather than Palestinian terrorism and Israeli counterterrorism. Each side has escalated the violence using the methods available to it. For the Palestinians, this is suicide bombing and smuggled arms. For Israel, it is tanks and attack helicopters. In both cases, civilians die, hatreds grow and the level and sophistication of the fighting increases.
Facing these realities goes against the grain of American domestic politics and against an international climate in which the United States takes the side of Israel while Europe and Arab moderates back the Palestinians. This dynamic has to change if America is to have an effective role in brokering a peace. 
It seems clear now that any move toward a cease-fire and peace settlement will have to be politically imposed from the outside on two sets of failed leaders and the influential people who support them at home. The Israel of Mr. Sharon and Mr. Netanyahu is not the peacemaking Israel of Yitzhak Rabin and Ehud Barak. The United States must openly and constantly condemn every intensification of the conflict by either side when civilians die.
Exhortation, of course, is not enough. America must define a detailed peace settlement and push for it in the face of Israeli and Palestinian political opposition.
The United States must seek international support in putting political and financial pressure on both sides. Israel depends on the United States for billions of dollars' worth of military and economic aid each year. The Palestinian Authority is dependent on hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of American, European and Arab aid and has no hope of ever building a viable national economy without even more. This aid could be used as leverage to push both sides to end the attacks and return to negotiations.
An effective peace effort may also require supporting the deployment of international observers and peacekeepers to enforce a cease-fire and a peace. But first the United States must separate its firm commitment to Israel's security from any commitment to the failed policies of Israel's leaders -- just as it must separate its condemnation of Mr. Arafat from a commitment to justice for Palestinians. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); ARMED FORCES (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); DICK CHENEY (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%) CORDESMAN, ANTHONY H; ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



568 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Reeling From Blast, Peru Prepares for a Visit From Bush 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, March 21 

 BODY:
Dark memories of terror came alive in Peru today after a huge car bomb exploded outside the United States Embassy late Wednesday, killing nine Peruvians, wounding 30 other people and marring an upbeat atmosphere on the eve of President Bush's visit to the country.
 Mr. Bush, speaking this morning at the White House, told reporters that he had not changed his plans to come here on Saturday for a meeting on trade and security issues with President Alejandro Toledo and the leaders of three other Andean countries. 
 "No two-bit terrorists are going to prevent me from doing what we need to do, and that is to promote our friendship in the hemisphere," said Mr. Bush, who would be the first American president to visit Peru while in office. "You bet I'm going," he said. 
However, the bombing outside a hotel and a string of shops across the street from the embassy has sharpened security concerns around Mr. Bush's visit and cast a cloud over this nation of 24 million people, which thought it had put away the bombings and assassinations that marked its turbulent past. 
No one claimed responsibility, but government officials and political analysts said the bombing could be the work of the Shining Path, a Maoist rebel organization that carried out a string of urban terror attacks in the 1990's before being decimated by state security forces.
"We were supposed to have seen the last of this," said Victor Delgado, 30, a tourist agency worker, as he watched crews clear away the glass and rubble at the scene of the bombing this morning. "This is the kind of barbarism we lived with for so many years."
Mr. Toledo, speaking to reporters in Monterrey, Mexico, where Mr. Bush and the hemisphere's other leaders convened today for a United Nations development summit, said his government would "not yield even a centimeter to terrorism."
Mr. Toledo cut short his Mexico trip to return home today. "The courageous Peruvian people will not allow terrorism to return to Peru," he said before leaving Monterrey.
He added: "We will apply one heavy hand, and with the other, the law. We will apply all the necessary firmness and all the weight of the law."
Meanwhile, security in Lima was heightened as grim-faced government officials insisted that the city was safe.
Authorities placed the police on a "red alert" as the historic heart of the city was sealed off, the vendors and smoke-belching buses replaced by light armored vehicles and security forces. Mr. Bush, who is scheduled to arrive from Mexico on Saturday afternoon, is to meet with Mr. Toledo and the presidents of Colombia, Ecuador and Bolivia in the national palace, which faces the normally crowded Plaza de Armas.
Authorities are also moving forward with security plans developed before the bombing, deploying 7,000 police officers to guard main avenues and banning flights over Lima during Mr. Bush's stay.
"Security efforts have been redoubled in various places in the city," said Fernando Rospigliosi, the interior minister. "We will not drop our guard."
In El Salvador, where Mr. Bush will travel on Sunday morning, security had already been heightened before the bombing in Peru. Almost 1,700 police officers and 4,000 soldiers were assigned to presidential security, with another 7,000 police officers on alert. 
Salvadoran officials emphasized today that their political situation could not be compared to that of Peru. A decade after peace accords ended the civil war, the former combatants have devoted themselves to political rather than armed struggle.
In Peru, many people were unnerved today by all the talk of terrorism and the new, albeit temporary, security restrictions. Their uneasiness was not surprising in a country that lived through a brutal conflict that claimed 30,000 lives from 1980 through the late 1990's.
"It is hard to overstate how Peru was torn apart and traumatized by Shining Path," said Michael Shifter, a senior fellow who follows Peru for the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy analysis group based in Washington. "Precisely for that reason, Peruvians are perhaps more sympathetic than other Latin Americans to the U.S.-led campaign against terrorism."
Some Peruvians said the bombings heightened their concern about Mr. Toledo's government, which has plummeted in popularity because of a sluggish economy and a perception that the president lacks decisiveness.
"He does not have the capacity to deal with this," said Mariano Torres, 40, an accountant. "Sadly, I see him as just a president of words, and this shows it."
The attack took place at 10:50 p.m. on Wednesday when the bomb, which weighed more than 100 pounds, was detonated next to the Best Western Polo Hotel, just 150 feet from the 20-foot, drab-gray walls surrounding the fortresslike United States Embassy. Bodies were thrown about, with one man, his leg missing, landing more than 160 feet away. Windows were shattered and parked cars were reduced to charred heaps.
"I feel so indignant seeing this, " said Beatrice Ibanez, 28, as she watched cleanup crews today. "I'm scared because now we do not know what is going to happen. There is all this uncertainty."
Since Mr. Bush's visit was announced last month, many Peruvians had been eagerly looking forward to it as a sign of Washington's interest in Mr. Toledo's efforts to create a more stable, democratic government for Peru. 
Analysts here said the bombing could have been carried out by a new radical group, by Colombian guerrillas or even by people tied to the former president Alberto Fujimori and his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. A wide-ranging corruption scandal prompted Mr. Fujimori to flee Peru for Japan, his ancestral homeland, while Mr. Montesinos was jailed, leading to the election of the reform-minded Mr. Toledo last year.
But Dennis Jett, the American ambassador to Peru from 1996 to 1999, said, "If you sort of rounded up the usual suspects, Shining Path would be at the top of the list. 
"They are trying to send a message," Mr. Jett said, "that this is our welcome message for Mr. Bush, perhaps trying to recall the image of the chaotic situation of the past."
However, jailed rebels from Shining Path, which waged war against Peruvian governments in the 1980's and 1990's, told reporters by telephone today that their group was not responsible.
"We are not in accordance," said a rebel leader, identified as Commander Hugo. "This does not serve a purpose. All it does is create hate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Relatives of people killed by the car bomb in Lima, top, gathered yesterday at the scene. Store owners, left, carried belongings past cars damaged in the explosion. (Paco Sanseviero/Reuters); (Associated Press) Map of Peru highlighting site of explosion: The bomb was detonated across the street from the U.S. Embassy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); POLITICS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); CIVIL WAR (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (82%) SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) FORERO, JUAN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%); ECUADOR (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) PERU; LIMA (PERU)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



569 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: City Is Losing Jobs Despite Signs of a Rebound on the National Level 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
The co-op market is heating up, the stock market is picking up, and Alan Greenspan's mood is perking up. So the recession must be over, right?
 Not so fast, New York. The most crucial measure of economic growth is the number of jobs, which has started rising nationally -- but not here. 
 In fact, New York City lost roughly 14,000 private-sector jobs last month, according to a new report from William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, even as the number of jobs rose at the national level. The city's job losses were worse than in January, and hit hard in two areas economists consider bellwethers for the local economy: Wall Street and temporary help agencies.
The unemployment rate in the city edged up, to 7.2 percent from 7.1 percent, even as the national rate edged down, to 5.5 percent from 5.6 percent, according to data released yesterday by the New York State Department of Labor. The unemployment rate in New Jersey also rose, to 5.2 percent from 4.9 percent, as the number of jobs fell by 4,600 after seasonal adjustment.
The numbers did not exactly surprise many students of the city's economy, but they did disappoint them. "Everybody had themselves thinking that there would be a visible improvement in February," said James P. Brown, an analyst at the State Labor Department.
But no. The private-sector job losses, which exclude gains in government hiring, were the largest since October, according to the comptroller's office, which adjusts state data for seasonal factors. 
To be sure, the regional economic situation is not as dire as many people, economists or not, expected a few months ago. Predictions that the city would fare as badly as it did in the early 1990's or the 1970's -- when hundreds of thousands of jobs disappeared and unemployment routinely ran in the double digits -- have not come true.
And there are some signs of improvement. Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve have continually cut interest rates, which have given a boost to housing in New York and across the country. Tourism has also picked up, in part because of special incentive packages and advertising, but foreign tourists, who spend far more than domestic visitors, have not returned to the city in large numbers.
The number of people filing initial claims for unemployment insurance in the last month is about 17 percent higher than in the same stretch a year ago but far below the almost 100 percent increases that occurred late last year. And some tax receipts are coming in a little higher than forecasted.
But for any economy, "the best arbiter is jobs, and the New York economy is still losing jobs," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist for Economy.com, which specializes in regional analysis. "It's fair to say that its worst economic days are behind it, but the city is still struggling."
The parts of the country where the economy is rebounding are those with a lot of manufacturing, particularly car making, he said. Many of those areas went into recession in late 2000, whereas New York did not start declining until last spring. "First in, first out," Mr. Zandi said.
Manufacturing tends to be more sensitive to economic trends than services, economists say, especially now that companies do not build up big inventories of unsold products. If a gadget company cannot sell gadgets, it lays off gadget makers. Once the warehouses are empty and sales improve, the company will call employees back to work. But it probably will not spend money on things like advertising or travel until profits pick up.
And advertising, travel, consulting, accounting and financial services of all stripes are New York City's specialties. Wall Street, in particular, is an important driver of the city's economy.
Though the stock market has been moving mostly upward in the last two months, securities firms are not expecting a banner year, and employment at the firms, already down by more than 16,000 in the last 12 months, is likely to fall further.
In February alone, Wall Street shed 2,300 jobs, according to the comptroller's office. Business services, which includes advertising and temporary agencies and computer consultants, lost 4,800 positions. Legal services also declined slightly.
Of course, New York is experiencing economic problems that the rest of the country is not for reasons no one who lived through Sept. 11 will forget. Small businesses near the World Trade Center closed, many for good; garment factories in Chinatown closed, many for good; restaurants and limousine services and the like lost months of income and many valued customers.
Some Wall Street firms moved to New Jersey or Connecticut, and only a small proportion of them have come back, at least so far. More ominously, brokerage houses and investment banks are increasingly convinced that they must spread out their employees, making it more likely that firms will move more employees from Manhattan, industry experts say.
Several economists suggested that New York City's job picture would depend in part on how successful the state and local government were in creating incentives for businesses to stay in the city or even to relocate here. "Employers are probably waiting until there is more certainty about the status of Lower Manhattan, especially in terms of the incentives," said Barbara Byrne Denham, economist for The New York Stat, a newsletter analyzing the city economy. "This uncertainty is weighing down the economy."
Even so, it seems likely that the pickup in the national economy will give a boost to the city's later this year, said Rae Rosen, senior economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. She predicts that the city's job count may begin to improve in the second half of the year. By the end of 2003, she said, the city may even have recovered all the 100,000 or so jobs it has lost.
But in the short run, she said, "a good sign would be if the rate of decrease lessened."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Losing Work"New York city has been losing jobs faster than the nation as a whole. Job growthMonthly percentage change, year-over-year Graph tracking the monthly percentage change in job growth for New York City and the United States. (Sources: New York City Comptroller; New York State and U.S. Departments of Labor)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) EATON, LESLIE; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



570 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Raises $4 Billion In Travelers Stock Offering 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Taking advantage of a likely boom in profits at commercial insurance companies, Citigroup sold 21 percent of its Travelers Insurance unit yesterday in the largest initial public offering this year.
 The sale of 210 million shares at $18.50 raised $3.89 billion, making it the biggest initial public offering of an insurance company and the seventh largest among all industries. 
 Investors reacted with enthusiasm to an opportunity to invest in an established company with a strong earnings record.
"People are buying a winning franchise, and the timing is certainly right,' said Randall Roth, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, a research and investing firm in Greenwich, Conn., that specializes in initial public offerings. 
Just last week, people close to General Electric said it was considering selling its commercial insurance company, the Employers Reinsurance Company, partly because the insurance market is so ebullient. After suffering estimated losses of $50 billion in the September terrorist attacks, insurers have been rebounding, doubling or even tripling their prices for many lines of coverage.
Some investors said they hesitated to buy Travelers stock because Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's chief executive, is regarded as such an astute buyer and seller of companies. If Mr. Weill was selling, the thinking has been, would you want to be the buyer? But the performance of Travelers appeared yesterday to overcome most doubts.
Analysts said that while selling an insurer in the current climate would mean giving up substantial earnings from the higher insurance prices, it would be more profitable to sell now than wait until the market peaked.
Mr. Weill has said that he expects to make Travelers completely independent by the end of the year, by giving most of the rest of the insurance company to Citigroup shareholders. Citigroup would continue to hold about a 9 percent stake. 
Analysts said that Citigroup got a good price for its Travelers stock, but that the shares seemed to have plenty of room to grow. Citigroup initially offered the stock in a range of $16 to $19, but in the last few days the minimum was raised to $17.50, suggesting heavy demand.
The price of $18.50 a share was nearly twice the book value of Travelers -- about the same ratio as the Chubb Group, one of the most highly regarded commercial insurers. But Harry Radovich, an analyst for Merrill Lynch's Basic Value Fund, said that considering its strong history of earnings growth, Travelers was priced at a slight discount to its peers. "This company," he said, "has the potential to be a premier insurance holding."
Travelers was the 14th initial public offering this year in a markedly subdued atmosphere that contrasts sharply with the Internet mania. In 1999, there were 486 initial public offerings, many of them involving young companies with little or no earnings. This year, analysts say, there may be no more than 60 or 70 initial public offerings unless the economy picks up sharply.
Mr. Roth of Renaissance Capital said the new-issues market had turned decidedly deliberate. Almost all of the companies brought to market this year, he said, have been like Travelers: older companies with strong performances.
"These are not fly-by-night enterprises," he said. 
With a total market value of about $20 billion, Travelers becomes one of the most valuable commercial insurers and a likely candidate for eventual inclusion in the Standard & Poor's index of the 500 largest companies.
Mr. Weill said he was selling Travelers in part because, even as a stellar insurance company, its profitability was lower than that of other businesses in his financial conglomerate, like banks and brokerage firms. The lower earnings have been a drag on Citigroup's price-to-earnings ratio, which analysts say Mr. Weill seems obsessed with raising.
Another reason for selling, analysts said, is that the earnings of property and casualty insurers is inherently volatile, while Mr. Weill's goal is steady, high returns.
Marc Baum, the chief executive of the IPO Group, which follows initial public offerings, suggested that the insurance losses in the September attacks may have badly shaken Mr. Weill and the G.E. executives. Unlike career insurance executives, he said, they may want to make sure their future operations are more predictable.
"You have to wonder," he said, "if after Sept. 11 these people are thinking about what might come next as an even bigger risk." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); EXECUTIVES (52%) INSURANCE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); CHUBB CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO; CITIGROUP INC 

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); CB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC6331 FIRE; SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (78%) TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002 



571 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Central American Gains 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Central America's Cities Grow Bigger, and Poorer" (news article, March 17) depicted bleak outlooks for city dwellers and farmers alike. Yet there are also striking examples of effective international assistance resulting in a sense of promise. 
 In Cuscatlan, El Salvador, where half the homes were destroyed by earthquakes last year, I recently saw an innovative collaboration among local people, Save the Children, the Agency for International Development, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Peace Corps that is building anti-seismic homes and sanitation systems. 
 In a tenement neighborhood overlooking Tegucigalpa, Honduras, I saw a pilot vocational center -- a collaboration between Save the Children and the Honduran National Institute of Professional Formation -- that gives older girls and young women training in tailoring, and the chance to get micro-financing to start in-home sewing businesses. 
The dismal outlook for Central America can be counterbalanced by accounts of people achieving better lives through effective relief programs.

STEPHEN BORNEMEIER
Director of Planned Giving
Save the Children
Westport, Conn., March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); MICROFINANCE (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (91%); PEACE CORPS (57%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: BORNEMEIER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); HONDURAS (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%) LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



572 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Impose 29% Tariff On Canada Building Lumber 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 22 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said today that it would impose duties totaling 29 percent on softwood lumber -- the kind used to build houses -- that is imported from Canada, infuriating Canadian industry and government officials.
 The new tariffs will take effect on May 8, assuming the United States International Trade Commission decides by then that unfair Canadian trade practices have injured the American lumber industry. The commission, appointed by the United States government, concluded last year that Canadian mills had benefited from unfair subsidies and had priced their exports to the United States below production costs, leaving little doubt about how it will rule now. 
 Pierre Pettigrew, Canada's trade minister, called the new lumber duties "obscene" and said he was sorry that "the United States government did not have the nerve to confront its protectionist lumber producers."
Mr. Pettigrew said Canada would challenge the duties before the World Trade Organization and through the dispute-resolution provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
But he stopped short of threatening retaliatory measures, noting that Canada now runs a large trade surplus with the United States. "We have to be careful," he said. About 85 percent of all Canadian exports go to the United States.
In recent years, Canada has supplied about one-third of America's softwood lumber, or $6 billion worth a year. The Canadian industry says the new duties will force sawmills to close and eliminate thousands of jobs.
Representatives of the home-building industry in the United States also reacted angrily today, saying the tariff amounts to a hidden tax on new houses and complaining that, because different kinds of trees predominate in Canadian and American softwood forests, American lumber is not always a satisfactory substitute for Canadian.
Most of the new 29 percent duty is meant to offset subsidies that American officials say Canadian mills receive, notably through the very low fees provincial governments charge for the right to harvest trees on public land, known as stumpage. The rest of the duty is meant to penalize Canada for "dumping" lumber on the American market below cost, a practice the Canadians deny.
A senior American trade official said earlier this week that the administration's goal "is to get the Canadians to operate in a way where the market determines the price." Washington had proposed that Canadian provinces levy an export tax on lumber until their forestry pricing policies could be revamped.
But Mr. Pettigrew said today that accepting that proposal would mean giving up the chance to fight the duties under W.T.O. and Nafta rules. "The litigation route looked more and more interesting," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gurnam Mann grades lumber at the Interfor mill in Squamish, British Columbia. Canada's trade minister, Pierre Pettigrew, said he would challenge the duties announced yesterday by the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); SAW MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (86%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); LITIGATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); DUMPING (TRADE TERM); FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



573 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Russia Imposes Flat Tax on Income, and Its Coffers Swell 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 19 

 BODY:
The American publishing billionaire Steve Forbes once trumpeted a flat-rate income tax so simple you could fill it out on a postcard. The Russian government recently took his advice about the flat tax to heart.
 But instead of a postcard, Russians are filling out 12 pages of forms. 
 Still, Russia is reporting stellar first results from a bold experiment, a 13 percent flat-rate income tax. The centerpiece of the government's tax reform program, it is the lowest rate in all of Europe and the envy of American right-wingers. 
Personal income tax revenues jumped by 47 percent in 2001. Tax collection over all was up by half last year and, despite a small dip in February figures, the Russian Tax Ministry expects it to rise by more than that this year.
"The January figures made us happy," said Anna P. Komardina, deputy head of the individual income tax department at the ministry. "We have nothing to be sad about here."
The early success is leading economists to wonder if Russians, who rate the taxman one notch below the dentist, have leapt out of the shadows into the government's collection net. Or is the rise simply because traditional payers -- oil and gas companies -- are getting richer and paying more?
Either way, last year's figures are quite an improvement over those of the 1990's, when state tax authorities could not, no matter how they tried, beat taxes out of this stubborn economy. They begged. They pleaded. When all else failed, they sent in men with guns. 
Finally they abandoned the old system, three different rates running as high as 35 percent, and turned to the flat income tax to offer a carrot. 
In truth, it was not really that people had refused to pay. The economy, quite simply, was paralyzed. There was no cash. Companies paid one another in pigs, tires and teakettles, making taxes nearly impossible to calculate, never mind collect. 
An economic explosion in 1998 solved that problem. "The cash came back," said Christof Ruehl, the World Bank's economist in Moscow.
Unlike Americans, the vast majority of Russians are not required to file an income tax return because their taxes are deducted from their wages. That makes life easy for most. For those who do not have taxes deducted, the procedure, which is not likely to impress Mr. Forbes, goes like this:
First, pick up forms from the tax inspector, since they are not available in post offices. Then read 32 pages of instructions and fill out the 12-page form. Print carefully -- a misplaced mark is ground for rejection. 
Next, hand deliver the forms, which are truly considered filed only after the tax inspector signs them. (Translation: forms lost in Russia's spotty mail system are your fault.) Finally, to pay, go to the state-owned savings bank Sberbank (but not during its lunch break) and fill out the same form twice. Carefully copy the 20-digit number across the top.
Exhausting? Russian accountants think so. Some carry gifts to soften surly inspectors, perfume for women and whiskey for men. Others come prepared with tranquilizers.
Svetlana, a 45-year-old accountant who takes on private clients in addition to her day job at a store that sells Italian bathroom fixtures, says she drinks a drop of Valerian, a homeopathic sedative, before making her case to the tax inspector. On a recent visit to the social security office, she was told, after waiting in line for over three hours, that she had incorrectly filled out one of her forms.
"I asked, 'Please show me how to fill it out,' " she said, on the condition her last name not be used. "They told me, 'That's not our job.' They told me to come back when I got it right."
Income tax is a small piece of the government's pie. Revenues from the tax make up about 13 percent of income, compared with more than 50 percent of all government tax revenues in the United States. The state here takes a much larger chunk in other taxes.
The other taxes are the heart of the problem. Long before employers deduct income tax from workers' wages, they must pay the government for pensions, social security and health care. As a result, businesses like to hide the true value of the wages they pay.
Take Oleg, 40, whose small Moscow company makes women's coats. He agreed to speak on the condition his last name not be used. Oleg's 36 seamstresses each earned $200 a month last year. But in tax filings, he declared that he paid them only $66. 
On every dollar he pays his seamstresses, he must pay 35 cents in social taxes to the government. His conclusion? Don't tell the whole story.
"It's just not realistic," Oleg said. "Income tax comes after all the other wage taxes. They haven't changed. Why should I?"
But government policy makers are working hard to change the system. The new income tax is a sign of that to Vladislav L. Korochkin, the owner of a 450-employee company that grows and sells garden seeds. 
Mr. Korochkin, 38, thinks that top officials have become more responsive to criticism. He even stated his complaints about the arduous accounting requirements of a new corporate tax to President Vladimir V. Putin at a meeting with a small-business lobby group in December.
"It hasn't gotten worse and that's pretty good," said Mr. Korochkin at his company's Moscow headquarters, where the walls are lined with brightly colored seed packets.
According to government records, more businesses are standing up to be counted. Finance Minister Aleksei L. Kudrin said recently that 400,000 new businesses were registered in the year and a half that ended last July, a rise of 11 percent. 
Mr. Ruehl, the economist, advises caution. "There is no evidence that the increased tax collection is a result of people suddenly becoming happy taxpayers," he said. "The happy taxpayer is a person we have never met, which is weird because he should be very public."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladislav L. Korochin, who runs a seed company in Moscow, says top officials have become more responsive to criticism of the tax system. (Yuri Kozyrev for The New York Times) Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Russian Taxes"Federal taxes collected last year nearly tripled what they were in 1999. Graph tracking the federal taxes collected since 1995. *The ruble devalued in 1998.(Source: European Center for Economic Policy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); INCOME TAX (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) TAXATION; FLAT TAX 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



574 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Bias Toward Waste 

 BODY:
Detroit's latest automotive brainchild appears to be an updated version of the old family station wagon. The automakers say the new cars are designed to attract drivers who want the space of an S.U.V. plus the handling and looks of a luxury car. As a report in The Times by Danny Hakim makes clear, however, these vehicles will also allow manufacturers to exploit a loophole in the government's outdated fuel economy standards to sell inefficient -- if highly profitable -- cars. 
 The Senate had a chance last week to tighten these standards and do something meaningful about global warming and the country's dependence on foreign oil. It surrendered instead to a fear campaign mounted by the companies and the United Automobile Workers. The net result is that industry can continue to devote its energies to gaming the system instead of building cars that could save money, energy and even the atmosphere. 
 The new "crossover" vehicles are the latest products of this system. Whereas traditional station wagons were classified as ordinary cars under federal fuel economy rules, these new vehicles will be classified as light trucks, a category that includes pickup trucks, minivans and S.U.V.'s. Vehicles in the standard passenger car category must meet a fleetwide average of 27.5 miles per gallon; vehicles in the light truck category must meet a less exacting average of 20.7 m.p.g. These new wagons will look less like trucks than the S.U.V.'s do; nevertheless, they will be measured by the same lenient standard, at considerable cost to the environment and even to national security -- though at considerable profit to the automakers, who make most of their money on the gas-guzzlers.
A bill sponsored by Senators John McCain, John Kerry and Ernest Hollings would have ended this nonsense. Over time it would have eliminated the distinctions between light trucks and passenger cars, meanwhile requiring a gradual increase in average fuel efficiency for all vehicles to 36 m.p.g. by 2016. This was not a radical proposal. A cautious report last year from the National Academy of Sciences suggested that such gains were well within Detroit's technological capacity, even without cutting-edge vehicles like electric/gas hybrid cars. Indeed, the automakers themselves had promised, during a flurry of one-upmanship two years ago, to produce a 25 percent increase in fuel economy without federal prodding. Yet to listen to the unions and manufacturers, you would have thought the bill would bring the entire economy of the Upper Midwest to its knees and squeezed American drivers into dangerous little mini-cars.
Their victory may be illusory. At the moment, with gas prices low, Detroit can count on the indulgence of consumers who seem unconcerned about fuel efficiency. Yet history suggests that things will change; the oil shocks of the 1970's caught the automakers woefully short of efficient cars. Industry and labor's present intransigence could cost them heavily down the road, especially if the only fuel-efficient cars in the showrooms turn out to be Japanese.
Another of history's lessons is that Detroit will respond to timely regulation. Though industry lobbyists almost always predict bankruptcy when Congress demands change, the engineers on the shop floor almost always find a cost-effective solution. Unfortunately, apart from one lonely tax credit, the Senate has produced an energy bill with no incentives for innovation and a bias toward waste. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (97%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); MINIVANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%) AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



575 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Way to Remember Sept. 11 

 BODY:
There is no easy way to memorialize an event as ineffably sad as the loss of 3,000 innocent lives in New York last Sept. 11. The New York State Assembly has, however, seized on precisely the wrong way, passing a bill sponsored by Speaker Sheldon Silver to create an official holiday and a day off for state workers. 
 Relieving people of work does not necessarily move their thoughts in a desired direction. The talk on Labor Day is of barbecues, not the victories won when workers unite. Few people caught up in Memorial Day traffic bestir themselves to remember the Union's Civil War dead. Vacation days lend themselves less to sentiment than to pragmatism. It seems inevitable that, following the model of the birthdays of our first and 16th presidents, this new holiday would soon fall not on Sept. 11 but on the closest Monday to it. 
 The State Senate, pointing out that a holiday would mean millions of dollars in lost revenue for the New York economy, has passed its own bill that would make Sept. 11 a day of remembrance, when the American flag would be displayed across the state, and flags would fly at half-staff. This is a much better way to encourage a statewide commitment to remember the dead.
In attacking the World Trade Center, the terrorists were partly taking aim at America's, and New York State's, proud role in the global economy. One important way we can defy their dark vision is by doing precisely what they don't want us to do -- go to work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%) TERRORISM; HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



576 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 383 words

PERSON: Robin Anderson 

HEADLINE: Robin Anderson, 51, Creator Of Documentaries on Australia 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, March 22 

 BODY:
Robin Anderson, an Australian filmmaker whose award-winning documentaries ranged from examinations of tribal life in Papua New Guinea to social and political controversies in Australia, died here on March 8. She was 51.
 The cause was cancer, her family said. 
 With her husband, Bob Connolly, Ms. Anderson made five full-length films on difficult, seemingly unpromising issues, each of which took several years to film.
The latest, "Facing the Music" (2001), about student and employee campaigns at Sydney University to defend the music faculty against being dismantled by financial cutbacks, received its premiere at the Sydney Film Festival in June on the day after Ms. Anderson's illness had been diagnosed as fatal. She lived long enough to know that a private benefactor who saw the film offered money to save the music school. 
Ms. Anderson, born in Perth, Western Australia, earned a degree in economics in Australia before receiving a master's in sociology from Columbia University. After two years in New York, she returned to Australia as a television researcher and married Mr. Connolly, a director of documentaries and profiles of rural life for public television.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Anderson is survived by her brother, Michael, and her daughters Katherine, 14, and Joanna, 10. 
The first Anderson-Connolly film, "First Contact," made from 1980 to '82, was nominated for an Academy Award. It introduced the couple and their audiences to remote regions of Papua New Guinea.
The film's success led the team to make "Joe Leahy's Neighbors" (1989), about the political and cultural struggles of a mixed-race coffee planter, and "Black Harvest" (1992), about land and money disputes and their escalation into tribal warfare.
The films established the team's international reputation, with each one winning a major prize at the Cinema du Reel festival, which honors documentaries.
Their best-known work, assembled from hundreds of hours of candid film, was "Rats in the Ranks" (1996), an often hilarious close-up look at small-town political infighting. Reviewing the film for The New York Times, Janet Maslin said that "Rats in the Ranks" appreciates "the dauntless energy and sheer Shakespearean conniving it takes to stay afloat" in the "shark-infested waters" of local politics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FILM (90%); RODENTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); CANCER (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (79%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Motion Pictures 

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



577 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Group Says It Will Increase Bombings 

BYLINE:  By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: NABLUS, West Bank, March 22 

 BODY:
A day after the United States said it would add their group to its list of terrorist organizations, leaders of a Palestinian militant movement defiantly said today that the listing would prompt them to carry out more suicide bombings in Israel.
 "We have tens of people who are ready and willing," said Naser Badawi, who said he was a political leader of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, which the United States on Thursday said it would classify as a terrorist group. "We are talking to young people all the time. We will continue our operations, and to respond to the American position, there will be even more actions." 
 The group's statement said "it is an honor for the brigades" to be added to the United States list of terrorist groups, given that "America is the greatest sponsor of terrorism in the world." The statement cited American military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, today condemned the latest suicide bombing by the group, on Thursday in Jerusalem, and called for an end to attacks on civilians. But Mr. Badawi said the Aksa Brigades would ignore that.
"He does not support what we are doing," he said with a shrug, sitting on a sofa in his living room with a large-caliber pistol stuffed between the cushions just to his right. "But we believe this is our national responsibility. We respect our leader, but the decisions to carry out attacks remains with the Aksa Brigades leadership."
The group grew up last summer, starting here in the Balata refugee among members of Fatah, Mr. Arafat's movement, who did not believe that he was acting forcefully enough. Soon it spread throughout the West Bank and Gaza.
Last fall, the group's leaders said it would target only soldiers and Israeli settlers. But that view changed early this year, in part because Hamas, the militant Islamic group, had raised its standing among Palestinians with its suicide attacks, and Fatah was losing influence.
"What America did gives new legitimacy to Al Aksa Brigades," said Hussam Khader, a Palestinian legislator representing Nablus who opposes the suicide attacks. "Politically, this gives them a real boost to be the real representatives of the Palestinian people."
Mr. Badawi said, "The Palestinian people can now begin to believe that there is a force that can confront the Israeli force." The group decided to broaden its attacks, he added, because "we reached the conclusion that in Israeli society there are no civilians. We tried to create that separation, but then we see that even 12-year-old Israeli boys are given weapons."
Mr. Badawi, speaking through a translator, was interviewed for an hour this afternoon in his home in the Balata refugee camp. He said he had met with a few other journalists earlier in the day. He had intended simply to issue the brigade's statement, he said, but he made other remarks after long questioning.
The brigades have claimed responsibility for several recent suicide bombings, including one in an ultra-Orthodox religious neighborhood in Jerusalem on March 2 that killed nine Israelis, including six children.
Bashir, a 27-year-old fighter in the Aksa Brigades who would not give his last name, said he agreed with the decision to attack Israeli civilians because "wherever there is an occupier, we should consider them a target. Besides, Israel sees all of us as targets."
Bashir, who was injured by Israeli gunfire late last month and still walks on a crutch, was sitting with Mr. Khader, the legislator, who interjected to say: "I don't agree with that, and I tell them that all the time. If we keep going this way, the situation will only grow worse."
Mr. Khader's view, while not unique, is not widely shared. In talks with many Palestinians across the political and economic spectrum in recent days, most wholeheartedly support the suicide attacks and say they are helping to bring concessions from the Israelis.
"That is why agreeing to become a martyr" in a suicide bombing "has become a general phenomenon among our people," Mr. Badawi said. Just outside his home, his 8-year-old son had used chalk to write the phrase "Sharon the butcher" in Arabic on the sidewalk.
Mr. Badawi says everyone in the Aksa Brigades considers Mr. Arafat "the leader of the Palestinian people, a symbol. And we do not want to be in contradiction with him." 
But both Mr. Badawi and Mr. Khader said the group's leaders do not communicate with Mr. Arafat. Mr. Badawi said Mr. Arafat had never approached anyone from the Aksa Brigades to ask them to stop the suicide bombings in Israel -- although the leader did make a public statement to that effect on Thursday.
He added that if Mr. Arafat reaches an agreement for a cease-fire, the Aksa Brigades will decide independently whether to abide by it.
Mr. Khader said he worried that alienating the United States will leave the Palestinians in a hopeless situation. Mr. Badawi agreed in part, saying, "Of course it is important to have this support from the United States. But we don't want just verbal support. We want action. And now we see that the United States is just following what Israel wants."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Aksa Martyrs Brigades, training yesterday in Gaza. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (96%); TERRORISM (94%); BOMBINGS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AL FATAH (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); HAMAS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TEEN SUICIDE (77%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFUGEES (65%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (64%); RELIGION (50%) PALESTINIANS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (94%) AL AKSA MARTYRS BRIGADES 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



578 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Europe Lists U.S. Imports It Plans to Tax 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 22 

 BODY:
The European Union has drawn up a list of imports from the United States, worth about $2.1 billion annually, to penalize in retaliation for the Bush administration's recent imposition of tariffs of up to 30 percent on some imported steel.
 American steel, textiles and citrus fruit are among the items that would face punitive duties, officials said. 
 The European Union has threatened sanctions if the United States does not agree to pay compensation for its measures to protect the struggling American steel industry. Under World Trade Organization rules, the union is permitted to impose sanctions as harsh as a 100 percent import tariff almost immediately, if the United States "safeguard" measures for steel cannot be justified. 
The union is confident that the Americans will not be able to justify them, an official said, speaking on condition that he not be identified. But the official said rapid action was looking less likely.
Instead, he said, the union will rely on the more thoroughgoing but slower dispute- resolution system at the trade organization. Under the procedure, the trade group conducts hearings in Geneva and then rules on what sanctions the union can impose. The process takes about 18 months.
"There is a lot of frustration in European public opinion," said Pascal Lamy, the union's trade commissioner. The feeling, he said, is that "if we wait for the judge for 15 months, we are crazy or naive or weak." He continued: "But it's a political decision on our side. I want to stay within the international rules."
Under the trade group's dispute procedure, which began this week, the union has until May 20 to submit a list of products to be sanctioned. The draft list is now being circulated among the union's member states for comments before it is submitted to the trade group.
 In Washington, an American trade official said the Bush administration had hoped that the European Union would allow the dispute-resolution process to go forward before drawing up plans for retaliation. American officials have already begun discussions with the Europeans and with other countries, including China, over the steel tariffs and demands for compensation.
 "We're disappointed because we're still in the consultative phase at the W.T.O.," the American official said. Any retaliation now, he said, was "definitely premature." 
The European official who spoke about the way the union was proceeding said the list of products to be sanctioned was drafted with American domestic political impact in mind. Citrus fruit is on the list because of its importance in Florida, where the 2000 presidential vote was extremely close, the official said; steel made the list because of its importance in West Virginia and Pennsylvania, and textiles because of North and South Carolina, four important battleground states in midterm elections this year.
Separately, the union is putting final touches on protective measures for its own steel industry, which it will activate as soon as next week if it sees a risk of a surge in cheap steel diverted from the United States reaching its shores.
The union is expected to set up quotas based on average annual imports over the last two or three years, and then impose "safeguard" tariffs on imports above the quotas. The tariffs will be lower than those of the United States, the official said, because the point is to maintain current trade patterns and keep them open, not to disrupt them, as the American measures will.
The steel tariffs and threats of retaliation come as another trans-Atlantic trade dispute is also at a critical stage. The union has applied to the World Trade Organization for authority to impose $4 billion in trade sanctions on the United States to compensate for the unfair tax breaks the United States gives its exporters. Washington has said that the harm done to the union by the tax breaks is closer to $1 billion. The panel hearing the dispute is scheduled to reach a decision next month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (62%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (58%) MELLER, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



579 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: No-Tax Pledge By McGreevey Faces Test 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 22 

 BODY:
In the final weeks of last year's governor's race, and the heady days immediately following his landslide victory at the polls, James E. McGreevey made a sweeping promise to New Jersey residents that he would not raise taxes. 
 Less than three months into his term, however, Mr. McGreevey is struggling to close a steep budget deficit, and his administration has been steadily trying to prepare the public for an increase in the cigarette tax and changes in the corporate business tax, which will bring an additional $700 million to state coffers. 
 Mr. McGreevey is not scheduled to outline his budget plan until he addresses the State Legislature on Tuesday, but as details of the plan have begun to emerge, elected officials from both parties are eagerly awaiting the public reaction to the governor's likely reversal on taxes. 
Even Mr. McGreevey's critics concede that he has been remarkably disciplined in reminding the public that he inherited the deficit from the Republicans, who controlled Trenton for the past decade, and in arguing that they should bear much of the responsibility for the painful moves to come. He has also tried to create some political wiggle room for himself since taking office by refining his no-tax pledge and saying that he was only referring to the sales and income taxes.
But no elected official in Trenton has forgotten that in 1990, Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax increase cost Democrats the governor's mansion and control of both houses of the Legislature. Especially not Mr. McGreevey. At a press conference in the State House last week, the governor was asked whether his shifting position on tax increases was similar to Mr. Florio's. Mr. McGreevey used some of his most forceful language to date to describe the problem he now confronts. 
"During the course of the campaign I clearly stated it was my objective not to raise taxes," he said, thumping on the lectern to emphasize his words. "Then, upon seeing that, literally, this represents the largest deficit not only in the history of the State of New Jersey, this is the largest deficit of any state government in the history of the United States of America. This is the all-time record-breaker. One-quarter of budget."
Mr. McGreevey based that claim on projections that New Jersey will have a deficit equal to 25 percent of its total budget. No state has ever had a deficit as high on a percentage basis.
But Republicans, who have bristled at the governor's repeated criticism, accuse Mr. McGreevey of overstating the problem in order to lower expectations and allow himself to magnify his accomplishments once a balanced budget is finally adopted. The governor's office has projected a $6 billion shortfall; last year's budget was $23 billion.
"There can be no shortfall before a budget has been presented to us," said State Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon. "I don't see how you can blame the Whitman administration or prior Legislatures for a budget that has yet to be written." 
The chief culprit in the state's budget problems was the economy, which brought a sharp drop in tax revenues during the past year. Mr. McGreevey has already taken steps to close the $3 billion shortfall in the fiscal year ending June 30 by laying off 600 state workers, enacting a 5 percent across-the-board cut and tapping into surpluses in an assortment of special funds. 
Now he must propose a budget at a time when income tax receipts are still down and automatic increases in state spending are likely to exceed projected revenues by $5 billion or more. The size of that gap, in a budget that will likely approach $24 billion, has forced Mr. McGreevey to consider a handful of steps that he had hoped to avoid. 
He said the state work force would likely be reduced by an early retirement program and more layoffs might be needed eventually. 
Despite his relentless complaints that Republicans borrowed money irresponsibly during the past decade, Mr. McGreevey is considering a plan to raise $1.5 billion by issuing bonds against the state's proceeds from the tobacco settlement.
But the most provocative parts of the program are the governor's two proposals to adjust the state tax code. In a reversal from two months ago, the governor said this week that he has not ruled out a 50-cent-per-pack increase in the cigarette tax, which would raise $200 million per year.
He is also likely to adjust the corporate business tax by closing loopholes that allow some major companies to pay as little as $200 per year in state taxes. Those changes could bring in an additional $500 million in tax revenues. The plan now being weighed by the governor does not call for an increase in the corporate tax rate.
"I think people have the reasonable expectation to have fairness and equity," Mr. McGreevey said, noting that the average New Jersey family pays more than $200 in state taxes. 
But Republicans have already branded the plan a tax increase, and warn that it might prolong the economic downturn by forcing companies to leave the state and costing workers their jobs. 
"New Jersey has learned the hard way that tax hikes cost jobs -- especially when they're aimed at our state's largest employers," said Senator Joseph Kyrillos of Middletown. "In fact, the last time our businesses faced a significant tax increase, over 200,000 New Jerseyeans lost their jobs."
Recent public opinion polls show that most New Jersey residents are not deeply opposed to higher corporate taxes. But they already pay some of the highest property tax rates in the country, so some political analysts warn that if the governor cuts the property tax rebate program, or if his reduction in aid to school districts and local governments leads to property tax increases, Mr. McGreevey could face political consequences. 
"If he doesn't raise the sales or income tax, I think he can finesse his way through this," said David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. "But there's a second whammy in this budget crisis: How long will school district officials wait to say to their own constituents that they have to raise property taxes because their aid has been frozen by Jim McGreevey?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) TAXATION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



580 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Volcker Proposes Andersen e Controlled by New Panel
Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, proposed that the government drop its case against Arthur Andersen and allow him to put a new oversight board in charge of the accounting firm. He said the board would make management changes and focus the firm almost exclusively on auditing.
 Mr. Volcker's proposal steps up the pressure on plaintiffs to settle their lawsuits against Andersen, something the accounting firm considers vital to restoring confidence in its viability. In separate action, a federal mediator was appointed to try to resolve civil cases against Andersen. Page A1. 

Spending Surge Eases Recession
An unexpected surge in government spending, which contributed to the swing in the federal budget from surplus to deficit, helps to explain why the recession has been so mild and may be ending. Some of the stepped-up spending went to the military and to fighting terrorism, but significantly more went to highways, school construction, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and municipal projects. A1.

Duties Planned on Canadian Lumber
Saying that Canadian trade practices have injured the American lumber industry, the Bush administration plans to impose duties totaling 29 percent on Canadian softwood lumber beginning May 8. Pierre Pettigrew, Canada's trade minister, left, said Ottawa would challenge the duties in the World Trade Organization and through the North American Free Trade Agreement. C2.

Canadian clothing manufacturers have taken advantage of free trade agreements to flood the United States with casual pants, suits and sport coats. The surge in imports has put pressure on American clothing companies, driving some manufacturers out of business. C2.

New Travelers Shares Rise Slightly
Shares of the Travelers insurance company rose just under 6 percent yesterday in their first day of trading. The performance disappointed some investors and suggested that the stock had been priced at close to its potential in its initial offering on Thursday. C3.

Questions About Verizon's Debt
The bond and share prices of Verizon Communications fell after two rating firms said the company needed to either reduce its dependence on short-term borrowing or increase its bank commitments backing that debt. C2.

Postal Rates Rise on Bulk Mail
Postal rates will increase this summer as part of an agreement, approved yesterday, between the postal service and businesses that use bulk mail. Rates on bulk mail are expected to increase as early as June 30. A11.

Markets Close Down for Week
The Dow Jones industrial average fell again, its first losing week after five consecutive winners. The Dow slipped 52.17 points, to 10,427.67. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.89 points, to 1,148.70. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 17.44 points, to 1,851.39. C4.

United Recalling 1,300 Workers
United Airlines said it was recalling 1,300 employees and hiring 900 more in certain markets as business began to pick up. C4.

Judge Allows DaimlerChrysler Suits
A judge in Detroit has refused to dismiss two lawsuits accusing DaimlerChrysler of lying to Chrysler shareholders. C2.

Technology Review for Police Dept.
Raymond W. Kelly, commissioner of the New York Police Department, is moving to update the department's computer equipment, asking I.B.M., Deloitte Consulting and Merrill Lynch to evaluate its troubled systems. B3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,427.67 down 52.17Nasdaq composite -- 1,851.39 down 17.4410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.39% up 0.03The euro -- $0.8767 down 0.0053The dollar -- 132.78 yen up 0.90 Graph tracks daily closings of Dow Jones Industrials from January-March. Yesterday: 10,427.67

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); POSTAL RATES (87%); APPAREL MFG (86%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); INSURANCE (72%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GARMENT WORKERS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (67%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); POSTAL SERVICE (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: METLIFE INSURANCE CO OF CONNECTICUT (81%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



581 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Broad Increase in Postal Rates Is Approved by Federal Panel 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22 

 BODY:
The cost of sending a first-class letter will increase this summer by 3 cents, to 37 cents, as part of a broad postal rate increase.
 The rate changes are part of an agreement, approved today by the independent Postal Rate Commission, between the financially struggling postal service and many of the businesses and organizations that send bulk mail. 
 The postal service's board of governors will decide later when the new rates take effect, probably the end of June, officials said. The board said it would take up the matter at its meeting in April. 
"This decision will allow the Postal Service an immediate influx of revenue while holding rate increases to a reasonable percentage for postal customers," said George A. Omas, chairman of the rate commission.
First-class stamps will rise to 37 cents from 34 cents, and postcards will increase to 23 cents, from 21 cents. The last increase in first-class stamps was a 1 cent rise in January 2001, to 34 cents. 
Postal officials said they had negotiated the agreement with as many as 60 major customers to raise bulk rates as early as June 30 -- three months earlier than expected -- to shore up the finances of the service. The Post Office has seen mail volume drop because of the economic downturn and has had unexpected expenses because of the discovery last fall of anthrax-tainted mail. 
The post office says it expects to lose more than $1 billion in this fiscal year, which ends Aug. 31
The Magazine Publishers of America has said the settlement is in the best interest of mailers and the industry, adding that without the agreement the service might have sought higher rate increases. 
But the American Postal Workers Union opposes the deal, which allowed the expedited rate decision without the usual prolonged course of hearings. 
"The new rates will require American citizens to subsidize giant mailers," said William Burrus, the union president. 
Since 1981, the union said, rates for consumers have risen 93 percent, while rates for large business mailers have increased 76 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE COST: New Postal Rates"Postage for most types of mail, including these, will change soon: MAIL TYPE Express Mail, eight ouncesNEW PRICE: $13.65NET CHANGE: $1.20 Priority Mail, one poundNEW PRICE: 3.85NET CHANGE: .35 Certified mailNEW PRICE: 2.30NET CHANGE: .10 First-class mail, first ounceNEW PRICE: .37NET CHANGE: .03 PostcardNEW PRICE: .23NET CHANGE: .02 Parcel post (typical two-pound package)NEW PRICE: 4.14NET CHANGE: .69 Presorted utility billNEW PRICE: .278NET CHANGE: .023 Weekly news magazine, presorted, 5.8 ouncesNEW PRICE: .175NET CHANGE: .01

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL RATES (95%); POSTAL SERVICE (91%); APPROVALS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ANTHRAX (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%) POSTAL SERVICE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) POSTAL RATE COMMISSION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



582 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Security-Prone Oscar Ceremony a Blight on Business 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 22 

 BODY:
The long-awaited return of the Oscars to Hollywood, after an absence of 42 years, was intended to incite development and symbolize the neighborhood's economic revitalization. Instead, its first act is to shut the place down.
 "It is ironic," said Leron Gubler, president of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce. "But I think most of the merchants here realize that we have to go through a few days of pain in order to receive some long-term benefits." 
 Security, the watchword of the post-Sept. 11 world, has come to the Academy Awards, transforming the event into what promises to be a vastly different experience for everyone from stars to gawking fans.
Hundreds of officers from local and federal law enforcement agencies will ring central Hollywood on Sunday night, in at least three levels of security checks and keeping guard on a traffic-free perimeter of nearly two square miles. As a result, dozens of shops along Hollywood Boulevard and inside the new Hollywood and Highland retail complex -- site of the Kodak Theater, where the awards show will take place for the first time -- will be closed.
"All of the restaurants and nightclubs in the complex will be shut down, at least for this first year," said Bruce Davis, executive director of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the group that awards the Oscars. "And we're not allowing any of these Oscar-viewing parties in the complex this year. To do so would have tripled the amount of traffic coming into the area, and it would have meant that every bus boy in every restaurant would have to get a security clearance."
Not everyone is delighted with the impact of the Oscar's return to Hollywood. At a meeting of neighborhood merchants a few weeks ago, complaints were heard from several owners of some of the strip's souvenir shops, restaurants, hostels and tattoo parlors who were unconvinced of the benefits of losing customers for several days to help developers burnish the Hollywood brand name.
"I know a lot of these merchants who have been complaining about the security closures," said Raubi Sundher, whose family owns the Hollywood Wax Museum and another museum across the street, Guinness World of Records. "And I know, it's tough. A lot of them are already operating pretty close to the bone."
The problem has been a precipitous drop in the number of foreign tourists coming into Hollywood since Sept. 11. Mr. Sundher said the number of travelers' checks his museums are receiving from foreigners had dropped by 90 percent from this time last year. 
Laura Ziskin, producer of this year's Oscar show, warned at the annual nominees' luncheon this month that people should plan to arrive by mid-afternoon -- hours before the show starts -- to be sure of getting through the traffic and security checks. There will be metal detectors, as has become common at the Oscars over the last decade, but there will also be bag searches and identity checks. 
On Sunday, subway trains will buzz past the Hollywood station without stopping and bus service in the area will be truncated. Overhead, air space will be restricted. 
Even the people sitting out on the official red-carpet bleachers have been affected. Sandi Stratton, 59, a homemaker from Escondido, Calif., has been in the bleachers for each of the last 32 Oscars, going so far as to sleep in a tent for 10 days last year outside the Shrine Auditorium to guarantee a seat.
This year, her 33rd ceremony, Ms. Stratton will be among the 400 or so people in the bleachers, but to get there she had to apply to the academy in February and submit to a background check. She was among about 4,000 people who applied. There was no camping out and, frankly, she said, she misses it.
"It's nice to know we have a seat," Ms. Stratton said. "But it was a lot of fun in previous years to sit out there for days and watch how everything comes together. To be honest, this is a nuisance this year."
What makes this new venue a particular security concern is that it is in the middle of one of the region's most congested neighborhoods. Both the Shrine Auditorium and the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, the most recent Oscar venues, had plenty of open space around them to establish security perimeters. 
The post-Oscar parties given by the big winners may also be tossed a curve this year. Universal Pictures and DreamWorks, distributors of "A Beautiful Mind," one of the best-picture contenders, are giving a party jointly with USA Films, which distributed "Gosford Park," another top nominee. But their party is to be at the Renaissance Hotel, which is linked to the Kodak Theater inside the security perimeter, so if either of those films does take the top prize no one will be able to attend the celebration who does not already have an Oscar ticket or official credential.
"They're doing more than if it was a presidential visit," said Johnny Grant, known as the honorary mayor of Hollywood and long involved in efforts to resuscitate the neighborhood after decades of economic stagnation. "I know people who tell me they always put on a tuxedo and sneak into the Governor's Ball after the show. Well, if I was them, I wouldn't try it this year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of officers will ring central Hollywood on Sunday night in three levels of security checks in a traffic-free area of nearly two square miles. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting the location of the Kodak Theater: Dozens of shops around the Kodak Theater will be closed on Sunday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FILM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TATTOO PARLORS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%) MOTION PICTURES; TERRORISM; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); KODAK THEATER (LOS ANGELES) 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



583 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Rise in Federal Spending May HaveHelped Ease Recession 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
When a bitterly divided Congress failed to pass an economic stimulus bill last fall, many predicted the recession would only worsen. But while few were paying attention, government spending surpassed the amounts envisioned in the stimulus measure, exceeding what even the most vociferous advocates wanted.
 The unexpected surge -- along with the remarkable strength in consumer spending -- helps to explain why the recession, to nearly everyone's surprise, has been so mild and may be ending. 
 The mood was much different last fall. Anticipating harder times, Democrats and Republicans pushed for an additional $80 billion to $100 billion in federal outlays. While they agreed on this goal, they deadlocked over how to allocate the money. Democrats wanted the government to spend nearly all of the money, while the Republicans emphasized new tax breaks for business and consumers, not outright spending. 
Despite the bill's failure -- a severely watered-down version finally passed this month -- government outlays rose sharply in response to dozens of uncoordinated decisions and fortuitous windfalls. The surge, which started in October, has continued into this month at a rate of more than $100 billion, new government data suggest. And income tax cuts that went into effect at the beginning of this year are expected to provide a further lift to the economy.
"You can reasonably argue that the recession, which seems to have ended, came to an end because of aggressive government spending," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a forecasting and data gathering firm.
Some of the stepped-up outlays, of course, went to the military and to pay for domestic actions to fight terrorism in response to the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Significantly more, however, was delivered in the form of increased spending on highways, school construction, Medicaid, unemployment insurance and numerous municipal projects.
After shrinking last summer, the American economy reversed course and grew from October through December at an annual rate of 1.4 percent. The results of aggressive government spending -- not only at the federal level, but among states and cities as well -- accounts for much of the swing from contraction to expansion, even without adding in the tax breaks, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reports. The rise in government outlays, along with the remarkable bounceback in consumer spending after Sept. 11, more than offset declines in other sectors, particularly business spending on new equipment, offices and factories. 
Will that last? The hope is that the momentum from consumers and government, two powerful engines of demand, will restart business investment and the recovery will be on its way. The danger, however, is that both may falter before the economy picks up sufficient speed.
Mortgage refinancing, rising wages, bargain prices, falling energy costs, tax cuts and rebates, rock-bottom interest rates -- all these have sustained consumers through the recession, despite rising indebtedness. And while this year's income tax cuts promise to provide more stimulus, most of the other supports show signs of fading.
Something similar may be happening to government spending -- not at the federal level, where the outlays in response to terrorism seem open-ended, but in the states and cities. Most experts thought that spending at the state and local level would decline as tax revenue fell during the recession. Reflecting this view, the advocates of a stimulus package pushed last fall to include subsidies that would permit states and cities to keep up their spending.
To nearly everyone's surprise the states and cities found ways to sustain their spending anyway, despite balanced-budget laws that require them to keep spending in line with revenue. This rear-guard resistance, however, seems likely to give way by early summer when many new budgets, mandating cuts, go into effect for the fiscal year 2003. 
"You can expect the drop in state and local spending that did not occur last fall to begin to occur now," said Kevin Carey, an analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
So far, good luck and ingenuity have helped the states and cities dodge that bullet. There was, for example, a windfall in 1998 and 1999 from a federal excise tax on gasoline and autos. That tax, earmarked for the states, produced an unanticipated $10 billion during those boom years that is now being spent to build and repair highways.
"It takes time to arrange to pour concrete," said William Hoagland, a senior staff member of the Senate Budget Committee.
There were other tactics for sustaining spending, despite falling tax revenue. Reserve funds, built up to record levels during the boom, have been drawn down. Some spending cuts have been announced and then postponed. And some states and cities have simply crossed their fingers.
Consider Vermont. Faced with rising Medicaid costs and payments to needy families, cities in Vermont have drawn $750,000 from a $2 million account set aside to clean up oil spills. "The gamble is that there won't be a spill into our rivers," said Steven Jeffrey, executive director of the Vermont League of Cities and Towns, "or a leak from some aging storage tank, and we won't have to repay the money," 
The fortuitous surge in federal spending showed up in a report this month from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. The report compared federal outlays in the first five months of the current fiscal year -- October through February -- with spending in the same months in the previous year. Outlays were up 13.1 percent, double the usual percentage increase. Over 12 months, the additional surge, if it continues, will total $106 billion, or the equivalent of about one full percentage point in economic growth, even before counting spillover effects. 
"If you want to argue that we have had stimulus, without stimulus legislation last fall, I think that is certainly the case," said Barry B. Anderson, deputy director of the Congressional Budget Office.
The jump in federal spending has been most noticeable in rising outlays for the military, for internal security -- particularly at airports -- and in subsidies to airlines to keep them flying. New York has also received help paying for the cleanup at ground zero.
But an even greater amount has shown up as spikes in federal spending for Medicaid, for unemployment insurance, and, among other things, in outlays for education and highways. Some of this money was channeled to the states, which accounted for slightly more than half of the fourth-quarter surge in overall government spending.
The states and cities got their fattened subsidies after all, without having them mandated in an economic stimulus package, as the advocates had demanded last fall. The subject did not even come up in the brief debate this month over the very watered-down economic stimulus bill that Congress passed and President Bush signed. It will cut some business taxes and add only $8 billion to government spending, all of it for extended unemployment benefits. 
Economists and budget analysts are just beginning to offer explanations for the unanticipated part of the surge in government spending since October. The Medicaid increase, for example, is attributed mostly to rising costs for prescription drugs and to growing participation in a health insurance program for poor children. And stepped-up spending for education has helped.
"There are a multiplicity of reasons," said Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget Priorities, "for this extraordinary increase in government spending."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The North Carolina Department of Transportation has intervened in a much-delayed widening of Interstate 40 near Greensboro. Construction spending is just one area that has received additional capital. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) Chart: "Unplanned Stimulus"Despite the inability of Congress to agree on an economic stimulus package, a sharp rise in federal government spending during the first five months of the fiscal year may have had the same effect. U.S. GOVERNMENT SPENDINGIn billions Unemployment insurance+66.4%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): $19OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): $12 Medicaid+16.7%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): 60OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): 51 Defense/military+12.8%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): 128OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): 114 Medicare+7.8%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): 101OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): 94 Social Security benefits+5.8%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): 184OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): 174 Other programs+17.5%OCT. 2001 - FEB. 2002 (FISCAL 2002): 267OCT. 2000 - FEB. 2001 (FISCAL 2001): 227(Source: Congressional Budget Office)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); MEDICAID (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); STATISTICS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



584 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush Looks South 

 BODY:
Most Latin American nations are feeling a bit jilted these days. President Bush came into office pledging to make them a top foreign policy priority, but has found it hard to live up to his commitment. 
 The president's current trip to Mexico, Peru and El Salvador may be an effort to show his engagement with the region, but it also underscores his failure to advance the hemispheric agenda. Mr. Bush's friendship with President Vicente Fox of Mexico was once again manifest yesterday in Monterrey, but Mexicans are widely disappointed by the lack of progress on an immigration reform that would clarify the status of millions of undocumented workers in the United States. 
 Similarly, even though Mr. Bush becomes the first American president ever to visit their nation when he arrives today, Peruvians are disappointed that the United States has failed to renew the Andean Trade Preferences Act. The law exempts an array of exports from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru from duties. It is vitally important to these countries, and relatively uncontroversial on Capitol Hill. The Senate's failure to extend it before the president's arrival in Lima was inexcusable. 
The administration's broader trade agenda, including the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, suffered a severe blow earlier this month when President Bush decided to impose new tariffs on steel imports. The president's top economic advisers have dismissed the move as a concession to domestic political concerns, but that will do little to alleviate simmering trade tensions with Brazil. The administration's passivity in the face of Argentina's financial crisis is a further signal that Washington is not overly concerned about the region's plight. That impression only emboldens populist leaders like Venezuela's Hugo Chavez, who appears eager to drive a wedge between the United States and Latin America. 
The fate of the Andean nations' fragile democracies is the most pressing concern. In Peru, a terrorist bomb set off outside the United States Embassy in Lima on Wednesday killed nine people. The attack brought back memories of Peru's painful struggle earlier in the 90's against the Shining Path guerrilla movement. 
In neighboring Colombia, of course, the war between the state and Marxist guerrillas is intensifying in the aftermath of the collapse of peace talks last month. Right-wing paramilitary groups, often allied with members of the military, are as much of a threat to that society. 
This week the Bush administration asked Congress to ease restrictions on military aid to Colombia that limits its use to the fight against drug trafficking. The issue deserves a thorough debate. Distinguishing between counterinsurgency and counter-narcotics is a phony exercise in the Colombian context, but Congress ought to remain wary of any assistance that is not conditioned on the Colombian Army's improving its human rights record.
All told, Latin America presents a distressing mosaic at the moment, one that Washington needs to be more concerned about. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); IMMIGRATION (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); ARMIES (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TERRORISM (66%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (66%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EL SALVADOR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); EL SALVADOR (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); MEXICO (94%); ECUADOR (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%) LATIN AMERICA; PERU; MEXICO; EL SALVADOR

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



585 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: As Options Shrink, New York Revisits Idea of Incineration 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
In recent years, the idea of using incineration to dispose of some or all of New York City's daily tide of garbage seemed about as dead as Marley's ghost. 
 A plan in the mid-1980's to burn about half of the total in an archipelago of incinerators across the five boroughs was downsized, then killed. The last municipal incinerator closed in the early 1990's. Environmental objections, neighborhood politics, and perhaps most important, a bounty of other options, especially adequate and affordable landfill space to bury the trash, made incineration look like a footnote. 
 But now the idea of trash-into-ash is back, and part of the reason, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials seemed to be warning New Yorkers this week, is that the once-abundant alternatives are becoming harder to come by, and to pay for. "We're going to have to take a look at all different possibilities," Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday on his weekly radio show when asked about the current state of incineration technology. "No matter what you hear about people yelling and screaming, an awful lot of this technology has gotten very much better." 
Mr. Bloomberg's sanitation commissioner, John J. Doherty, twice brought up the issue of incineration, without ever being asked about it, in testifying earlier this week before the City Council. "I don't know what the thoughts of the city are, what people's feelings are on it are, I don't know if things have changed," Mr. Doherty later told reporters. "But we have to think about it, we have to look at it again." 
Questions of cost are driving that search. Between 1998 and 2000, the cost of exporting the city's trash beyond its borders more than tripled, and is projected to more than double from that amount by 2004 to $238 million a year, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. 
But environmentalists, waste industry experts and government regulators say that many things have changed since New York last considered incineration as a serious option in the early 1990's. 
Like Rip Van Winkle, who emerged from a nap to find the world transformed, a new debate about incineration would take place on an altered terrain. And few doubt that the issue would be any less hard-fought. But from the rules of environmental regulation to the tactics of community opposition, and from the tarnished dreams of recycling to the concerns about the city's ability to be self-sufficient in uncertain times, just about everything else can be divided into columns of then -- a decade ago -- and now.
Back then, emissions from trash-burning plants, especially things like dioxins and mercury, prompted the most objections. Now, since new tighter federal regulations were imposed in the 1990's, the plants are far cleaner, state and federal regulators say. But the additional pollution-control technology is expensive, and many plants across the country have closed. The number of incinerators fell to 97 as of last year from a high of 150 in 1993, according to Governmental Advisory Associates, a research and consulting firm in Westport, Conn. 
Back then, city sanitation officials hoped that recycling would become a pillar of long-term disposal plans, making New York less dependent on things like landfills or incinerators. In 1992, for example, the City Council projected that recycling would divert 42 percent of the city's trash by the turn of the century. Now, with New York struggling to reach even a 20 percent diversion rate, Mr. Bloomberg has proposed cutting the program nearly in half to save money. Less recycling means more garbage that must be buried or burned.
Back then, New York's energy market was a regulated monopoly and there was little concern about long-term electricity supply. Now, with uncertain deregulated energy markets, some experts say that generating megawatts from trash could find new appeal.
Back then, the overarching environmental issue of garbage in New York was the festering landfill at Fresh Kills in Staten Island, which was closed last year. Now the questions are more diffuse and so are the environmental tradeoffs. Some environmentalists say that the vast fleets of diesel trucks that rumble every day across New Jersey, taking the bulk of the city's trash to landfills in Pennsylvania and Virginia -- and burning an estimated 10 million gallons of fuel a year in the process, according to a recent report from Columbia University -- are perhaps as big an environmental insult as anything at Fresh Kills, but far harder to measure.
Back then, the politics of trash centered on the question of the betrayal of Staten Island in the 1940's, when a supposedly temporary local dump became the city's only dump. Now, issues of economic vulnerability are behind the search for new solutions -- a note that could find particular resonance in a city still recovering from the impact of terrorism and a recession. 
Exporting the city's garbage to mostly out-of-state landfills, Mr. Doherty told a City Council committee this week, makes the city dependent and defenseless, especially if Congress passes legislation allowing states to regulate garbage exports.
Mr. Bloomberg added his voice to that message yesterday.
"There are two states, Virginia and Pennsylvania, that are willing to take it," Mr. Bloomberg said, referring to the city's trash. "But they charge a lot of money." He said he agreed with Mr. Doherty, and that down the line, those states would undoubtedly raise their prices. 
Some environmentalists say that a new battle over incineration would be as hard fought as anything in the past, and that while plants may well be cleaner now, more is known about the dangers of the pollutants they do produce. Other environmentalists say they could agree to put incineration back on the table, but that the price of their support would be high.
"Could we have that discussion? The answer is yes," said James T. B. Tripp, the general counsel at Environmental Defense, a national conservation group based in New York. 
Mr. Tripp said that any serious proposal to bring back incineration would have to be directly linked to a major new commitment by the city to reducing its waste through expanded composting and recycling. Government monitoring and testing of air emissions and ash, he said, would also have to be far more ambitious than anything contemplated in the 1990's.
"If we're going to think about it, we've got to be prepared to think about everything," Mr. Tripp said.
Other environmentalists say that advocates of incineration underestimate the costs, both financial and environmental, of trash-burning technologies. New tactics of community opposition have also been sharpened since the early 1990's, especially the link between environmental protest, civil rights and racial politics, generally lumped together under the heading of environmental justice.
David Higby, the solid waste project director at Environmental Advocates, a conservation and lobbying group in Albany, said that mercury emissions, in particular, were still a problem from trash combustion, and that the trend among many municipalities was toward a zero-emissions standard for mercury, which could make finding a place for new plants almost impossible. 
"They were marginal then," Mr. Higby said, referring to the trash plants of the early 1990's. "I think we're coming to the point where they're not practical any more at all."
A study released recently by Columbia University, on the other hand, paints an opposite picture -- that the current technology for converting waste to energy, as an environmental solution, is vastly preferable to landfills. The report, by an interdepartmental group of engineers, scientists, public policy experts and others, called "Life After Fresh Kills," says that landfills almost invariably leak pollutants over time and can also produce methane, a so-called greenhouse gas that has been linked to global climate change.
Burning trash, the report says, could also reduce the state's dependence on coal for generating electricity, which would reduce pollution because trash-burning regulations are so strict. The authors of the study also offered up some political advice: don't force a plant on any community in the city or the region, but open up a system of bidding so that a community, reachable ideally by barge so that trucks would not be needed, could negotiate a package of energy rebates, tax dividends or other incentives. 
The price of those incentives might be high, but they also might be, in the age of litigation and community organization, the only means of success, the report said.
Mr. Bloomberg said on his radio show yesterday that he thought part of the problem was how a debate over incineration would be framed and reported. In representing both sides of a controversy, scientific expertise can come off sounding like just one more opinion, he said. "The trouble is, it's one person's word against another," he said, "and all of the experts that really know what they're doing may say it's clean and one guy who knows nothing stands up because they want to grandstand."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The last of New York City's incinerators, like this one on Shore Parkway in Gravesend, Brooklyn, was closed in the early 1990's. (Chris Maynard, 1993)(pg. B2) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Fewer Incinerators"Since peaking in 1993, the number of operational municipal incinerators has declined nationally. Graph tracking the number of operational municipal since 1982. (Source: Governmental Advisory Associates)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (66%); BUDGETS (61%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; AIR POLLUTION; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) JOHNSON, KIRK; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



586 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: The Soul of George W. Bush 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
About a year ago, The Economist published an article under the smirky headline "George Bush, homme serieux." The British newsweekly argued that despite the new president's apparent intellectual weightlessness, the administration had in fact come to town with some serious thinkers in its entourage and some interesting ideas on its program. There might be more to the C-student president than we expected.
 In the flush of patriotic solidarity after Sept. 11, no one questions whether Mr. Bush is a serious man, meaning resolute and full of purpose. But what, besides defending us from villains, is he about? This is not a bad moment to subject Mr. Bush's White House to an intellectual wanding. He has logged 400 days of on-the-job training. He has begun to trust his own instincts more. And he has, by virtue of the terrorist threat, acquired the political standing to get away with saying what he really thinks. So is there an emergent Bush philosophy that suggests what we might expect for the remainder of his presidency? 
 I think there is, and it is very different from what many on the right and left expected, although it is easy to miss for three reasons. 
The first, of course, is the war on terror, which consumes Mr. Bush, defining him in some ways but obscuring him in others by overshadowing everything else on his agenda.
The second is that, to put it generously, Mr. Bush is not himself an intellectual. The sometimes skillful work of his speechwriters, which he sometimes delivers with conviction, cannot disguise the fact that he is not a deep thinker, a student of ideas, or even a very curious man. For all the spoon-fed portraits of the president exuding new gravitas since the war began, President Bush is still an easy man to take lightly.
Another confounding factor is the administration's extraordinary discipline in the cause of political longevity. This is a president who has no intention of dying the one-term political death of his father, even if that means selling out principles from time to time. Free-traders, who thought they had Mr. Bush's allegiance, are horrified by his imposition of tariffs on imported steel, for example, a naked move to shore up Republican support in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. And a few conservatives swallowed their gum when they heard of the president's performance at the annual Gridiron dinner. Teasing Senator Tom Daschle about his presidential ambitions, Mr. Bush joked (or not): "What are you going to run on, Tom? Patients' bill of rights? I'm for it. Enron? I'm against it. Campaign reform? I'll sign it. Child care? Tom, I'm gonna expand child care to those who don't even have children."
Leave aside style and political expediency, and what is left at the core? On the theory that it takes one to know one, I spent a few days talking to right-of-center thinkers from various camps. Whether or not you share their ideology, their sense of the president is often shrewd and well informed, and it is remarkably consistent across the right wingspan.
To begin with, Mr. Bush is emphatically not from the libertarian school of conservative thinking. A year ago, at libertarian strongholds like the Cato Institute -- which favors minimalist government, a non-interventionist foreign policy and free markets -- hopes flickered that Mr. Bush might be the first true leave-us-alone president. They loved the big tax cut, on the principle that cutting off the oxygen of taxes is the most reliable way to cripple government. But the libertarians have grown deeply disenchanted. It turns out that Mr. Bush is an activist, deficit-spending, interventionist president.
Early on, the president's determination to expand the federal role in education hinted at this. Now the war at home and abroad has demanded big budgets, which Mr. Bush has allowed to become a pretext for copious pork-barrel spending in the guise of "stimulus." The president's instinctive readiness to curtail civil liberties was another wartime cause of libertarian alarm. Abroad, the man who as a candidate advocated "humility" in our dealings with the world has developed a passion for upending foreign governments and rebuilding damaged nations.
Nor can Mr. Bush be claimed by the culture warriors of the Christian right, although he gave them John Ashcroft and occasionally throws them a steak. The president is not a bigot, or a pessimist. He created an office to promote faith-based social services, but has let it languish.
He is not quite a classic big-business conservative, either, although he and corporate America vibrate to the same tuning fork and he has stocked his administration with former C.E.O.'s. He is reflexively pro-development, and he regards environmentalists as whinging elitists.
But Mr. Bush brings something to the job that makes country-club conservatives quiver with unease. He is a moralist. I think this was true before Sept. 11, but the attacks have galvanized his inner missionary. More precisely, Sept. 11 confirmed for him that God had chosen him for a purpose, and showed him what that purpose is.
On the domestic front, his moral streak is summed up in his persistent rhetoric about "a new culture of responsibility." Remember that Mr. Bush is a convert -- from alcohol and wild living to God and domesticity -- and he has a convert's faith that anyone else can do likewise. Although his faith is Christian, this is a moral outlook that sits comfortably with Jewish and secular conservatives. 
Look at his tough-standards education program, and especially at his new proposals to escalate the assault on welfare, and you see a Republican who is troubled by the legions of poor and prospectless but believes that what the government should offer them is self-reliance, a prosperous economy in which they can find a place, and a sermon about premarital sex. He proposes to add $300 million to the budget to, somehow, push unwed mothers into marriage, but nothing for day care so that single mothers can get to their mandatory jobs. If you've been wondering what "compassionate conservative" means, there you have it. It is not the liberal safety net or the noblesse oblige of the first President Bush, but the compassion of the strict parent who says, "This is for your own good." Or the drill sergeant who says, "Suck it up!"
"The message is a moral message: Let's cut the victimology, this is the land of opportunity," said Myron Magnet, editor of the neoconservative magazine City Journal and an early Bush policy tutor. "Of course everyone can succeed. The bars to success are now much more internal than external."
Mr. Bush's moralism is more ambitious, sometimes verging on messianic, when it comes to the world beyond our borders. It is encapsulated in two bits of presidential oratory that were widely written off as careless rhetorical flourishes -- the glib "axis of evil" and the Islam-offending description of America's "crusade," which the White House later retracted. Read Mr. Bush's lips, and he seems deeply convinced that America's great project is to combat evil and implant what he calls "universal values" throughout the world. Foreign policy is not just about defending oilfields.
In the tug of war between the go-get-'em, nuke-brandishing civilians of the Pentagon and the coalition-minded pragmatists of the State Department, conservatives are now convinced Mr. Bush's sympathies are gung-ho. The Weekly Standard, which has overcome personal strains with Mr. Bush to become something like the president's conservative superego, has taken to calling this "The Bush Doctrine."
"On tactics, he may be listening to Colin Powell," said Norman Podhoretz, the influential conservative editor and author. "But he's very clear as to his strategic objectives -- not just to clean up Al Qaeda cells but to effect regime changes in six or seven countries and to create conditions which would lead to internal reform and modernization in the Islamic world."
Whether the president will, in the end, take us to a multitude of wars in the cause of liberating the world from evil, or whether the mission will lose some of its energy when the cost (literal and political) grows, I can't tell. But I think Mr. Podhoretz correctly reads the president's heart. 
If you were hoping for the right-of-center moderate Mr. Bush campaigned as, or if you shared the patronizing view of the president as a good-natured boob tugged along by avuncular ideologues, this may strike you as chilling. But have no doubt, it is tres serieux.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (54%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); TOM DASCHLE (77%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KELLER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



587 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Mideast Talks Continue; New Attack in West Bank
Israeli negotiators, urged on by the Bush administration, met again with Palestinian officials but could not reach agreement on a truce. Talks are to resume over the weekend, despite another suicide bombing, which wounded an Israeli soldier. President Bush said a meeting between Vice President Dick Cheney and Yasir Arafat could still take place but only if the Palestinian leader cracked down on violence by militants. A1

Leaders of a Palestinian group that took responsibility for a suicide bombing in Jerusalem on Thursday said their being included on Washington's list of terror groups would lead them to carry out more attacks. A6

Bush Proposes Aid Conditions
President Bush, at an international gathering in Mexico, called for a "new compact" for global development by insisting that rich nations give foreign aid to poor one but only if they undertook certain reforms. A7

Germany Acts on Immigration
Parliament passed a measure that would open the gates to greater numbers of foreign workers. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A8-9

U.S. Says Afghan Lab Was Intended for Bioterror
The United States has found a laboratory under construction near Kandahar where American officials believe Al Qaeda planned to develop biological agents, specifically anthrax. A1

Hijacker May Have Had Anthrax
A Florida doctor said he treated one of the Sept. 11 hijackers for an infection in June that upon review he now believes was cutaneous anthrax. A9

Pakistan Leader Wants to Stay
Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who seized power in a 1999 coup, plans to stay in power for at least five more years by holding a referendum on the matter, probably in May, say politicians who have discussed the plan with him. A8

U.S. Embassy Closes in Bosnia
The American Embassy in Sarajevo is closed "until further notice," a spokeswoman said, citing an unspecified threat. A8

NATIONAL A10-13

Senate Prospects Improve For Election Overhaul Bill
Senate negotiators said they had reached agreement on a bill to overhaul the nation's election procedures, clearing the way for full Senate approval soon after Congress reconvenes in two weeks. A12

Democrats Faulted on Donation
Republican Party officials said it was hypocritical for the Democratic Party to accept $12 million in soft money from two donors to build a new headquarters as the party pressed legislation to ban such gifts. A13

Price of Postage Going Up
The cost of sending a first-class letter will increase this summer by 3 cents, to 37 cents, part of a broad postal rate increase approved by the Postal Rate Commission. A11

Navy Wants to Join the Marines
The Navy is proposing to combine its two major fighter-jet programs with that of the Marine Corps, allowing the two services to cut planned purchases sharply, officials said. A12

Pentagon Breaks With Advisers
The Pentagon severed ties with a secretive advisory panel of elite scientists, called Jason, leading to accusations that the country is blunting its ability to deal with increasingly sophisticated terrorists. A12

4 Dead in Extortion Case
Officials identified remains of four well-to-do Russian immigrants pulled from a California reservoir who they believe were targets of a gang of Russian kidnappers and extortionists. Six suspects are in custody, though none are charged with murder. A10

Mutiny in the Pacific
The authorities in Honolulu accused a Chinese seaman of killing his captain and first mate and taking over a 195-foot Taiwanese fishing vessel southeast of Hawaii. A11

Beliefs A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

As Options Shrink, City Reconsiders Incineration
Mayor Bloomberg indicated that the city would be willing to consider incineration as an option for disposing of garbage, saying improvements in technology had made the idea worthy of reconsideration. A1

Bishop Addresses Abuse Cases
The Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn, Thomas V. Daily, issued a mea culpa for his actions during service in Boston when a pedophile priest was shuffled from parish to parish. Bishop Daily, acknowledging the pain caused by such sexual abuse, also said he would re-examine both past cases and current policy in the Brooklyn Diocese. B6

False Alarm at La Guardia
Concern that people accompanying a disabled passenger had not been properly screened prompted officials to halt Delta and Northwest departures and recall planes taxiing for takeoff from Terminal D so that all passengers could be rescreened. B1

Homicide Suspect Escapes
A suspect in a double homicide in December and a double shooting this month, Alexis Vasquez, 22, escaped from the 88th precinct house in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, the police said. The police are conducting a citywide manhunt for him. B3

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A18

EDUCATION

Board to Overhaul SAT
The College Board plans to revamp the main SAT test, acknowledging that it is doing so partly in response to criticism that the test does not fully reflect what is learned in class. A10

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

A Plan to Save Andersen
Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, proposed that the government drop its criminal case against Arthur Andersen and allow him to put a new oversight board in charge of the accounting firm. The Justice Department said more than reform would be required. A1

U.S. Spending Prods Economy
An unplanned rise in government spending surpassed levels envisioned in the economic stimulus measure that failed to get through Congress, helping to explain why the recession has been mild and may be ending. A1

Europe Plans Tariff Response
The European Union has drawn up a list of $2.1 billion in American imports to penalize in retaliation for Washington's imposition of tariffs of up to 30 percent on imported steel. C1

Ovitz Unit Losing Big Backer
Canal Plus, the major investor in Artists Production Group, the film unit of Michael Ovitz's Hollywood management company, is withdrawing from their joint venture agreement, putting the unit's future in doubt. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A bias toward waste; Mr. Bush looks south; protecting the bench from politics; the wrong way to remember Sept. 11.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B15
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HIJACKING (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POSTAL RATES (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); COUPS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (71%); REFERENDUMS (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



588 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Mexico Relations: Alliance Meets Boundaries 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 22 

 BODY:
In the courtship between President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico, images seem so convincing.
 At their third meeting in 13 months, Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox still walk casually together like friends and banter in English and Spanish like friends. Mr. Bush still says no nation is more important to the United States than this one, and Mr. Fox still spins visions of opening the border to a freer flow of immigrants. 
 But now, the relationship seems high on concept, low on content. Mexico's exalted position on the American list of allies has stirred imaginations but has so far deflated expectations.
The meeting today was billed as a fresh start on an ambitious Mexican agenda that American officials said had been sidelined six months ago by the terrorist attacks. Mr. Fox arrived here hoping for concrete progress on goals including immigration reforms that would legalize some 3.5 million undocumented Mexicans in the United States and expand guest worker programs.
Indeed, the two presidents announced new plans today for modernizing security measures along their 2,000-mile border and a series of joint public-private partnerships aimed at stimulating private investments in areas of Mexico with high immigration rates.
Mexico's rich neighbor has committed more than $1 billion in new money to United States agencies that manage the border. But United States officials did not say how much of that money would go to Mexico.
Light-years away from a general amnesty, the United States Senate has still not voted on a bill that would allow undocumented immigrants to stay in the United States while applying for permanent residency. Mr. Fox's campaign for open borders has turned into an effort to make the border more secure.
The limited progress has raised concerns that there is more than terrorism undermining Mr.Fox's bilateral agenda. With or without the terrorist strikes, some analysts say, the agenda was doomed to hit the wall of American politics. Mr. Fox, a former corporate executive, has come to understand that as president, he may be able to set agendas, but the forces of open government will define the timeline. 
"The relationship was as virtual before Sept. 11 as it is now," said Jorge Montano, a former Mexican ambassador to the United States. "But the terrorist attacks gave President Fox an excuse for not achieving his promises. Now he's having to accept that his friendship with President Bush has great limitations."
Another former Mexican ambassador, Andres Rozental, was more optimistic. "I don't think President Fox has given up on the U.S. relationship," he said. "I think simply that reality is setting in that this is going to be a long haul. The issues are more complicated than ever, but they are still on the agenda."
The links in the United States-Mexico relationship, have been built largely on the visions of Mr. Fox, a former governor of Guanajuato, a northern Mexican state largely emptied by immigration to the United States. Mr. Fox traveled to Washington six months ago and challenged the United States to quickly adopt his goals for a safer border where immigrant crossings would be controlled more by demands for labor than law enforcement.
Calling immigration a "shared responsibility," he persuaded the United States to consider economic support for industrial development in Mexico's poorest regions. Presenting dozens of ideas about the kinds of laws, programs and amounts of money needed, Mr. Fox pressed the United States to achieve the dream by year's end.
Eduardo Sojo, chief economic adviser to Mr. Fox, said that after a series of setbacks in domestic and foreign policy, the Fox administration has learned that "political agreements have their own rhythm." Mexico's increasingly independent Congress no longer answers to the president's whims, and has stalled proposals for tax reform and Indian rights. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court ruled that it would not allow suspects to be extradited to the United States in death penalty or life imprisonment cases.
So the administration has stopped measuring progress by deadlines.
"We think that in the course of this year, or the beginning of next year, we will be able to achieve a lot that was on our agenda with the United States," said Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda. "Either we will have achieved specific results, or we will have moved forward on the negotiations or we will have conceptually identified strategies and begun to move forward on them." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); AMNESTY (76%); REFUGEES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) THOMPSON, GINGER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



589 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in Monterrey, Speaks of Conditional Global Aid 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 22 

 BODY:
President Bush called today for a "new compact" for global development by insisting that rich nations give foreign aid to poor nations only if poor nations undertake a broad range of political, legal and economic reforms.
 "Pouring money into a failed status quo does little to help the poor, and can actually delay the progress of reform," Mr. Bush told the presidents and prime ministers of 50 nations gathered here for a conference on global aid to the developing world. "We must accept a higher, more difficult, more promising call." 
 Mr. Bush spoke on the closing day of the conference, when 171 nations signed the "Monterrey Consensus," an accord committing them to the goals of doubling development aid to the poor and halving world poverty by 2015.
Tonight, in a wide-ranging news conference, the president said no decision had been made on whether to begin a new round of drug interdiction flights over Peru. The flights, in which Peruvian fighter planes force down or shoot down suspected drug flights, were suspended last year when a plane carrying American missionaries was mistakenly shot down.
"We're analyzing not only what took place in the past, but the most effective way help Peru fight narcotics," he said. Mr. Bush will travel to Peru on Saturday.
The president also tried to lay to rest talk that Fidel Castro's abrupt departure from the conference on Thursday was the result of pressure from the United States.
Mr. Bush said there was "no pressure on anybody. Fidel Castro can do what he wants to do."
In his talk today, the president reiterated a promise of a 50 percent increase in American foreign aid over three years, and added that some money might be available as early as this year -- a counter to complaints from development agencies that the United States was moving too slowly in its new foreign aid commitments.
Mr. Bush's pledge meant that the total American foreign aid budget, if approved by Congress, would be $15 billion by 2006. The current American foreign aid budget is $10 billion.
Although Mr. Bush's pledge of aid fell short of the goals of the conference, the American commitment -- along with a promise of $4 billion more per year from the European Union -- was considered the most important developments of Monterrey, and proved, development experts said, that poor nations could exert powerful pressure on the richest nation in the world, particularly when the United States was asking many nations for help in the fight against terrorism. Mr. Bush's pledge of aid, which he first announced in a speech last week in Washington, was considered an abrupt change in Bush administration policy.
"It's a shift in political attitude that is very important," said Jorge G. Castaneda, Mexico's foreign minister. Mr. Bush, Mr. Castaneda added, clearly did not want to come to Monterrey "without anything to propose, without anything to put on the table."
Mr. Bush said that he would "jump start" his new aid program to make some funding available to nations that meet American standards of reform within the next year. Last week, development agencies had criticized him for delaying the start of the aid increase until 2004. 
But Congress must first approve that money, and the Bush administration must also develop the specific standards for economic, political and legal reform, making it unclear how much new money will actually flow from the United States to poor nations this year. Mr. Bush has given the task of developing those standards to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Secretary of the Treasury Paul H. O'Neill, who this week in Monterrey expressed considerable skepticism about foreign aid. 
"If we are going to have real economic development in the world, most of that will come from capital coming into those countries to create jobs," Mr. O'Neill said. "We are not going to do it with welfare."
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, called Mr. Bush's move to speed up the aid an "indication by the president to do a little more, a little earlier." Mr. Fleischer said that the White House had no specific number in mind, but that it might be "a couple hundred million." Adding additional aid this year would not be part of the president's proposal for a 50 percent increase, he said.
Under that proposal, the foreign aid budget would grow by $1.7 billion in 2004, by $3.3 billion in 2005 and by $5 billion in 2006. Taken together, that would amount to a $10 billion increase in the foreign aid budget over three years. But Mr. Bush, sounding a similar but more diplomatic call than his treasury secretary, said that trade and foreign investment were far more important to the economic health of a poor nation than any level of foreign aid.
"All of us here must focus on real benefits to the poor, instead of debating arbitrary levels of inputs from the rich," Mr. Bush said in his speech at the Monterrey International Business Center. He added that "to be serious about fighting poverty, we must be serious about expanding trade."
Mr. Bush, as he has before, linked development aid to the fight against terrorism and also cast it in terms of religious and moral obligations.
"We fight against poverty because hope is an answer to terror," Mr. Bush said. "We fight against poverty because opportunity is a fundamental right to human dignity. We fight against poverty because faith requires it and conscience demands it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, speaking at a conference on the developing world in Monterrey, Mexico, promised more aid. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); DRUG INTERDICTION (67%); APPROVALS (63%); TERRORISM (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%) MONTERREY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002 



590 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: From 'I Do' to 'I Don't' 

BYLINE:  By Patricia Cohen; Patricia Cohen is the editor of the Arts & Ideas pages of The Times.

 BODY:
 THE MARRIAGE PROBLEM
How Our Culture
Has Weakened Families.
By James Q. Wilson.
274 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $25.95.
 In the 1970 movie "Lovers and other Strangers," Beatrice and Frank are sitting at the wedding of one son, trying to persuade their other son and his wife not to get divorced. Look at "Anthony and Anita -- cheek to cheek," Frank tells them. "Did you know that Anthony has not said one word to Anita for two years?" "But they're still together," Beatrice declares. 
In the more than 30 years since the movie's release, staying together, or, more precisely, staying married, has gone from a punch line to a national crisis. The decline in marriage, the rise in divorce and most of all the astounding number of babies born out of wedlock -- one-third of all births -- have unsettled religious conservatives, child welfare advocates, scholars, politicians and others. Even those who don't agree on the cause agree on the results: children who grow up with only one parent are more likely to be poor, drop out of school, have emotional problems and commit crimes.
These trends have precipitated a movement -- a marriage movement -- that has gained adherents in the statehouse and the White House. Oklahoma offers training courses on marriage and relationship skills; Louisiana offers a "covenant marriage," which requires premarital counseling and makes it tougher to get a divorce. And just last month, President Bush made strengthening marriages a centerpiece of his welfare plan, promising $300 million to finance experimental programs that teach the benefits of marriage and offer premarital counseling. 
Now James Q. Wilson, one of the most influential conservative thinkers around, who is best known for his work on crime prevention, has taken up the cause in "The Marriage Problem." He has outsize ambitions for this short volume: to review the research on marriage, divorce and children; to recount the biological, social, economic, political and cultural history of marriage and family life; and to offer policy recommendations.
That's a tall order for anyone, and the result is a book that careers from nuanced readings of social science research to silly generalizations based on pop opinion polls and episodes of "Sex and the City," from refreshing insights about our culture to none-too-subtle attacks on women's equality. 
To Wilson, the erosion of marriage is eating away at society's foundations. More than anything else, it is responsible for the poor, troubled and wretched corners of America. He offers a sobering look at the vast array of research on poverty and single-parent households. Being poor exacts a terrible toll. But rich or poor, white or black, children raised by one parent, whether divorced or never married, tend to have a tougher time. 
And it's not just the children who are worse off. Surveys have repeatedly shown that people who say "I do" are on the whole happier, healthier and wealthier than those who don't. So why don't people do what is obviously in their own best interest? 
To answer that question, Wilson recounts the familiar arguments of the evolutionary psychologists about men being biologically programmed to have sex with as many women as they can. Women, meanwhile, are geared toward finding a reliable provider for their children (never mind that giving birth and liking sex are not mutually exclusive activities). Wilson also says the marriage marketplace is out of whack: the fact that there are not enough stable, employed men to go around makes the desirable hunks even less likely to hook up with only one woman and shoulder the duties of a family.
More refreshing is Wilson's capsule history of marriage, which includes interesting tidbits like the 17th-century interest in liberalizing divorce. John Milton (who abandoned his wife a month after their marriage) and John Locke both believed that unhappy couples should be able to separate at will. Wilson also traces the changes in child welfare policy, showing how government assistance, once limited to the "suitable homes" of widows and abandoned wives, was eventually extended to unmarried women.
He is careful, though, not to dump the whole problem on welfare's doorstep. (He thinks the fact that unmarried motherhood is no longer shameful plays a bigger role than government checks in encouraging single women to have children.) And for once the 60's -- the favorite bugaboo of conservatives -- aren't blamed. "It would be remarkable if an institution as old and as universal as marriage could prove so vulnerable to one decade of cultural change," he says. Instead, he argues that one of the West's greatest achievements -- the Enlightenment -- and one of its greatest shames -- slavery -- are jointly responsible for the weakening of the family. 
Slavery, "that vast, cruel system of organized repression that denied to slaves the right to marry, vote, sue or take an oath" and "allowed their own children to be sold on the slave block," grievously injured family life, Wilson persuasively writes, countering critics who deny the connection. Certainly it is at least part of the explanation for why nearly 70 percent of African-American babies are born to single mothers, compared with 22 percent of white infants. 
Meanwhile, the glorious intellectual, scientific and personal liberation ushered in by the Enlightenment unhinged marriage from its traditional social moorings and turned it into a mere contract -- like any business agreement. What the Supreme Court called a "sacred obligation" in the 19th century was referred to as "an association of two individuals" by 1965.
The Enlightenment also opened the way for the emancipation of women, which Wilson calls the "single core event" underlying the questioning of marriage. Women were no longer forced to rely on men to provide them with a home or social status. Many finally had the financial and emotional wherewithal to leave abusive or neglectful relationships. 
But along with the dead-on insights are some batty assumptions and curious lapses. Why, for instance, does Wilson omit the work of E. Mavis Hetherington, one of the field's most respected researchers, who recently argued that the ill effects of divorce on children are not nearly as long-lasting as many feared? Why does he dabble in tinhorn biology to claim that men are better at climbing the corporate ladder and more likely to work longer hours because he-man aggressiveness was once an evolutionary advantage? Or declare that a mother wonders whom the baby resembles, while a father "suspects that the infant looks like -- well, a baby"? (Unless he's been watching one too many stand-up routines on Comedy Central.) 
And what about his portrayal of "career women" as bitter, frustrated spinsters, whose only boyfriends are likely to be married men or weirdos? Those who do marry, he adds, have a good chance of ending up divorced. (Not sure how I'll break this one to my husband.) No wonder women are often suspicious that calls to return to the traditional family cloak a desire to return them to second-class status. 
Of course the marriage debate isn't just about economic incentives and social policy but about values. Is living together immoral? Is having children outside marriage? Absolutely, Wilson says. Everyone wants to help children, but we should do it by encouraging marriage from the ground up, not by easing the burden on unmarried parents. Shame single women who get pregnant and clamp down on assistance to unwed mothers. He even suggests that sending fatherless children to orphanages might be better than giving aid to unmarried mothers -- once known as "morally unfit." In the end, though, government can do only so much. The "effort must be done retail, not wholesale, by families and churches and neighborhoods and the media, not by tax breaks or government subsidies."
Such views will not warm everyone's heart. Even hard-core welfare critics are likely to blanch at the notion of bringing back orphanages. Abusive fathers, not to mention uncaring, unconcerned ones, are as much (if not more) trouble inside a marriage as out. That's no reason for Wilson to shrink from his opinions. But his ideological slant will narrow the book's audience, which is too bad, because there is a lot here -- from his analysis of certain trends to his ideas of what to do about them -- that would persuade many people on the left and the right. Instead, the book can be too easily labeled as another volley in the culture war, rallying like-minded readers, alienating others and having about as much staying power as some of today's marriages. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LITERATURE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); TRENDS (74%); HISTORY (73%); WOMEN (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); PARENTS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (68%); SCIENCE FUNDING (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); CHILD WELFARE (67%); CRIME PREVENTION (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) COHEN, PATRICIA; WILSON, JAMES Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARRIAGE PROBLEM, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



591 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks 

BYLINE:  By Scott Veale

 BODY:
 THE GARDENS OF KYOTO, by Kate Walbert. (Scribner, $13.) The middle-aged narrator of this elusive first novel recalls her coming of age in the 1950's, moving back and forth between America, Japan and Paris as she reconstructs her past in a way that is emotionally honest even as she withholds certain darker facts and violent episodes. Last year in the Book Review, Alida Becker admired the tale's "understated power," which "is expressed not only in quietly wrenching scenes . . . but in its narrator's wistful asides."

DOGS AND DEMONS: Tales From the Dark Side of Japan, by Alex Kerr. (Hill & Wang, $15.) A longtime resident of Japan catalogs what he perceives to be the many social, environmental and political dysfunctions of a declining, culturally empty nation that has been cursed by its own success. Even if he overstates his case, his "important and oddly romantic" book is "packed . . . with lucid observations," Richard J. Samuels wrote here in 2001.

A FEW CORRECTIONS, by Brad Leithauser. (Vintage Contemporaries, $13.) In this clever novel, the obituary of a charming salesman is unraveled and revised by his son, who finds that his father's normal-sounding life was actually messy, painful and secretive. "Leithauser's story . . . has bite and humor and sadness -- like the mixed bag that is real life," Adam Begley said here last year.

STET: A Memoir, by Diana Athill. (Grove, $13.) The doyenne of English book editors looks back on her long career at Andre Deutsch, the distinguished publishing house whose authors included V. S. Naipaul, Mordecai Richler and Jean Rhys, and laments the changing economic forces that have plagued small independent publishers like hers. "Athill never moralizes, but she observes everything and everyone (including herself) with almost painful honesty," Evelyn Toynton wrote in these pages in 2001. Her account is "wryly humorous" and "notable for its extraordinary lucidity."

CAUSE CELEB, by Helen Fielding. (Penguin, $13.) In her first novel, published in 1994 (well before "Bridget Jones's Diary") but only released in the United States in 2001, Fielding orchestrates a tragicomic clash between do-gooders doing good in Africa -- mainly a plucky Bridget-like Londoner -- and pop stars with a highly fickle commitment to social justice. Our reviewer, Maggie Galehouse, called this "a serious story that doesn't take itself too seriously" and "a wonderful surprise."

NOTES FROM THE HYENA'S BELLY: An Ethiopian Boyhood, by Nega Mezlekia. (Picador USA, $14.) The author, an Ethiopian who fled to Canada in 1983, describes the famine, violence and feudal cruelties that defined his childhood, and his decision as a teenager to join a guerrilla army during a convulsive moment in his nation's history. "Mezlekia has summoned, with imaginative directness and impressive tonal range, a world of uncertainty in which politics is never just background but permeates ordinary life," Rob Nixon wrote here in 2001.

KILLING DRAGONS: The Conquest of the Alps, by Fergus Fleming. (Grove, $14.) This history of the exploration of the Alps employs a droll, detached tone of amusement as it recounts the follies, eccentricities and triumphs of mountaineers through the ages. "Combing books, articles, letters and journals going back to the 16th century," the author continually "holds up mirrors to our own times -- our obsession with adventure, altitude and risk," Elizabeth Hightower wrote here last year.

THE VIRTUOSO, by Margriet de Moor. (Overlook, $13.95.) Set in 18th-century Naples, this Dutch work of fiction revolves around a love affair between a castrato whose singing leaves his listeners in tears and a young noblewoman eager for instruction in both sex and music. In 2000 our reviewer, Julie Gray, called this a "resplendent novel" that is filled with "just the right amount of political and historical detail."

TROUBLING CONFESSIONS: Speaking Guilt in Law and Literature, by Peter Brooks. (University of Chicago, $15.) In this study of confession and its uses, the author traces the development of the concept of the self through the ages and the role that the act of confession has played in its formation. The result is "a book of questing and questioning," a work of "graceful erudition" that is "rich in fresh ideas," Richard Lourie wrote here in 2000. Scott Veale

GRAPHIC: Photos (Rachel Morton; Jerry Bauer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); CELEBRITIES (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



592 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 7464 words

HEADLINE: To Be Young and Homeless 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Egan; Jennifer Egan is a frequent contributor to the magazine. Her most recent book, the novel "Look at Me," was a National Book Award finalist.

 BODY:
Like most people who find themselves seeking shelter at the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx, the sole portal into New York City's shelter system for homeless families, Jackie Fuller and two of her children were at the tail end of a run of extremely bad luck. Fuller, 44, had been living most recently in Brooklyn, but like many people who eventually wind up homeless, she had not resided at her last address very long or securely. She and her husband were New Yorkers who moved to Memphis in 1994, where just two years ago they had good jobs and were rearing the youngest three of Fuller's five children from her first marriage in a rented house. But Fuller missed her two adult daughters and granddaughter, so the family decided to return north. Fuller's husband came back ahead of time to set things up, but by the time Fuller arrived, he had lost a lucrative bridge-painting job and had had an affair with another woman. The marriage collapsed. 
 Fuller and her three youngest moved in with Fuller's two grown daughters and granddaughter in the East New York section of Brooklyn -- seven of them sharing a small two-bedroom apartment -- while Fuller frantically looked for work. She began interviewing on Wall Street, where she'd received and delivered government bonds for 17 years before leaving the city, but no offers came. While she waited, she tried peddling bath towels at a flea market and audited a course in Web design. After Sept. 11, the interviews virtually ceased. Meanwhile, the landlord of the Brooklyn apartment objected to the overcrowding and set a deadline of Jan. 1 for the newcomers to move out. 
 On Jan. 14, Fuller and her two youngest children, Shanna, 16, and Darian, 12, set out for the Bronx, hauling their three suitcases to the Emergency Assistance Unit, or E.A.U., as it is commonly known. (Her middle son, who is 20, moved in with another relative.) "We thought there wouldn't be any kids," Shanna told me later, referring to the E.A.U., "but there were a whole lot!" 
A sturdy, ebullient teenager with a penchant for pink accessories, Shanna had gotten the lowdown on the shelter system from her best friend, whose family was homeless a couple of years ago. But Shanna stopped short of telling her new boyfriend, a college freshman, of her predicament. "You don't know if you can trust him yet or whether he'll put your business out on the street," she explained. "I told him I might be living with my aunt because she's lonely, but I didn't give him a specific location. I talked to him from the E.A.U. and he said, 'It's loud!' and I said, 'Those are my baby cousins crying and crying."'
Her younger brother, Darian, had been machinating for weeks so that no one in his seventh-grade class, where he's known as a jokester, would ever suspect he'd become homeless. "I'm slick," he explained. "I told them my mother has a real job, but she sells towels when she's not working to get some extra money because we're moving. You know, to kind of smooth it over."
Reporters aren't allowed inside the E.A.U. or even near its doors, but I did manage a brief visit inside the one-story brick building early this past winter. A series of windowless rooms, it has the bright, 24-hour feel of a casino. The place is crammed with children, just as Shanna said; every member of each family must be present in order for that family's case to move forward. There is a low din of crying and coughing, but I found the atmosphere weirdly hushed. Families sat or napped on long plastic putty-colored benches. Portable cribs were scattered around, many with older children folded inside them. Occasionally a family whose belongings included a TV or a video game would plug it into a wall socket, and then whole tides of children would surge over to watch. 
On their first night as a homeless family, Fuller and her children boarded a school bus to East Tremont Avenue in the Bronx, one of several locations where the city provides overnight beds to those families still in the application process. The next day she was interviewed by the Eligibility Investigation Unit. New York is unique among American cities in that, by consent decree and subsequent court orders, it must provide shelter to every homeless person or family that requests it. But beginning in the 1990's with the Giuliani administration, proving one's homelessness became a notoriously arduous task. Today, each applicant must provide a two-year housing history so that investigators can visit all prior residences and decide for themselves whether the family has other housing alternatives. If the investigators deem that alternatives exist, the family becomes ineligible for shelter and must leave the system immediately (though families may reapply). If granted eligibility for shelter, the family is ultimately placed in what is known as a transitional, or Tier II, housing facility run by a not-for-profit corporation under contract to provide an array of services -- counseling, job training, housing assistance -- to help the family "transition" into permanent housing.
While the city conducts its investigations, the family is placed in "conditional shelter," usually for 10 days. This housing may be either a room or rooms in a privately owned hotel or one of about 1,300 apartments the city has begun renting to catch the overflow of families from the hotels. Fuller, Shanna and Darian ended up in a small studio in a run-down building on Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn, where they shared two single beds pushed together, arguing over who had to lie along the crack. (Modest, yes, but consider the fact that in Chicago, a mere 6,000 shelter beds exist to accommodate a nightly homeless population of 15,000 to 20,000, nearly half of whom are families with children. The majority are left to sleep in cars and abandoned buildings, even in winter, according to John Donahue, executive director of the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless.)
"It's small, but it's neat," Fuller told me, sitting at a small kitchen table five days into her stay. She's soft-spoken but an easy talker. Her children adore her. As we sat, Darian absently fingered his mother's gold earring and ran his hand through her hair. He's an ungainly youth, sweet-tempered, but he was grumpy about his new circumstances. He ruminated obsessively over his hair, which he likes to keep braided. He missed playing video games on the family TV set with surround-sound, still in storage in Memphis. He missed being able to walk outside and play basketball. Now he can't walk anywhere; a single key existed to the apartment -- Fuller isn't wasting money on copies when the family may be out within the week -- so everyone's entrances and exits had to be coordinated. Darian paced and moped in the tiny space, peering out the window and occasionally repairing to the narrow fifth-floor hallway, where he practiced boxing moves.
As for Shanna, she was determined not to let homelessness impinge on her life as an extremely popular high-school junior. She woke up at 5 a.m. and left the apartment at 6, taking three subway trains followed by a bus ride -- a two-hour odyssey to her school. Both her brother and her mother marveled at her resolute good cheer, but the grueling commute was taking a toll. While we were talking that night, Shanna lay back on the bed and was abruptly asleep, fully clothed. 
"Disaster kept striking little by little," Fuller said, still stunned by the turn in her fortunes. "This has to be the bottom."
Fuller and her kids were joining a skyrocketing population of homeless families in New York City. An average of nearly 32,000 people slept in shelters each night last month, up by 23 percent from a year ago -- the largest one-year increase in the city's shelter history, and possibly since the Great Depression. That number far exceeds the previous high of 28,737 in 1987 -- despite the fact that the number of single homeless people has actually dropped in that time by more than 3,000. Today, families make up 75 percent of New York's homeless-shelter population, with more than 13,000 children having slept in city shelters and temporary apartments most nights this winter. 
The root causes of what is called chronic homelessness -- the adults drifting perpetually among shelters and haunting the nation's downtowns -- are held to be mentall illness and substance abuse, but the chronic homeless constitute only 10 percent of the total shelter population, and children, obviously, don't fall within their ranks. A typical homeless child is under 5 years old, very poor and living with a sibling and a single mother. The mother may well lack the education or job skills to lift her out of poverty; often, she has been the victim of domestic violence. Compounding such children's precarious circumstances are two long-term economic trends: stagnant or falling wages coupled with a rise in housing prices. Ultimately, these children are the youngest members of troubled families too cash-strapped to afford a place to lay their heads. In an era regarded as generally prosperous, the numbers are staggering: between 900,000 and 1.4 million children in America are homeless for a time in a given year. Most of them are homeless only once, and for months, not years. And while the impact of homelessness on these children is difficult to distinguish from the many other hardships of poverty, there is evidence that homeless children have more health problems, more hospitalizations and more developmental problems than poor children who have never been homeless. Homeless children are more likely to wind up separated from their parents for periods, either with other relatives or in foster care. Children who experience homelessness are also more likely to become homeless as adults. 
Because these children are not sleeping in parks or begging on subways, the fact of their homelessness is largely invisible -- outside the context of a homeless shelter, they just look like children. And while I did meet families in New York who said they'd ridden subways overnight with their very young kids or slept outdoors with teenagers, these parents were taking a big risk -- failing to provide adequate shelter for one's children can result in having them removed from one's care by the Administration for Children's Services, New York City's child welfare agency. Yet because we don't see homeless kids asleep in our streets -- and because the shelters and residences they shuttle in and out of tend to be in the city's poorer neighborhoods -- their plight has not provoked the outcry that the rise in homelessness did in the 1980's. Nevertheless, these children make up 40 percent of the nation's homeless population, and for the time they remain without homes, and for who knows how long after, homelessness is the defining fact of their lives. 
The emergency assistance unit is situated on what I'm convinced is the coldest street corner in New York City, at 151st Street just off the Grand Concourse. For many nights and days this past winter I stood on that corner in a riptide of winds, watching young, mostly black and Hispanic women (and occasionally men), shepherd their children into and out of a set of gray metal doors. They arrive with suitcases and duffel bags and shopping carts, with blankets and Barbies and television sets. When families are too stir-crazy to sit inside another minute, they get temporary passes to come outside and smoke or drink coffee. Children beg their parents for candy at the R&A Deli-Grocery, across the street, the E.A.U.'s de facto commissary (food is served within, but it is notoriously awful), then eat it in the cold while their parents swap stories. A portion of families at the E.A.U. are first-time applicants, but most of them say they are reapplying after having been deemed ineligible, often several times, and the mood of paranoia is intense. Wild rumors abound: how investigators told an applicant to put her children to bed in a bathtub; how the E.A.U. is paid each time it denies a family eligibility (not true). 
The kids tend to tune out these harangues -- the youngest play, while the older ones stare resolutely into space. Children in and around the E.A.U. are accustomed to the uncomfortable spectacle of their parents as supplicants, powerless and dependent. They've seen their mothers cry and lose their tempers with city employees, only to be punished for it. The illusion that a parent can protect them -- shelter them, literally, from the world's indifference -- is broken swiftly and severely. You see the result in the teenagers; angry, full of shame, but afraid to vent their anger on their beleaguered parents. Many look on the verge of implosion, especially the boys, who skulk outside the E.A.U., taking big, hard breaths of cold air. One morning, I watched a boy who looked about 16 get led out in handcuffs; he managed to kick out the window of a police van before it took him away. 
For those who can afford it, there's a McDonald's up the street on the Grand Concourse, which offers the added attraction of a clean bathroom. One afternoon a few days before Christmas, I went there for lunch with Denise Boone, 28, and her kids, Shannay, 9, and Dennis, 11. Both children are in fourth grade. Dennis was quiet, retracted inside his puffy coat. But Shannay was wild with life, as if all the spirit that had been leeched away from her sad-looking mother was churning inside her. 
"It's three months since the World Trade Center got knocked down!" Shannay reported with enthusiasm. She had gold earrings, red, white and blue beads braided into her hair and a knit cap that read "God Bless America." She listened as her mother claimed, in a dejected monotone, that she had been rejected six times since she first applied for shelter the previous April. The city, she maintained, first wanted her to move back in with a female friend who was on crack and took out a restraining order against Boone, then with Boone's mother, whose two-bedroom already houses five adults, including Boone's AIDS-stricken brother. In June, with nowhere to go, Boone put her kids into foster care, she said, but they ran away. The foster parents treated them badly, Boone said. (She herself spent a portion of her youth in foster care and group homes, as did a number of homeless mothers I interviewed.)
Boone and her children found themselves back at the E.A.U. on Thanksgiving. A church group arrived with turkey dinners, Boone said, but was not allowed to bring the dinners inside. (No food or drinks, except baby formula, can be brought into the E.A.U.) Instead, the families ate sandwiches in the cafeteria. According to Boone, the place was packed that night, and several families were left overnight on the E.A.U. benches and floors -- an outlawed practice that still goes on periodically. 
"They don't want to help you," Shannay informed me in the proud, bossy tones of a child playing the expert. "When you're laying in the street with your kids, they're gonna call B.C.W." (She was referring to the Bureau of Child Welfare, the previous name for the A.C.S.)
"What do B.C.W. do, lock you up?" Dennis asked, interrupting his sing-along with the Christmas carols on the McDonald's soundtrack.
"They take you to jail and they keep your kids until you have enough money to take them out," Shannay replied.
Like many homeless parents, Boone had been unequal to the task of trying to keep her children in their original Bronx schools as the city moved her among boroughs on 10-day placements. Instead, she registered them at whichever public school district the family happened to be placed in. "She's too smart to be out of school," she said of Shannay. "She's an A student; she's going to fall behind. Last time they've been to school this month was . . . what was the last day on your homework?
"December 10th!" Shannay instantly replied.
"And they just got into school four days before that. Then they found us ineligible. We had to come back here."
"I miss my teachers," Shannay said.
Earlier that same day, I'd had breakfast at a different McDonald's with Deborah Williams, 41, and her two children. I met Williams and her kids outside the E.A.U. a few nights before, where Williams, worn out and hoarse, was pushing a shopping cart containing bags of clothing and a small television set. The family had just applied for shelter and was on its way to its first conditional placement. Her daughter, Tynisha, 12, wrapped her head in a long black scarf to avoid me and a photographer. Davonte, 5, a human Superball, promptly informed us that his birthday was Halloween and that he would be playing Jesus the following night in his school play. Then he mugged ecstatically for the camera.
Williams, a postal worker, has a much higher income than most E.A.U. clients -- even after being garnisheed for back rent owed to her prior landlord, she was taking home around $350 a week. She was one of many homeless people I met who were holding jobs, a number of them full time. A single parent, Williams pays $425 each month for Davonte to attend God's Kids Academy, a private school near the Bronx post office where she worked at the time. Her life hasn't been easy; she lost two brothers to drug addiction and to AIDS, and she had been in a long, abusive relationship with a man who is now incarcerated. But the bad luck that brought her to this pass was largely of her own making: after a dispute with her landlord led to eviction proceedings, she began withholding rent last May, but instead of saving that money in escrow, she gambled it away in Atlantic City and in neighborhood card games. "I was totally out of control," she told me. "That was a really messed-up time in my life."
When the eviction became final last October, she moved her children into the small one-bedroom apartment in New York City housing where her godmother lives with her husband, intending to stay there until her earned-income tax credit came through in late January and gave her enough extra money for the two months' rent and broker's fee required to secure a new apartment. But tensions soared in the crowded quarters, and on Dec. 15, Williams and her kids entered the shelter system.
In early January, Williams left me a frantic message from the pay phone at Town and Country, a hotel near Co-Op City, at the northeast edge of the Bronx, where she and her children had settled into their second conditional placement while they sought eligibility for a second time (they'd been denied the first time when the city claimed they could go back to Williams's godmother's). Now they'd been turned down again: "This is Deborah. They sent me an ineligible letter underneath the door at 12:20, obviously I was at work at that time, telling me to hurry up and make it to a conference in four hours, at 4:20. We walked in the door, all of our belongings were gone. They say they put them in storage. . . . We have no choice but to go back to the E.A.U." 
The next morning, I went to the E.A.U. to meet Williams. Though it was midmorning, school buses were still rolling in, disgorging families from their overnight shelter stays. Women helped each other wrangle strollers and suitcases from the buses; older children carried younger children inside to begin the day's wait. I felt defeated just imagining the logistics of these women's lives -- ferrying all their possessions back and forth, pocketbooks crammed with birth certificates and other original documents they constantly need to produce; matching children to socks and snowsuits and bottles; keeping everyone fed. I was amazed by how well dressed and cared for most of the children looked. 
Williams emerged from the E.A.U. exhausted; Davonte and Tynisha were sleeping on a bench inside, she told me. The bus hadn't brought them to Powers, a city-run overnight shelter five minutes from the E.A.U., until 1:40 a.m. (These late arrivals are quite common and a particular hardship for working parents and schoolchildren, who must catch the "early bird" bus at 5:45 a.m. to log in at the E.A.U. before going to work and school.) Outside Powers, Davonte had vomited on the pavement. Everyone slept in their clothes -- Powers is known for being underheated -- and at one point, between bouts of vomiting, the boy awoke in his own feces. But because their belongings had been locked away at Town and Country, they had only the clothes on their backs. Williams rinsed Davonte's underwear but was worried that if she washed his school uniform pants in the cold room, they wouldn't be dry by morning.
As Williams spoke, a slight woman with a pierced tongue burst from the E.A.U. with two small children in tow: Joshuann Russell, 26, whom Williams had just met inside. Russell, who described herself as a longtime victim of domestic violence that had cost her both her job and her apartment, said she'd called the city's domestic violence hotline some weeks ago, after her ex-husband threatened to kill her in front of their children. The city operates a separate shelter system for victims of domestic abuse, but perhaps because it advertises this hotline aggressively on the subways, its beds are often full; the spillover falls to the E.A.U. 
Russell's youngest child, a 2-year-old boy, was clutching an empty bottle and wailing for milk. We crossed the street to the deli, where Russell filled her son's bottle with a shaking hand while continuing her wild story: against her wishes, the E.A.U. had placed her last night in the Bronx, near where her ex-husband lives. Sure enough, Russell maintained, she woke to find him beating her head with the butt of a gun, having been let inside the hotel by a friend of his who works there. By now her little boy, who seemed to function as a kind of dowsing stick for his mother's anxiety, was becoming agitated as her volume rose. Her attacker had escaped, Russell told me, after she dialed 911 on her cellphone. While I pondered the credibility of this story, the boy began to weep, reaching for his mother in his heavy winter jacket.
"You wanna babo? What? What you want? Drink that bottle," Russell implored. "No, it doesn't hurt," she said, as the boy peered up at her. She was holding one cheek where she said she'd been hit with the gun. "Just my head a little bit." 
Outside, Russell had to run back into the E.A.U., and Williams offered to watch her children. The boy cried for malted-milk balls, which his 4-year-old sister denied him. He had a terrible cold. When he realized that his mother was gone, he went rigid with fear and began to scream, choking, coughing, his face a contortion of terror and despair. Nothing we said could calm him. His sister offered him the candy, but he no longer wanted it. She put her arm around him, a 4-year-old soothing a 2-year-old, diminutive figures in puffy jackets, big hoods bobbing like pompoms. I thought of how alien the world must look to these kids without any of the familiar objects or routines of home -- an unending series of new circumstances and people. No wonder their mother's presence felt so crucial -- she was all that stood between them and chaos. 
In the late afternoon, Williams reappeared with her children. I was taken aback by the change in Davonte -- groggy, unsmiling, nothing like the goofy giggler who had mugged for the camera two weeks before. We went to a Chinese restaurant nearby, where Davonte picked listlessly at a bowl of chicken soup and sipped from a plastic cup of greenish lemonade. 
"Every time I cough," he said softly, "my stomach keeps jumping and jumping." 
"Whatever you do, don't throw up on the table," his sister said. 
A slender girl, proud and opaque, Tynisha was deeply unhappy to find herself still in yesterday's silver studded jeans. At 12, she's still half a child -- her heart's desire that week was a $40 Tweety Bird doll she'd seen in a window. But she's an adolescent, too, fighting to manage the few things in her life she can still control. She struggled to do schoolwork in various inauspicious settings -- a report on mummification at Powers, math problems on the top bunk of a temporary apartment without a desk. 
Davonte got up to use the rest room, walking oddly, perhaps out of self-consciousness over his soiled uniform pants. Williams hadn't retrieved their possessions yet from Town and Country; she was worried the errand might prolong their time at the E.A.U. She'd missed work this day -- one of many absences caused by her homelessness -- and her supervisor was running out of patience. "There's going to be some kind of retaliation," she said. "I'll pray on it tonight."
Davonte returned from the bathroom and slumped against his mother. "I'm cold," he murmured. "I want to go home."
There was a pause. It was unclear where, exactly, he meant: the apartment where they'd lived until October, whose contents, including a large Buzz Lightyear doll he pined for, were in storage? The East River Family Center, their first and favorite placement, where they'd had a Christmas tree and opened presents before they'd been deemed ineligible and had to vacate the premises? Or some primal notion we all carry around in our minds of a comfortable place that is our own, where we can retreat to safety?
"Are you sleepy?" Williams asked her son.
"Yeah."
"Well, we don't have a home," she said. "Isn't that sad?"
It was dark by the time we returned to the E.A.U. and Williams and her children went back inside. That night they would be given a third conditional placement at a temporary apartment in the Bronx, but it would lack heat or hot water, as Williams would report to me the next morning, sobbing over the cellphone I'd lent her to keep in touch with me. No one was able to bathe, and they slept with the oven door open and the gas on. Davonte's pants remained soiled, and Williams missed another day of work and the children another day of school to sort things out and finally retrieve their belongings from Town and Country. (The heat resumed the following morning, and there was hot water from that point on.)
After they'd gone inside the E.A.U., I stood beneath the single pink-orange stadium light that hangs above its entrance doors. People were still arriving, some having clearly come from work, accompanied by schoolchildren with bright school backpacks on their shoulders; others who looked dead-tired, dragging garbage bags full of clothing over the pavement. 
At around 8 o'clock, school buses began pulling in to pick up families for their overnights. The buses would keep arriving into the wee hours, children tottering aboard holding blankets and pacifiers and stuffed animals, looking groggier and more disoriented as the hours passed. Some fell asleep before the buses had even left, their faces mashed against the glass. 
While there is diversity among homeless families and the chains of events that lead them to seek public shelter, there is also a shared context: in 1970, there were approximately 300,000 more of what are called extremely-low-income housing units in America than families who needed them; now there are 4.5 million more extremely-low-income families in need of housing than there are units in their range of affordability. Many factors have contributed to this reversal: in the decades since 1970, rent prices in urban areas have outstripped inflation while wages in low-end jobs have at best remained flat. A lot of poor urban neighborhoods have been gentrified as city life once again became attractive to the affluent. And a large influx of immigrants beginning in the 1980's has created an enormous demand for inexpensive apartments in the biggest cities. 
In New York, where income disparity between the rich and poor is nearly twice the national rate, the housing problem is especially acute. Between the late 70's and the late 90's, the incomes of the poorest fifth of New Yorkers fell by 33 percent in real terms, while in the 1990's alone, the city lost more than 500,000 apartments renting for less that $500 a month (in part through the relaxation of rent-control regulations) -- more than half the total low-rent units available. This placed a particular burden on poor families: in 1999, more than 25 percent of New Yorkers who rented an apartment spent more than half their incomes doing so. For a family stretched so thin, a single disaster to a parent -- becoming sick or injured or losing a job; splitting up with a spouse or partner; developing a drug or alcohol or gambling problem -- can result in a child being suddenly without a home. 
In a middle-class family, such personal blows tend to be cushioned by savings. Poor families without savings look to the government for help. But whereas all poor families able to qualify are entitled to Medicaid, there is no entitlement to housing in America. Indeed, since the late 1970's, the amount of federal money available for providing low-income housing has decreased by around 90 percent, according to Cushing N. Dolbeare, a senior scholar at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard who has been a housing advocate for 50 years. As for rent subsidies: in the late 1970's, the federal government provided 300,000 new units of rental assistance each year, most of them in the form of Section 8 vouchers or certificates, which can be used by poor families toward rent payments in privately owned apartments. By the 1990's, the number of additional new vouchers had fallen to 40,000 a year, and for two years beginning in 1995, the federal government eliminated the creation of new vouchers entirely. The proposed Bush budget allows for 34,000 new vouchers, to be added to the approximately 1.8 million already in use. But this increase will not put even a small dent in the problem. In New York City alone, the waiting list for Section 8 is more than 200,000 long. 
As for welfare housing allowances, they are pitiful. A family of three in New York can receive a maximum of $286 a month for shelter allowance -- try renting an apartment for that. And during the 1990's, the city's once-robust investments in building and developing low-income housing were slashed by about 50 percent. Poor people struggling to pay the rent will struggle much harder to find new housing, should they lose what they have. And when they can't, they drop with their children into the homeless system.
Jackie Fuller and Darian and Shanna waited in their city-provided single room on Ocean Avenue for some word from the city. Another bed was delivered; pots and pans appeared in the kitchenette, lent by Fuller's grown daughters. Ten days passed, then 15. On the 18th day, they found a note requesting more information about the family's residence in Memphis. Certain this meant she was ineligible, Fuller became physically ill, then lay awake praying most of the night. 
At school, Darian still hadn't disclosed to anyone that he was homeless. I met him at school one afternoon and took the hourlong bus ride back to Ocean Avenue. When I asked how his schoolmates would react if they learned his secret, he said: "I don't know. I hate this school. There's too many people that think they run me." Then he waxed nostalgic about the school he'd left behind in Memphis. "Everybody knew me as Mace," he said wistfully. "I was the king." 
According to city guidelines, any family not notified of their eligibility status within 10 days should automatically be made eligible, but this rule is regularly broken, and Fuller didn't know about it anyway. She didn't know anything -- no one does, because like most bureaucracies, New York's Department of Homeless Services often functions in a lurching and seemingly arbitrary way. For example, when Fuller first came to the E.A.U., she was offered what is known as a one-shot deal: if she could find an apartment renting for around $600 a month -- a tall order, to be sure, in a city where the rent for a nonsubsidized one-bedroom is seldom that low -- the government would pay her first month's rent, security deposit and broker's fee. The offer was useless to Fuller, who had no income to pay the subsequent months' rent, but for Deborah Williams, who has a steady income from her postal job but lacked the chunk of money required for a new apartment, such an offer would have averted her homelessness altogether. But Williams says that no such offer was made to her.
Williams and her children remained in their city-provided temporary apartment in the Bronx for eight days. When a third ineligibility letter arrived, they reapplied for shelter at the E.A.U. and were eventually sent on a fourth conditional placement to the Park Family Residence, a hotel in Queens, near Kennedy Airport. At 5:30 each morning, the three waited in darkness for a bus that would take them to a subway; they took two trains that finally delivered them to work and school in the Bronx: a two-and-a-half-hour trip. At the end of the day, same story: a fast-food meal in the Bronx (rooms at the Park Family Residence have no kitchen facilities), followed by the long ride back to Queens, where they would arrive between 8:30 and 9:00 p.m. By the fourth day, Williams was feverish; she nearly passed out at work, she said. The next day she stayed home, as did the children -- she was too sick to take them to school. That evening I went to see them.
The Park Family Residence has the look of a large, run-down motel. Set off by a chain-link fence from Rockaway Boulevard and engulfed in a howl of traffic from the nearby Belt Parkway, it makes an unlikely setting for the many children still gamboling near its front doors at 8 o'clock. Outside, under a lunar fluorescent glow, Tynisha and two other girls wielded double jump ropes, each taking their turn at the intricate footwork. It was a testament to the resourcefulness of children, their ability to wrest delight from the most barren circumstances. 
When Davonte threw his arms around my legs and smiled up at me, I noticed a change in his antic face: a bottom front tooth was gone. He'd lost his first tooth in the Park Family Residence, where it had vanished into the clutter of their small room before the tooth fairy could visit. 
"It's cool," he said, when I asked how he liked this new place.
"He's happy because over here they can play in the hallway with the other kids," Williams said. "So he's like the man on this floor."
Hoarse and puffy-eyed, she wore her coat pulled over a pair of shiny blue pajamas, laughing at how "ghetto" she looked in this ensemble. Tynisha wore a matching pair; these were part of a slew of purchases -- new coats, hats, boots, earrings for Tynisha and a ring with a "D" on it for Davonte -- made with Williams's earned-income tax credit, $3,600, which had finally come through. "I got new boots," Davonte bragged, showing them off. "I got new sneakers!"
We left the hotel and stopped at the overpriced convenience store in the gas station next door, the only place nearby where groceries could be found. Then we wove among lanes of traffic to Burger King, across Rockaway Boulevard, where we ate dinner in a strobe of passing headlights. The children reminisced about a visit they'd made with Williams the previous summer to the Staten Island Children's Museum and a nearby Disney event.
"We saw Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse," Davonte recalled breathlessly. "And we had fun. And we was on the slide and we was seeing a movie and we was dancing!"
"It was free," Tynisha added. She seemed more withdrawn than the last time I'd seen her; there had been an incident in the previous temporary apartment when a faulty lock was changed without warning, and the family had arrived back that evening to find themselves locked out. According to Williams, Tynisha was devastated; she had a huge test the next morning, and after a super finally let them in, she had lain on the bed and sobbed inconsolably. But when I mentioned the incident, Tynisha went blank. "My head hurt," was all she would say.
After dinner, the children went to play video games at the Burger King, and Williams and I sat a while longer. Since receiving her tax-credit check, she'd been combing the papers for an affordable apartment, but to no avail. After buying the children's clothes, paying her godmother for the weeks she'd let them stay with her and putting money aside for moving expenses, she had $2,000 left -- enough for the first month's rent and the security deposit, but not a broker's fee. And that was assuming that she could find a two-bedroom for less than $1,000 a month, which was not proving easy. 
"I'm ready," she said. "I have the money. But where is the physical apartment? I am worn out," she concluded. "This particular place is killing me."
The saga for Williams would continue. She and her children would leave the Park Family Residence a few days later and be placed again at Town and Country in the north Bronx, closer to where she worked, with the help of Steven Banks, a Legal Aid lawyer, whom Williams met at the E.A.U. In early February, she would find an apartment she could afford and put down the rent and security deposit, only to learn two weeks later that she'd failed the credit check. 
But later that very same day, Feb. 20, Williams would learn that at last, she'd been deemed eligible: after four rejections, the city had finally acknowledged that her family was homeless. This change in their fortunes most likely resulted from Banks's involvement; so wary is the city of his litigation that his mere association with a case is often enough solve the family's problem. It had been more than two months now since Williams first arrived at the E.A.U. The city had spent approximately $6,500, or $100 a night, bouncing her and her children among hotels and apartments -- nearly the cost of a year's rent subsidy through Section 8. Now that she is eligible, Williams can stay at Town and Country for 60 days, after which she will be moved to a Tier II placement and eventually to permanent housing; homeless families get top priority on the long waiting lists for Section 8 vouchers and New York City housing.
But the likelihood is that Williams, whose income is too high to qualify for subsidized housing, will find an apartment long before that. She and her children will join the majority of homeless households who pass through the system once and relatively briefly. The question is, at what cost to Williams and her children, and to the taxpayer? The federal government now spends $1.7 billion each year on homeless services, but that's only a fraction of the total spent nationally; some 40,000 programs exist to deal with homelessness in America, many financed at the state and local levels. 
In other words, a sprawling and expensive system has arisen to confront the problem of homelessness, and many have begun to worry that this system is creating problems of its own. One fear is that families are remaining homeless longer than necessary (their average stay in New York is 11 months, but more than 500 families have been in the system more than two years) and that moving them among shelters and then to transitional housing prolongs their identities as "homeless families." There is concern, too, that other safety-net programs like welfare and foster care may be letting troubled families fall off their rolls into the homeless system.
Homelessness among families is such a recent phenomenon -- virtually nonexistent from the end of the Great Depression to the early 1980's -- that no one can say for certain what, if any, its long-term effects may be on the children who suffer it. But Dr. Ellen L. Bassuk, an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and co-author of a federally supported study of homeless families, has found that homelessness tends to ratchet up the already grim effects of poverty. According to her research, children in homeless families are sick twice as often as poor children who have never been homeless. Nearly 70 percent of homeless children, she found, suffer from chronic illnesses like asthma and anemia, and almost half of school-age homeless children have emotional problems like anxiety and depression. They also experience four times the rate of development delays and double the learning disabilities and are twice as likely to be suspended from school or repeat a grade than other poor children.
Bassuk's research was conducted in Massachusetts in the 1990's, but experts say that her findings are representative of the state of homeless children nationwide, including those who are homeless today in New York. The Bloomberg administration understands that there has been an increase in the number of homeless children in recent years, but it is not clear yet whether the new mayor is planning any significant changes in the system now in place. Linda I. Gibbs was named Bloomberg's commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services in January, having served as Mayor Giuliani's deputy commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services. When I spoke to her earlier this month, she said she did not think her department was overwhelmed or that the problem of homeless children had become particularly acute.
"The crisis would be if there were children living on the streets," she said. "I think the fact that the homeless system is here is a crisis averted." She did add, however: "There's always room for improvement. We really intend on looking at the eligibility process to see if there are ways that we can minimize or reduce the amount of school disruption that happens when families become homeless." 
Supporting a homeless family in New York costs city taxpayers $36,000 a year -- an amount that could subsidize at least four families' yearly rents or finance countless much cheaper preventive measures: emergency grants to pay back rent or help families to secure new apartments; legal aid to help fight evictions. It is hard not to feel that putting these dollars to a different use would be not just more humane, but more fiscally responsible. "You could spend a dollar on prevention and save four dollars on shelter care," says Patrick Markee, senior policy analyst at the Coalition for the Homeless. "Once somebody becomes homeless, it's that much harder to rehouse them."
Still, fiscal responsibility alone is not likely to serve as a rallying cry. Make no mistake: ending homelessness for families with children would cost money. The question is how much responsibility we, as a society, feel for the children of people whose poverty, or pathologies, have resulted in those children's having nowhere to live. A shift toward spending money to end children's homelessness rather than simply trying to manage it will come only if enough people decide that the social costs of having a million American children homeless each year are too high to tolerate. It will require a consensus that the suffering and damage inflicted on these children through illness and lapsed education and trauma that could very well compromise their productivity as adults not only reflects badly on all of us, but is actually bad for us -- that we, as a society, are worse off because of it.
After hearing nothing from the city for a month, Jackie Fuller went to the nonprofit group Coalition for the Homeless, which contacted the Department of Homeless Services and learned that she'd been eligible for 10 days, but no one had told her. Fuller went limp. She phoned Shanna, who shrieked into her ear. Only Darian's reaction was muted. "I already knew," he insisted.
His equanimity crumbled at the news that the family would have to move yet again -- into Tier II housing -- and then again, at some more distant point, when permanent housing became available. "We have to move?" he moaned, "Oh, Ma."
When I visited the family that evening, Shanna was more subdued than usual. Her boyfriend had stood her up the day before -- Valentine's Day. "My friends all got flowers and big teddy bears," she said, "and I was empty-handed." Since becoming homeless, she'd talked to him less often, she admitted; the reception on her cellphone was terrible in the apartment, and he was tired of leaving voicemails. He'd come to visit once, believing it was her aunt's apartment, but Shanna had made him wait downstairs rather than invite him up.
On the day Deborah Williams and her kids found out they were eligible, they went to an all-you-can-eat Chinese seafood restaurant to celebrate. I spoke to Williams en route, Davonte and Tynisha hooting in the background. I asked whether Davonte's missing tooth had ever turned up. Yes, Williams said; she'd spotted it stuck to a bath towel at the Park Family Residence shortly before they left. But the tooth fairy still hadn't visited.
"I let Davonte know I had it," Williams said. "I thought that would be something to save for our new place. You know: 'Now we're here. Now it's good again. Put it under your pillow."' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sometime after midnight at the Emergency Unit in the Bronx, homeless families board a bus that will take them to a city shelter for the nitght.; Jackie Fuller and her daughter, Shanna, at a temporary apartment in Brooklyn, paid for by the government where they have been living since January.; Deborah Williams and her son, Davonte, on their way from their temporary apartment to school and to work. (Mark Peterson/Corbis/Saba. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (73%); BONDS (73%) HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: EGAN, JENNIFER; FULLER, JACKIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



593 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Tokyo's Still No Bargain, But It's a Lot Cheaper

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
SUMMER kimonos are going for $22 at Oriental Bazaar, a souvenir store on one of this city's most elegant shopping streets. Near the central fish market, Tsukiji Tamazushi restaurant offers all-you-can-eat sushi for $26 for men, $24.50 for women. On an expressway north of town, the Hatagoya Motel offers lodging and breakfast for a family of four for $92. 
 Japan, the land of the fabled $100 melon, has not suddenly become cheap. It is, however, approaching reasonable. 
 The big shift for American visitors has been a welcome 10 percent devaluation of the yen against the dollar over the last six months. Given the shape of the Japanese economy, many economists predict the yen may well lose another 10 percent this year.
In addition, visitors benefit from Japan's deflation. Over the last three years, consumer prices have gradually dropped, at first due to increased competition from imports, now from collapsing demand from Japanese, who worry about their economic future.
Tokyo, which is tied with Osaka as the most expensive city in the world, according to a survey done by The Economist, is still largely seen by Americans as a city to visit only on a business trip, shielded from the pain of a $10 cup of coffee by a generous expense account. But now Starbucks is seemingly on every street corner of Tokyo, selling caffe latte for about $2.25 a cup.
Despite the yen devaluation, an informal survey of hotels, restaurants and tourist attractions in Tokyo and Kyoto found that very few prices had been raised over the last year. This is partly because foreign tourists are often seen as afterthoughts.
Some prices may briefly spike up this summer, when Japan will be co-host, with South Korea, of the World Cup soccer championship. Spread over more than a dozen cities in both countries, the tournament starts May 31 and ends at the end of June.
For a visitor to Tokyo, the stay could start at the Imperial, a luxury downtown hotel ($302 for a double), a daylong city tour with Sunrise Tour for $73, and a tempura dinner at Daimasu, on the Ginza, for $26. For about $6, an elevator will take a visitor 495 feet up Tokyo Tower to a glassed-in panoramic viewing platform.
A weekend at the hot spring resort town of Hakone, which offers views of Mount Fuji 60 miles southwest of Tokyo, costs $30 round trip on the express train, then $195 double occupancy at the Hotel Fujiya. For the trip to Hakone and the rest of Japan, foreign tourists can purchase outside the country a one-week rail pass for $210, a bargain when compared to buying rail tickets inside the country.
None of these prices may seem like tremendous deals. But they were almost double five years ago when the yen was trading at 79 to the dollar, as opposed to the current rate of 129. 
While a weak yen is a boon for the American tourist in Japan, it is a bust for hotels and tour operators that rely on Japanese tourism to the United States. In 2000, five million Japanese visited the United States, spending $11 billion.
Today, Japanese overseas tourism has yet to recover from the double hit of Sept. 11 and a spreading reluctance to spend money in face of an open-ended recession. Last year the number of Japanese passports issued fell by 26 percent, the biggest fall since 1964, when restrictions were lifted on Japanese overseas travel. During the last quarter of 2001, departures from international airports fell by about one third over the same period in 2000. Six months after the Sept. 11 attack, Japanese visits to the American mainland were still down 50 percent from last year's levels.
The number of flights between the United States and Japan has been slashed and plunging revenues have forced Japan's second- and third-largest overseas tour operators to postpone a merger.
To win back Japanese tourists, the Hawaii governor, Ben Cayetano, has given press conferences in Tokyo, Washington has promoted the Cherry Blossom Festival (which began yesterday), and California has flown 40 Japanese travel agents to Los Angeles to meet the new Japanese members of the Dodgers, Kazuhisa Ishii and Hideo Nomo.
Even President Bush has been enlisted as a salesman for a Japanese vacation in America.
"Take your families and enjoy life the way we want it to be enjoyed," the American president says in a television commercial that started to air after his visit here in mid-February. As the camera plays over a pastiche of American scenery, he adds: "The world is beginning to see the best of this great land." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); TOURISM (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); DEFLATION (69%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (68%); TRAINS (63%); SOCCER (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (72%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN; TOYKO (JAPAN); OSAKA (JAPAN)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



594 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Q AND /A 

BYLINE:  By PAMELA NOEL

 BODY:
Visiting Boulder
Q. We are going to a family wedding in Boulder, Colo., at the end of June and plan to stay for a week. Can you suggest an itinerary and inns or hotels? -- C. V., Pottersville, N.J. 
 A. Late June is an excellent time to sample the variety of outdoor activities in the city and nearby mountains, from hiking and biking trails to open-air plays and concerts, according to Joy Kosenski of the Boulder Convention and Visitors Bureau. A helpful tool is the bureau's Web site, www.bouldercoloradousa.com; brochures also are available by calling (800) 444-0447. 
 Among Ms. Kosenski's recommendations is The Earl House Historic Inn, 2429 Broadway, (303) 938-1400, www.bouldervictoria.com, a Gothic Revival mansion with six guest rooms whose features range from decorative fireplaces to leaded-glass windows. All have queen beds and private baths, some with Jacuzzi tubs. Summer prices range from $159 to $215 a room; Friday and Saturday nights are $10 more. (Also available are two carriage houses, each $349 a night for up to six people.) 
The inn is one block from downtown Boulder and its centerpiece, the Pearl Street Mall, which features sidewalk cafes, boutiques and street performers.
Also near the Pearl Street is Hotel Boulderado, 2115 13th Street, (800) 433-4344, fax (303) 442-3478; www .boulderado.com. Among the city's first luxury hotels (1909), it has 160 guest rooms with Victorian decor, mountain views and high-speed digital phone lines. Room rates range from $149 a night, for a standard room with queen bed, to $259 a night for the top suite (sleeping room and parlor with CD player and fax). There are two restaurants and a bar.
Or consider the Chautauqua Colorado Association, 900 Baseline Road, Boulder, (303) 442-3282, extension 11; www.chautauqua.bouldernet.com, set amid parkland and gardens at the base of the Flatirons mountains. It was part of the Chautauqua movement of cultural and educational summer retreats that reached the city in 1898. This is one of three such communities left in the United States; the others are in Lakeside, Ohio, and Chautauqua, N.Y. In Boulder guests stay in 60 cottages and two lodges (there is a four-night minimum stay from June through August). No televisions are provided; guests can take their own cell phones. Rates range from $61 per unit for an efficiency to $136 for a three-bedroom unit. Chautauqua's Dining Hall is a full-fledged restaurant serving three meals a day. There are also lectures, tours and other activities on the grounds. 
Among the other activities in Boulder in late June will be the Colorado Shakespeare Festival, (303) 492-0554, www.coloradoshakes.org, which takes place outdoors at the Mary Rippon Theater on the University of Colorado campus. The festival begins June 26 with performances of "Macbeth" (June 26, 28, 30) and "A Midsummer Night's Dream" (June 27), all at 8:30 p.m. Single tickets are generally $20 to $40 on Friday and Saturday; $16 to $36 from Sunday to Thursday. 
A nice day trip outside Boulder could include a 45-minute drive north on Highway 36 to Rocky Mountain National Park. The admission fee is $10 a car, (970) 586-1206; www.nps.gov. 

Ferry to Nova Scotia
 Q. Where is the closest ferry service to Nova Scotia from northern New Jersey? -- Alan Leader, Wayne, N.J.
A. The closest ferry is about 325 miles away in Portland, Me. The Scotia Prince departs from Portland to Yarmouth, Nova Scotia at 8 p.m. in the summer (June 21 to Sept. 30). The trip leaves from the Commercial Street dock and takes 11 hours. One-way passage from Portland in summer is $90 for adults, plus an optional $35 to $175 more for overnight cabins that range from economy level -- two berths and wash basin only (bathrooms are available nearby) -- to a suite with four berths and a full bathroom with shower. The fare for vehicles under seven feet tall cost $110; pay an additional $16 a foot. 
The ship has 314 cabins and carries 1,200 passengers and 210 vehicles. There is a casino, dining room, coffee shop and lounge. The return trip (with slightly different prices) leaves the dock at Yarmouth at 9 a.m. local time (8 a.m. Eastern time). For more information see www.scotiaprince.com or call (800) 482-0955.
To spend far less time on the water, drive 173 miles farther north in Maine to Bar Harbor and catch The Cat, a high-speed catamaran operated by the Bay Ferries. It makes the trip to Yarmouth in roughly two and a half hours. In summer it departs Bar Harbor at 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., and at 8 a.m. only on Wednesdays. The Cat carries 900 passengers and 240 vehicles. Fares from June 21 to Sept. 7 are $55 for adults; $25 for children 5 to 12. Children under 5 ride free. There is a $3 departure tax. The summer rate for vehicles under 6 feet 6 inches tall is $95. For information see www.catferry.com or call (800) 249-7245.

Celebrating April Fool's Day
 Q. Do any cities have a special festival on April 1? -- Steven Moffic, Milwaukee
 A. The St. Stupid's Day Parade in San Francisco is among the best-known April Fool's Day celebrations in the United States. The parade, sponsored by the self-proclaimed First Church of the Last Laugh, is a motley gathering of wigged and oddly dressed participants. This year's parade, the 24th, is scheduled to step off at noon from the Embarcadero Plaza at the foot of Market Street. It will loop through the sidewalks of the financial district and end back at the plaza. The event is free and anyone can march.
A lesser-known, and more specialized celebration, is the Fool's Fest Dance Weekend at Split Tree Farm Studio, 597 West Cove Road, Chickamauga, Ga. 30707; (706) 539-2001; www.splittree.org. This year, because Easter and Passover both fall near April 1, the weekend has been moved to April 5 to 7 at the farm, 16 miles south of Chattanooga, Tenn. 
The dancing, which takes place over three days is a merry mix of contra, waltz, tango, swing and other styles. There is live and recorded music, dance lessons, breakfast and lunch buffets and a Fully Unformal Fool's Ball, at which jesters' outfits and other costumes are welcome. It is an event that its founder, Sid Hetzler, hopes can offer "a license to be foolish." The celebrations have taken place in one form or another since 1990, he said. Adults are asked to donate $60, and, if they wish, an additional $15 for food ($20 for children over 12, plus $6 for food). PAMELA NOEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); THEATER (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); HIKING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); STREET ART (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



595 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Public Spirit, Private Money and a New New Deal

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
"TRIBUTE in Light," the temporary memorial to the victims of the World Trade Center attack, appeals to the powerful desire to undo wrongs. As conceived back in September by John Bennett and Gustavo Bonevardi, two of the designers responsible for the project, the work was initially called "Proposal for the Immediate Reconstruction of the Manhattan Skyline," as if by filling in the twin voids with brightness we could blot out the galling sensation of being overtaken by events outside our control.
 But this sensation was present long before 9/11. Since the mid-70's, in fact, when New York teetered on the verge of bankruptcy, the city has been shadowed by forebodings of powerlessness, of its destiny taking a wrong turn, and these suspicions deepened during the blighted "renaissance" of the Giuliani years. The sense of a divided city was only magnified by those who tried to deny its existence. It took increasing energy to overlook the reality that the public sector had substantially abdicated its role as a guardian against excess market pressures on the social fabric. 
 In the aftermath of 9/11, we got a clear glimpse of what had gone wrong: a collapse of the city's traditional spirit of progressive civic conscience. A reminder of this spirit was briefly provided by the city's uniformed personnel, its police officers, firefighters and medical workers. Watching them go beyond the call of their duties, as we stood by feeling collectively helpless, we had a feeling of deja vu. We had been here before, at least in our imaginations, when we looked at Lewis W. Hine's photographs of construction workers standing high up on the steel frames of the skyscrapers that arose in the 20's and 30's.
This was also the world captured by Berenice Abbott, then working for the Works Progress Administration, in a series of pictures later published in her book "New York in the 1930's." Through the lens of the New Deal, Abbott captured a city where the social contract of modern democracy had been cobbled out. Our new buildings symbolized this process. Education, housing, medical care, freedom of expression, equal access to opportunity: these were the goals that Hines's construction workers were building toward, in the spirit of reasonable expectation. Here was the great New York mythology, and the city has been living off it ever since, even though, in the 70's, the progressive spirit died a public death.
That death is the wrong that the uniformed personnel temporarily undid. Not since the 30's has the city gained a more focused view of its dependence on actual labor. The image was partly sentimental, but so what? Sentiment is a chord of social cohesion, and that is precisely what was needed. What did the victims of the terrorist attack have in common, after all, with one another and ourselves? They were workers, subscribers to the old mythology that sweat is rewarded with a better life, believers even in the face of overwhelming evidence that success today is just a crap shoot, or the consequence of ill-gotten gains. This common thread brought New York home.
Will it hold? Or should we dry our tears, put away our mourning clothes and, as they say, get on with our lives? Of course we're getting on with our lives. Even those who lost friends, colleagues and family members on Sept. 11 are by and large getting on with their lives. So is the city as a whole: so swiftly, in fact, that it could miss a rare chance to undo the nagging sense that New York no longer stands for the ideal of social justice. 
History's spotlight now shifts to plans to expand upon Lower Manhattan as a hub for regional transportation. The opportunity exists to enlarge our understanding of urban infrastructure as well as our commitment to build more of it.
A total of $1 billion has been allocated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for repairs to the PATH and M.T.A. rail systems. The work is already under way, but thus far little effort has been made to coordinate it with the new Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the New York Department of City Planning, the Port Authority and other agencies with a stake in the future of the financial district.
Well, hooray for them, one might say. What we need is action, not a ring of bureaucracies holding up the city's recovery while they get their acts together. Not such a big hooray for us, however. People have been talking for years about the critical importance of infrastructure as a means of reorienting the urban center to the dispersed reality of the modern consumer society. It would be a waste to settle for ad hoc solutions. Nine years ago, I had a struggle with my editors over my use of the word infrastructure. Nobody knew what the word meant, they said. Now the word is on everyone's lips, but I wonder how many people actually know what it means.
I know I don't. My ideas on the subject were formed by a select group of teachers, including William Morrish, a professor at the University of Virginia; Robert Peck, a former official with the federal General Services Administration; and Manuel Castells, a sociologist and planner at the University of California, Berkeley. On the darker side, I've been influenced by "Underground," Haruki Murakami's account of the 1995 Aum Shinrikyo gas attack on the Tokyo subway system. Terrorism can subvert the most utopian vision into a graveyard.
This is my personal Army Corps of Intellectual Engineers. I couldn't begin to think about ground zero without taking the breadth of their ideas into account, and I would urge their services upon officials of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the Port Authority and other agencies involved in the decisionmaking downtown. Under their auspices, Lower Manhattan is to become the world's most conspicuous digging ground for public-private real estate partnerships.
These partnerships occupy a murky world, filled with self-proclaimed authorities, where an architect can put a shopping mall in an old train station and pass himself off as an expert on infrastructure (retail specialist space planner would be more like it). This is not the moment to accommodate second-hand minds. Our decisionmakers must understand that infrastructure is much more than a matter of conveying so many people from points A to B in so many units of time. It is the city's central nervous system, an extruded form of social space in which the ideal of universal access is given both concrete and philosophical form.
The recasting of a commercial district requires an overarching concept -- a High Concept -- toward which the district's individual elements should rise. With the redevelopment of 42nd Street and Times Square, the high concept was to bring together producers and consumers of popular culture in public, urban space. In Lower Manhattan, the concept should be to create a symbolic urban gateway between the global flow of capital and the regional flow of workers in the financial industries.
In his 1989 book, "The Informational City," Manuel Castells uses the term "the space of flows" to denote the network of channels through which capital moves in the globalized economy. Abstract, digital capital flows in the form of information streams that circulate among trading centers around the world. In the industrial city, a corporate headquarters was geographically linked to its systems of production, distribution and consumption. As a result, it had strong economic and social ties to its immediate urban surroundings.
In the Informational City, by contrast, a headquarters is more closely linked to buildings of its type in other cities than to its own neighborhood or region. This is a given: architecture, planning and engineering can't change it. What these disciplines can do, however, is bring the urban environment into more coherent relationship to the global reality. This is the progressive, forward-looking challenge our planners now face.
Lower Manhattan wants to be a portal -- a Grand Central, if you like -- between two infrastructures: transportation and information. It wants to be a symbolic condensation of what Jeremy Rifkin has aptly termed "the age of access." I do not mean that we should turn back the clock to the New Deal. But neither should we go on denying that privatization is more than a throwback to the Social Darwinism of the 1920's.
MANY of the ingredients for this project already exist, in the historic fabric of the financial district, including the World Financial Center at Battery Park City, and in the transportation lines that converge on Lower Manhattan. But these elements await more articulate connections between the vertical and horizontal fields. Tall buildings are essentially vertical bridges between two horizontal flows -- the terrestrial plane of regional circulation and the aerial level of digital information. They form a scaffold on which thinkers and designers should reimagine the idea of work.
Fortunately, we have a new mayor who got rich by understanding how the informational city operates. Michael Bloomberg now has at least limited authority to integrate this knowledge with the social imperatives of the dense urban core at a pivotal moment. Many obstacles await him: border struggles with competing agencies; the ambivalence of financial companies about remaining in Lower Manhattan; above all, demands for heightened security. He may have a hard time just hanging on to the integrity of that most democratic, social, informational, commercial, accessible, hard-working and efficient piece of infrastructure yet devised by humankind -- the New York City street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Empire State Building Under Construction," by Lewis W. Hine, circa 1930, when skyscapers were rising and brave men balanced high up on steel frames. (Museum of the City of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (59%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



596 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/College Point, Queens; 
A Sense of Seclusion Close to Manhattan

BYLINE:  By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
THE enclave of College Point, whose modern roots go back to the 1830's, is separated from the rest of Queens by a phalanx of megastores, industrial plants, office buildings and the swampy remnant of the former Flushing Airport, which together form the 550-acre College Point Corporate Park north of the Whitestone Expressway.
 But now, with a burst of new residential development, the College Point community is struggling to preserve its character as a quiet waterfront location on Flushing Bay and the East River that still can offer small-town living within easy reach of Manhattan, along with relatively inexpensive homes. 
 "Years ago, we used to say the only reason anyone would know about College Point is if you lived here, worked here, or if you were lost," said Fred J. Mazzarello, president of the College Point Board of Trade, representing local businesses, which he founded in 1969. "Now it seems to have become the desired location for a lot of new businesses and residential construction."
A recent check revealed that 450 housing units in 225 mostly two-family houses have been started or completed in the last 14 months, Mr. Mazzarello said. 
Traffic and parking have become major problems as older one-family houses are torn down to be replaced by two- and three-bedroom brick attached homes that look, as Gene Kelty, chairman of Community Board 7, put it, "like sardines in a can."
Still, the neighborliness of this solid community has not wavered. "A lot of people here volunteer time and effort," said Sabina Cardali, president of the College Point Civic and Taxpayers Association.
Nor has the community lost its small town persona. "Everyone knows each other," said Carl D. Rosenblum, interim pastor at the First Reformed Church of College Point. "I was here two days and everyone greeted me with, 'Hi, Pastor.' " 
The community spirit is also fostered by an annual Memorial Day parade; summer street fairs along College Point Boulevard, the main shopping street; an annual marathon that circles the community; and concerts and other events held at the 29-acre Hermon A. MacNeil Park.
A variety of low-cost or free educational, cultural and social programs are provided at the Poppenhusen Institute, a five-story red brick building built in 1868 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a wealthy local industrialist. Poppenhusen selected College Point in 1854 as the site for a factory making hard rubber products and quickly converted the area's farm fields into a thriving community. He donated land for a school and a church, built houses for his workers and provided vocational training and a free kindergarten at the Poppenhusen Institute. Now a federal and state landmark, the building at 114-04 14th Road is still a thriving center. 
Mr. Mazzarello, who has lived in the community all of his 80 years, remembers the days when residents walked through woods to get to the beach, fished and clammed and attended baseball games like the one in 1925 involving Babe Ruth and the Ruth All-Stars, who lost an exhibition game against a local team. A few vacant parcels remain but most are gone, and landfill along the waterfront has been developed for hundreds of town houses. At 115th Street and Ninth Avenue, 114 two-family houses are under construction in a waterfront development called Edgewater Estates.
One reason developers are demolishing existing frame houses in the heart of the community is that the zoning permits higher-density construction than the detached houses built on 5,000 square foot and 7,500 square foot lots a century or so ago. 
"What brings builders here is the affordability of the land and the profits they can make," said Anthony C. Skoros, an owner of the Suydam Agency, a 100-year-old real estate firm on College Point Boulevard. A builder will buy an older house on a 50-foot by 100-foot lot for $250,000 in an area that permits two-family construction and then build two attached two-families selling for $450,000 to $500,000 each, Mr. Skoros said. 
Even historic buildings are not being spared. On a recent walking tour led by Susan K. Brustmann, executive director of the Poppenhusen Institute, the group stopped in front of 12-29 120th Street, a sprawling white Victorian with wraparound porches built by Frederick Koenig, Poppenhusen's partner. Now a rooming house, it is slated for demolition, and several two-family houses are planned for the site. "This probably is the last time my walking tour will see it," Ms. Brustmann said sadly.
In general, older semiattached and detached one- and two-family houses sell for $325,000 to $400,000, with houses needing work starting at $250,000, Mr. Skoros said. Two-bedroom condominiums start at $275,000. The new two-family homes generally have a two-bedroom unit and a three-bedroom unit, one or both of which can be rented out for $1,200 to $1,800 each a month.
The new two-family houses at Edgewater Estates are priced from $599,900 to $799,900. Owners can rent out their two-bedroom rental apartment for $2,100 monthly and three-bedroom units for $2,400, said Raymond Tan, a sales associate there.
Judy Markowitz, a broker with Re/Max Millennium in Flushing, said North College Point, the area north of 14th Avenue, "is the new Whitestone," where she and other brokers say prices are still about $100,000 higher than in College Point.
For families with children the neighborhood offers two highly regarded public elementary schools for kindergarten through sixth grade, as well as several parochial schools and a private high school for girls.
At P.S. 129, at 128-02 Seventh Avenue, 64.4 percent of fourth grade pupils taking state tests scored at or above grade level in English last year and 83.5 percent in math. At P.S. 29, 125-10 23rd Avenue, 78.6 percent of fourth graders scored at or above grade level in English, and 83.1 percent in math. Children continue their public school education either at J.H.S. 185 in Flushing or J.H.S. 194 in Whitestone. From there students generally go on to Flushing High School.
CHILDREN can also attend kindergarten through eighth grade in one of three parochial schools: the Catholic St. Fidelis School, St. Paul's Episcopal School and St. John's Lutheran School. Annual tuition at the three schools ranges from $2,700 to $3,300. 
The neighborhood also has a private high school, St. Agnes Academic School, a Roman Catholic college-preparatory school for girls at 13-20 124th Street. It offers Grades 9 to 12 for 400 students paying $5,800 annually in tuition. About 98 percent go on to college, said the principal, Sister Joan Martin. 
The community has a great deal of industry, some spilling into residential neighborhoods. Oil storage facilities, a cement plant, a Pepsi-Cola distribution facility, furniture warehouses and contractors and other small businesses wall off much of the waterfront in the southerly section.
Boaters can still moor in several marinas, but boat yards are struggling because silt has reduced the depth of the water. They are hoping a $35 million proposal to dredge Flushing Bay will go forward.
College Point has not always had so heavy an industrial flavor. At one time it contained beer gardens, picnic areas, dance pavilions, beaches and hotels for those who came by train and ferry to enjoy its waterfront ambience. "It was like the Hamptons," said Ms. Brustmann of the Poppenhusen Institute.
The community was named for St. Paul's College, an Episcopal seminary that opened in 1839 and closed about 10 years later on the spit now occupied by Hermon A. MacNeil Park. The land was acquired by the city in 1930 and now has playgrounds, football fields, a baseball diamond, picnic grounds and a waterfront promenade.
The park was named for a local sculptor who died in 1947. His work includes Washington as commander in chief at the base of the Washington Arch and figures on the Supreme Court Building in Washington.
But Poppenhusen is College Point's most famous former resident and reminders of him abound. The Poppenhusen Triangle on College Point Boulevard contains a bust created in 1884 by the sculptor Henry Baerer and paid for by residents after Poppenhusen's death. A playground at 20th Avenue and 123d Street, built on land Poppenhusen donated, also bears his name, as do the public library and Poppenhusen Avenue. 
Among the community's recreation areas, the 24-acre Powell's Cove Park, which opened in 1999 between 9th and 11th Avenues at 130th Street, is a passive park created to protect wetlands and the environment. The other major park is the 11.2-acre Frank Golden Memorial Park. It has a basketball field, four baseball diamonds and a football and a soccer field. More playing fields are being added inside the College Point Corporate Park, where the city has donated 22 acres for a sports complex. 
The 550-acre corporate park was formed by New York City in 1969 on land acquired through condemnation and through eminent domain powers. The land, which is managed by the Economic Development Corporation, has been sold off to different developers and now holds about 175 businesses employing about 5,500 workers. The future of the former Flushing Airport is undecided because it contains wetlands. It covers 16 percent of the park -- about 88 acres. 
Although retail development in the corporate park has brought in major stores like Old Navy, Home Depot, Modell's and a Waldbaum's supermarket, local stores along College Point Boulevard have a vacancy rate of only 2 percent, according to a recent study. The strip attracts people who want to walk to shopping and who want the convenience of a neighborhood store, Mr. Mazzarello said.
Whether the national chains at the corporate park, which attract shoppers from miles around, spurred development pressures on College Point's residential sections is an open question. Most observers say College Point's discovery was inevitable. 
"College Point was just a sleeper town that had a lot to offer and that just wasn't highly publicized," said Lester P. Petracca, president of Triangle Equities, which has built half a million square feet within the corporate park, including offices, stores and a 12-screen movie complex.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Houses on College Place; Hermon A. MacNeil Park on the East River; Poppenhusen Triangle at College Point Boulevard and College Place has a bust of Conrad Poppenhusen and a plaque honoring Betty Pegen, 90. (Photgraphs by Susan Farley for The New York Times); 3-bedroom, 2-bath house at 22-26 126th Street, $282,000. 3-bedroom, 2-bath house at 14-27 110th Street, $325,000. 4-bedroom, 2-bath house at 118-07 12th Avenue, $359,000. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 24,492 (2000 census).AREA: 2.14 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $55,013 (1997 estimate).MEDIAN PRICE OF SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $312,000.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $275,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $170,000.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 15 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 15 minutes by Q25 or Q65 to Flushing Main Street subway and then 33 minutes by No. 7 train to Manhattan. $1.50 one way.GOVERNMENT: Councilman Tony Avella (Democrat).CODES: Area, 347, 718, 917; ZIP, 11356, 11354.PARK WARDEN AT 90: At Poppenhusen Triangle, a Henry Baerer bust of Conrad Poppenhusen bears the legend "To the memory of the benefactor of College Point, erected Nov. 1, 1884." But a second plaque installed in 1996 pays tribute to a current benefactor, Betty Pegen, age 90, who for 30 years has made it her daily mission to rake and plant the half-acre plot at the corner of College Point Boulevard and College Place, the street where she lives, and clean the sidewalks there. Right now the triangle still blazes with artificial poinsettas, but real flowers are starting to bloom. Her plaque reads, "In honor of Betty Pegen, guardian angel of Poppenhusen Park 1996." Henry J. Stern, the former parks commissioner known for bestowing nicknames by the thousands, gave her the additional monicker Park Warden at the dedication ceremony. "It will take a community group to take over from her, but one will come forward," said Susan K. Brustmann, executive director of the Poppenhusen Institute. "I don't believe we would ever want her dream to die." Map of Queens highlights College Point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); RETAILERS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); FESTIVALS (66%); TRENDS (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PARADES & MARCHES (61%); RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; COLLEGE POINT (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



597 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Looking Beyond Books, Libraries Renovate 

BYLINE:  By ANNIE BLACHLEY 

 BODY:
IN a few weeks, flowers will be in bloom on the sun-washed veranda. People will gather, some to read, others to talk quietly, the rest to gaze out at Manhasset Bay in the distance. The cappuccino lounge and the art galleries will be open, as they are all year. And a staff of nearly 100 will be on hand, as usual.
 Despite the ambience, this is no exclusive country club. It is the expanded Port Washington Public Library, a beacon of community pride since its July 2001 opening. 
 "People have joyfully embraced the facility," said the library director, Nancy Curtin. "They're even asking why we can't stay open till 11 p.m."
Before the remodeling, the 30-year-old structure barely had room for its collection of more than 150,000 volumes. It lacked display areas for its extensive media holdings, there was no space dedicated to teenagers and the crucial places for quiet study were being filled with books or technological sprawl.
Other examples of overstuffed and underdeveloped libraries could be found across the Island. Now, many communities have taken steps to bring their libraries up to date, evolving into inviting, comfortable community centers with meeting rooms for uses as diverse as singles groups, walking clubs, hypertension screening programs and driver education. They provide private and group study spaces, auditoriums, art and photography galleries, computers, laptop plug-ins, CD-ROM's, DVD's and videos.
"There's been a marvelous renaissance in the last decade, a rediscovery by the community of how valuable the library is," said Gerald Nichols, director of the Suffolk Cooperative Library System. He said that of Suffolk County's 55 libraries, 32 have completed major renovations or expansions, 8 more "have a hole in the ground" and another 13 have been given the O.K. to rebuild or are seeking approval. If all the plans go through, 96 percent of the public libraries in the county will have been rebuilt.
In Nassau, half of the 54 public libraries have completed or are planning expansion, said Jackie Thresher, director of the Nassau Library System. "Most of the buildings in Nassau were built in the 1950's or 60's and are nearing the end of their useful life," she said, mentioning safety code problems and failures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Such concerns are history at refurbished places like the Port Washington library, where customers luxuriate in the additional space and access to a variety of media.
"It's more efficient," Ambrose Walsh said of the Port Washington library's media center, where he was searching for videos of films nominated for Screen Actors Guild awards. In the computer center, Phil Lobato was surfing the Internet on a state-of-the-art Dell. "I come here all the time," said Mr. Lobato, who doesn't have a computer at home.
In the young adult room, 14-year-old Cailin Buondelmonte declared, "There's more places for us," while her friend, Jessi Miano, complained that "they won't let us use the study rooms." In consideration of what Ms. Curtin described as the "businessmen who come here and say, 'I just need to get away from my kids,' " library study room policy states that anyone younger than a high school graduate must be accompanied by an adult.
Ms. Curtin said the Port Washington library was also dedicated to reaching out to younger children. "Open the library to children who are one year old," she said. "It used to be 3."
The large, airy children's space next to a garden has a cozy carpeted area with books, toys and computers nearby. The library also reaches out through its Parent-Child Home Program, which sends facilitators to the homes of families considered at risk for educational failure.
The library's expansion, from 36,000 square feet to 48,000, also gave tutors representing 30 countries rooms to teach English to the area's increasing immigrant population. A pilot program places E.S.L. instructors in restaurants, teaching employees where they work.
The Port Washington library's expansion, funded by a $6 million bond issue, also provides cultural programs for a broad economic spectrum -- "from poverty level to some of the richest people in the world," said Corinne Camarata, the assistant library director. The schedule includes art, music and health programs, a series for children and a nautical archive with decoys and ship models. Oral history projects celebrate Port Washington's African-American population, sand mining, fisheries, aviation, and workers at Sands Point and other Gold Coast mansions.
Yet the ultimate measure of success lies in what these places bring to people. When the largely African-American community of Lakeview wanted a new library, it had just $1.8 million to renovate a former school. Acting as its own general contractor, the community of 5,500 people took 14 years to complete the project.
"People told us it couldn't be done," said the Lakeview library director, Blair Cummins. But the original 2,000 square feet of library space was expanded to 17,000, and the library will double as a landlord by renting another 12,000 feet of space on upper floors to tenants.
When the Lakeview Public Library held its grand reopening last Saturday, some 600 visitors came to see the expanded black experience collection, the community's first public computers connected to the Internet, and new meeting rooms. Mr. Cummins said the reaction was "overwhelmingly positive" for an area that is "seeking its own identity. This is a major milestone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Libraries are changing with the times. When the Port Washington Library was renovated, modernizations included a computer room. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIANS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); FILM (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (60%); DRIVER EDUCATION (51%); HYPERTENSION (51%) LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS 

PERSON: BLANCHLEY, ANNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



598 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Morristown, N.J.; 
Carefully Vetted Addition for Century-Old Building

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J. 

 BODY:
RENOVATING a nearly-century-old, four-story office building and adding a fifth floor that is permitted by zoning rules would be relatively routine in most communities.
 But in this community, which cares deeply about its rich colonial heritage, even an apparently simple project permitted under zoning rules may not be routine. Such was the case of a recently completed plan to add a floor to 10 Park Place, which faces the town's central green. 
 Though a quiet park today -- described by town officials as the oldest park in the state -- the square is central to Morristown's history as the location of the earliest churches, taverns and courts. (Public hangings took place there until 1833 when a new courthouse was built several blocks away.) 
George Washington and his Army spent two winters here during the Revolutionary War, from January to May 1777 and December 1799 to June 1780 and reminders of his residence abound. Benedict Arnold was tried in absentia here after trying to tip off British commanders to American troop movements. Indeed, the symbol of the town is a reverse silhouette of a man in a Colonial-era triangular hat.
But while Morristown looks to its past, the world around it has been changing. The rolling hills of the northern part of the surrounding Morris County, which were the site of dairy farms into the 1960's and 70's, have been carpeted with town house developments and low-rise office parks. Pharmaceutical companies, many of which have made New Jersey their international headquarters, occupy office parks in the southern parts of the county.
The town itself, a community of 17,500 residents about 25 miles to the west of Manhattan, has felt the impact. The population swells to 60,000 to 80,000 on weekdays as workers flock to the area to work in 3 million square feet of office space in the town and nearby townships.
Since 10 Park Place is roughly on the site of the area's first Baptist church, which opened in 1771, some objections were raised to the placement of a modern steel and glass fifth floor to the existing stone and terra cotta structure.
The answer was, essentially, to hide it in plain sight, said George J. Kimmerle, the president of Kimmerle Architects, which designed the addition as well as the renovations to the existing building. The front wall of the fifth floor was pushed back from the parapet of the existing building, and its rounded mansard shape minimizes the disruption of the skyline.
"The building is in a historic district, and we all had to be sensitive to historic issues," said John J. DeLaney, Jr., Morristown's mayor. "But this is a regional commercial center as well. We had to balance the need for preservation with the need for development and growth."
Mr. Kimmerle said he and his associates spent a lot of time studying sightlines from the green to the top of the building, in seasons when the trees are in full leaf and when they are largely bare. The fifth floor is 8 feet high where it faces the green, before rising to its full height of 14 to 15 feet. "We did not want to compete with the classic facade," Mr. Kimmerle said.
A person walking or sitting on the green can see the addition, particularly if they are on the eastern side of the park, which is farthest away. But they would have to be specifically looking for it: it does not jump out.
"There is no question that the green is the jewel of Morristown," said Mr. DeLaney, a lawyer who is a part-time mayor. "This project is enhancing that jewel in a better way."
The tension between preservation and the desire for economic development is strong in Morristown between preservationists and those more concerned with economic growth. When a proposal was made to lower the height limit for new buildings in parts of the business district from five to three stories, officials of the historic preservation society applauded, saying new development often threatens old buildings because there is little open land.
But the director of the town's special improvement district complained that height limits could curb development and increase tax burdens on existing taxpayers. Like business improvement districts in New York City, the town's special improvement district levies charges to provide additional services to businesses in the area.
Although some elements of the town's history, like the buildings where Alfred Vail helped to perfect the telegraph and Morse Code, are likely to be preserved, Morristown has changed rapidly in recent years. It is moved away from not only the distant colonial era, but also the gilded age, when wealthy New Yorkers build magnificent dwellings to serve as summer residences.
Many have disappeared, but some have been converted to other uses. The 100-room mansion built for Florence and Hamilton Twombly became the home of Fairleigh Dickinson University. An indication of the family's land holding is reflected in a nearby municipality, whose name, Florham Park, derives from the first names of the Twomblys.
Over the past two decades, the town has absorbed an influx of recent immigrants, many of them from Central and South America. According to Mayor DeLaney, the Hispanic population of the town has increased from about 5 percent in 1980 to about 25 to 27 percent currently. Recent immigrants have provided labor for restaurants, cleaners and landscaping services, but some long-term residents have been disturbed by large groups of immigrant men who crowd sidewalks while seeking day work.
Morristown's downtown area suffered a blow in 1993 when the Macy's store, on the green adjacent to 10 Park Place, closed its doors. The long-empty store has had a depressing effect on other smaller retailers, just as closed department stores have had in Newark and Montclair.
THE old Macy's building is scheduled to reopen in April as the first New Jersey location of Century 21, a chain of stores noted for selling designer clothes at deep discounts. With the area expected to improve, the landlord of both buildings, a family partnership, decided to proceed with the renovation of 10 Park Place.
Mr. Kimmerle described the existing building as a 50,000-square-foot rabbit warren of corridors and tiny offices, with a dimly lighted, dingy lobby. "We originally were going to put carpeting in the lobby, since there didn't seem to be anything else to do," he said. But when thoroughly scoured, the floors were found to be of attractive stone, separated by brass dividers.
New lighting was installed in the lobby, much of it indirect, and wooden panels mounted on the walls for warmth. New elevators were also installed that run to the new fifth floor and, for the first time, to the basement as well. The second floor of the building is intended to connect to a recently built parking deck, which will help solve a persistent problem in a town that was laid out before the advent of the car. 
Mr. Kimmerle said a lot of care had been given to preserving and repairing the plaster detail work inside and the gothic terra cotta on the front facade.
He said the smaller spaces had been combined to produce offices that would be attractive to design and communications firms attracted to an urban, but small-scale location. "People working here can walk to transportation, to restaurants and shopping," Mr. Kimmerle said. "You can't do that from a building on Route 46," he said referring to a major commercial highway in the region.
The new layout has been attractive to tenants willing to pay higher rents than before. Before the remodeling, he said annual rents were in the low teens a square foot. The new tenants are paying in the low to mid-$20's, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George J. Kimmerle, president of Kimmerle Architects, designed the fifth-floor addition to 10 Park Place. (Don Standing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); RELIGION (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (51%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: KIMMERLE ARCHITECTS 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MORRISTOWN (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



599 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2614 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Feel the Pain In This Budget Squeeze 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM 

 BODY:
BY the time the dismissal bells ring in the public schools throughout New Jersey on Tuesday, educators will have a much clearer idea how much the more than one million students in the state will suffer because of a yawning budget deficit.
 The 600 school districts in New Jersey have already been told that they would probably receive the same amount of direct aid from the state for the 2002-3 school year as they did in the current year -- $5.8 billion, of which almost half will go to the poorest districts. 
 However, while working with the same slice of the pie, schools will be forced to make some hard choices since many districts are facing increasing enrollments, a skyrocketing number of special education students and increases of 10 percent to 25 percent in the cost of insurance and transportation.
"We have said no to everything that's not essential for enrollment," said Dr. Michael Osnato, the superintendent of schools in Montclair, noting that that included replacing instructional material, lowering class sizes and hiring additional guidance counselors. 
What Dr. Osnato is bracing for is hardly unique. The South Orange-Maplewood district, also in the northern part of the state, for instance, is planning to cut nine positions next year, to buy fewer supplies and to delay some building repairs. The Cherry Hill School District, in South Jersey, plans to remove six teaching positions from the two high schools, and jobs for two assistant principals will be eliminated. In addition, the purchase of new library books and textbooks will be delayed and six bus routes canceled.
From one end of the state to the other, school boards and parent-teacher organizations have over the past two weeks been meeting to sound the alarm that the 550 districts that vote on their budgets on April 16 will probably be asking for hefty property tax increases.
In New Jersey, the state pays an average of 40 percent of the school budget, with the other 60 percent coming from property tax revenue. But many districts do not receive that 40 percent. About half of the state aid goes to the 30 poorer districts, known as the Abbott districts, like Newark and Camden. The rest is divided up, with affluent districts like Princeton, Haddonfield and Hopewell Valley Regional Schools receiving less than 10 percent of their budget money from the state.
"I do expect to see layoffs around the state and delays in planned improvements," said James Murphy, executive director of the New Jersey Association of School Administrators who is a former superintendent himself. "We have a very difficult situation this year. It's a crisis. The last time we had a freeze on spending was in 1991."
It was in 1991 -- when Mr. Murphy was superintendent in Bayonne -- that he had to let 75 employees go in a district of 9,000 students. Class sizes went up, textbook orders were canceled and maintenance projects were postponed.
"If you have a growing number of kids, it's a problem," he said. "You will not get additional funding for more students."
Since 1991, the state's public school population -- currently about 1.3 million -- has risen by 130,000 students, yet during the same period the number of administrative positions has been reduced to 6,500 from 7,500, Mr. Murphy said.
Moreover, the new curriculum standards adopted by the state five years ago have put pressure on districts to hire foreign language teachers at the elementary school level and to do what is necessary to improve writing and math skills, yet in many districts there is little in the way of state aid to pay for these programs.
Despite the fact that a the belt-tightening has been looming for some time, the school districts will have much less time than in past years to draw up their plans, because the governor's budget figures for the schools were not released until late February rather than in January. With the state facing a budget deficit of almost $3 billion, the districts were told not to expect any more state aid than last year. It is for that reason that school boards are holding special budget meetings and parents are rallying to explain what is at stake in the April 16 elections.
"Its a big rush to get the word out," said Elaine Stagg, the mother of three children and president of the East Brunswick PTA President's Council, which is made up of PTA. officers from the district's 11 schools. "We'll do our best to make sure people know about it and what's actually in the budget and what we could lose without supporting the budget. It's no-frills in this budget, it's just the necessities. No extras or new programs, it's just maintenance."
In New Jersey, if a school board's proposed budget requires a larger property tax increase than the 3 percent cap that state law allows, a second ballot question must be put before the voters that specifies for what the additional funds will be used.
In 1991, just under 56 percent of the ballot questions passed, according to Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. Those numbers are in sharp contrast with boom years like 1985, when 87 percent of the questions were approved, or in 2000, when 88 percent passed. Last spring, 81 percent of the 552 budgets voted on at the polls were approved, while 70 districts had second ballot questions.
Over the years, New Jersey has struggled with the issue of school financing. The 1996 Comprehensive Educational Improvement and Financing Act drew up a formula for financing the schools that -- depending on a school district's economic status -- was more in line with the state Supreme Court's Abbott decision, an attempt to achieve parity in poorer districts. New Jersey is one of only seven states in which residents vote on the school budget, and can therefore take their anger out on their neighborhood schools during bad economic times.
"The big problem in New Jersey is that on average the state pays 40 percent of the cost of education, and property taxes pay 60 percent," Mr. Yaple said, adding that in other states, the split is usually 50-50. Under this arrangement, it is the more affluent communities that bear the brunt of the property tax burden.
For example, Princeton Regional Schools receive only 8 percent of their school budget in state aid, Haddonfield receives 7 percent and Montclair 11 percent. On the other hand, a district like Willingboro -- though not among the state's 30 poorest districts but more blue-collar and middle-class -- receives 62 percent of its financing through state aid. The 30 Abbott districts themselves receive almost all their money from the state, and the state Department of Education is prohibited by court order from freezing those funds.
"No one is disagreeing that those districts didn't need the aid," Mr. Yaple said. "But other districts are also struggling."
One of the biggest problems facing most districts is the fact that in any given school budget, there is very little flexibility, with 85 percent to 90 percent of the money usually going toward salaries, utility costs, insurance and federally mandated special education. That leaves school supplies, instructional aides, maintenance, textbooks, computers, advanced placement classes and extracurricular activities on the chopping block.
"It's going to be an extremely tough year," Mr. Yaple said. "Enrollments are going up. Districts still have to pay contractual raises, and other expenses are going up -- from utility bills to health insurance. It's very likely that many districts will have to ask a second ballot question, and they go down when the economy is bad and up when it's good. It makes it difficult when the economy turns sour and the voters are frustrated. This is the only place to take out their frustration."
For example, school budgets were approved from 1996 to 2000 in East Brunswick. Yet last year, when the economy was softer, both budget questions failed and had to go to the Township Council, where the budget was upheld, said Jennifer Forbes, a spokeswoman for the district.
"I think everybody is concerned about this year," Ms. Forbes said.
In the 2001-2 school year, East Brunswick received 19 percent of its $91.4 million school budget in state aid, and taxpayers were assessed at a rate of $3.55 cents per $100 assessed property value. This year, the total proposed budget is $97.7 million for the 11 schools, and taxpayers will be asked to pay $3.81 per $100 assessed value of their homes.
Much of the additional money will go toward transportation costs, which are expected to rise to $7.3 million next year from $6.1 million in the current year. At the same time, health care benefits for full-time employees will eat up $12.4 million next year, as against $10.8 million in the current school year.
In addition, residents of East Brunswick will have a second ballot question seeking approval of $1.9 million in spending for such positions as chairs of the foreign language and the art education departments, part-time school aides, financing for the early-morning drop-off program and as well as part-time instructional aides, calculators and textbooks.
"We have to raise taxes or cut services," said Dr. Jamie Savedoff, the superintendent of schools in East Brunswick. "There is no other place to go."
In East Brunswick, a number of new teaching positions has helped to bring down class sizes in high school to an average of 25 students, but with 300 more high school students expected in the next four years, the student-to-teacher ratio could go up.
"I think it's going to be tough for a while," said Dr. Savedoff, noting that while the community wants a quality education for its children, some people lost money in the stock market and others simply lost their jobs.
Consequently, he predicted that the percentage of ballot questions that would pass would be "significantly less this year."
"It's not because people are anti-kids or anti-education," Dr. Savedoff said. "There's just no money left."
Like many other administrators, Dr. Peter P. Horoschak, the superintendent of schools in Maplewood-South Orange, said he hoped that the freeze on state financing would be a one-year proposition. For now, the district is looking at a budget of about $73 million next year, with only about $5 million coming from the state. 
"We're trying to keep the cuts away from the classroom," Dr. Horoschak said. "Unless something positive happens, we're going to be facing the same problems in the future and perhaps having to cut back programs. We're buying a year. We're trying to hold our staffing levels in place and serve a greater number of students with less staff."
To help avoid layoffs or doing without supplies, Maplewood plans to ask its board of school estimate to approve a 7.9 percent tax increase, meaning that the average homeowner in Maplewood would face an estimated tax increase of $272. In South Orange, taxpayers would have to shoulder an annual increase of $357. The Maplewood-South Orange district is one of about 50 in the state in which a board of school estimate rather than the voters approves the tax rate.
In addition, the Maplewood-South Organge district is expecting a 2 percent increase in enrollment and more than $13 million in special education costs.
Although administrators are hoping to get more help from the state in the 2003-4 school year, there are no signs indicating that more money will be available for school districts in the near future.
"It's impossible to project that far in advance," said Rich Vespucci, a spokesman for the state Department of Education. "Some people feel this is going to be a short-lived recession."
The problem is, many administrators say they are already operating on a tight rein financially. For instance, in East Brunswick, there were 7,225 students and 42 administrative and supervisory positions in the district in 1983. But by this year, with almost 1,500 additional students, the administrative staff had been reduced to 19.
"I hear this same stories from my colleagues left and right," said Dr. Savedoff, who is also president of the Garden State Coalition of Schools. "We run very efficiently."
For many districts like East Brunswick, special education -- which is mandated by federal law -- has eaten up a large percentage of the budgets.
"You are diverting resources from other areas to pay for special education," said Dr. Savedoff, noting that about 14 percent of his district's 8,700 students were classified with some type of learning disability.
In the Hopewell Valley Regional School District, the school board plans to ask voters to approve a budget of $49 million for 2002-3, an increase of more than $3 million from the current school year.
As a result, plans to initiate an alternative high school program for disenfranchised students, adding programs for preparation for the College Boards and improving technology throughout the district will have to be delayed even if voters approve the increased spending, said Dr. Robert Sopko, the superintendent in Hopewell.
The special education budget will also grow, with 29 percent of the proposed increase going toward those programs. There will be about $8 million to serve more than 570 classified students, including 37 children with some form of autism. Of that group, 16 students are attending out-of-district schools with tuitions ranging from $17,031 to $159,000. What's more, because 31 of the students are between the ages of 3 and 11, the outlays can be expected to continue for years to come.
While Dr. Sopko said he was optimistic that the budget would pass, he said he was disturbed nonetheless because of the way in which New Jersey's system fostered a division between the parents of special education students and more mainstream pupils as well as between working families and people on fixed incomes.
"The sad part is it pits the elderly against the young family," he said. "It's the only budget people have the right to express themselves on. My budget is not infinite and open-ended. There are a lot of competing values. I would try to cut anything else before the educational opportunities for the kids."
Then there is Cherry Hill, where voters will be asked to approve a 6.3 percent tax increase to finance a proposed $124 million budget, about $10 million higher than the current one. Cherry Hill, an affluent district, receives about 12 percent of its money from the state, and as in many other districts, enrollment is growing fast.
When Dr. Morton Sherman came to the district as superintendent five years ago, there were 10,200 students. Today, there are 11,400, of whom almost 11 percent, or 1,143, are classified as special education students. Two years ago, there were only 975 such students. The district budgeted $7.2 million for special education this year and is seeking $8.6 million for the 2002-3 school year. In addition, insurance costs for health benefits and liability will climb to $18 million from the current $15 million, Dr. Sherman said.
While the district is cutting back on some teaching and administrative positions, eliminating some bus routes and reducing textbook orders, administrators are still looking for creative ways to finance other programs. For example, a popular film course will raise money by having the teacher and the school play host to one or two evenings -- at a cost of $5 to $10 per person -- in which a filme will be shown, followed by a discussion.
Still, Dr. Sherman said, real changes in how education is financed will have to come at the state level.
"The way the taxing system is set up, it actually divides communities," he said. "Schools should be a binding force in the community. One hundred percent reliance on property tax is so off-base. The state has to review this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the late 1980's, the Matawan/Aberdeen School District district was getting about 40 percent of its money through state aid; today it receives only about 24 percent. As result, the district may have to let go as many as 12 teachers and 2 guidance counselors. A classroom already serves as the lunchroom, right, and the library is used as a classroom, below. The costs of special education are also rising. (Photographs Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 8); In the Matawan/Aberdeen School District, students as well as teachers -- who had to give up their dining room -- will feel the effects of a state stretched beyond the limit. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); LIBRARIES (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TAX LAW (62%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED) 

PERSON: NUSSBAUM, DEBRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 



600 of 814 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 280 More Rooms for the Marriott; 
Hotel to Grow In Brooklyn

 BODY:
The New York Marriott Brooklyn hotel, which has been highly successful since it opened in 1998, will add 280 guest rooms, retail space and meeting rooms as a result of an agreement with the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 The $53 million expansion is to be based on the purchase of an 8,000-square-foot parcel of city-owned land at 345 Adams Street in downtown Brooklyn adjacent to the hotel, which now has 376 rooms. 
The 23-story addition is to contain 180,000 square feet of space and will be joined to the older structure by a short enclosed bridge over an existing promenade connecting Adams Street to Jay Street. The hotel is part of Brooklyn Renaissance Plaza, a development that also includes 800,000 square feet of office space. 
 It took the hotel's developer, Joshua L. Muss of the Muss Development Company, 13 years from the initial announcement to the start of construction, and the hotel has been nearly full from almost the day it opened. According to the city's Economic Development Corporation, the occupancy rate in 1999 was 87.6 percent; it was 91 percent in 2000 and 86.4 percent in 2001. Andrew W. Alper, the agency's president, said that the existing hotel had brought more than 2,000 jobs to downtown Brooklyn and that the addition would generate 100 more jobs. Mr. Muss said he expected construction of the addition to begin in spring 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MARRIOTT BROOKYN (HOTEL) 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002 

 
