

401 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RIKERS ISLAND;
Trying to Keep Jobs Cooking in the Bronx

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
A contract that could create hundreds of jobs to supply inmates at all city jails with prepared meals should go to a company inside the five boroughs, not to Rockland County, city officials say.
Complying with a court order to improve the food at the jail complex, the Dinkins administration had decided in November to contract the job out to the State Department of Mental Health, which had planned to spend $4.5 million to expand its high-tech kitchen in Orangeburg to supply food through the cook-chill method. 
 But two weeks ago, the Legislature voted against allowing the department to spend the money. Bronx legislators and community leaders had fought the original plans, saying they were worried about hundreds of jobs being created upstate instead of within the city. The Bronx, they argued, with its proximity to Rikers Island, has many potential sites, among them the Hunts Point Produce Market, at 331 Tiffany Street.
Officials with the city's Department of Corrections will go to court tomorrow to ask a judge to allow the department to look for a contractor inside the city. Because of the Legislature's move, the judge is expected to agree.
The city is under a 1979 Federal Consent Order to change the way it prepares the meals as a result of a lawsuit filed by the Legal Aid Society for inmates in the 1970's, after a series of riots. The suit complained about a variety of conditions, including the food, cleanliness and visiting hours. The order set a deadline of September 1995.
Last week, Bert Schoenbach, executive director of the West Bronx Development Corporation, drew up a list of five potential sites that he will submit to the city.
Juan Castro, a spokesman for State Senator Efrain Gonzalez, a Bronx Democrat, said, "The Legislature was sympathetic to the concerns of the New York members who thought it was important to keep as many jobs and economic opportunities in the city as possible,"
Mr. Gonzalez is a ranking member for the Senate Committee on Commerce, Economic Development and Small business.
"We were able to convince our colleagues to keep the center in the city and not export the jobs," Mr. Castro said.
Mr. Shoenbach said: "My community is an impoverished area in desperate need of jobs. The city always wants to put the sludge plants and the medical waste incinerators here, but not the jobs. I'm glad to see that we at least have a shot at bringing some jobs in here." LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new Rikers Island cooking center would make airline-style food. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Bronx showing locations of potential food plant sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC) WEST BRONX DEVELOPMENT CORP (95%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (54%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC) LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (54%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CONTRACTS; FOOD CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); JUDGES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RIOTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LEGAL AID (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (60%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE EFRAIN GONZALEZ (60%); JUAN CASTRO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



402 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2790 words

HEADLINE: The Bottom Line on Banks

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
APRIL Tyler opened an interest-bearing checking account at Chemical Bank eight years ago, and now has thousands of dollars in an individual retirement account there, too. But the relationship took a nose dive last month when Chemical announced that it was closing 50 branches, doubling the minimum balance required for "free checking" and sharply increasing fees for checking accounts that fail to make the cutoff.
For Ms. Tyler, the changes mean a choice of tying up $7,500 between her two accounts or paying at least $9.50 a month in extra charges. 
 "Now either my money's held hostage at the bank, or I'm going to lose all the money I might make someplace else on fees," she said. While "no one would call me poor," adds Ms. Tyler, who works for a community development group in Harlem, she would be greatly inconvenienced by the new requirements. She is determined to move her money elsewhere.
While the new charges, which take effect May 2, make Chemical among the most expensive of New York banks, and while it remains unclear if other banks will follow suit, Ms. Tyler and others who bank there are far from the only unhappy customers around town these days. Caught between the changing economics of banking and the technological possibilities of the computer age, a lot of people all over the city, and across America, are being forced to pay more, with considerably less in the way of service, to maintain basic savings and checking accounts. (And New Yorkers pay especially dearly, according to a 1993 study by the United States Public Interest Research Group. The survey of 22 states found New York the third most expensive for a selection of consumer charges.)
At the same time, banks have closed branches in many neighborhoods, and especially in the inner city, driving many poorer New Yorkers to credit unions and expensive check-cashing outlets.
To people in the banking industry -- suffering from low interest rates and business left shaky by bad real-estate loans and the loss of their best corporate customers to investment banks -- the new consumer-banking policies are the only way the banks can afford a portion of their business that is especially labor intensive and not especially lucrative. Their eager hope for the future: a day when most retail banking -- from writing checks to buying money-market funds or insurance policies -- will be done over the far-more-cost-efficient telephone or by personal computer.
To many consumers and their advocates, though, these new policies amount to a snub, a declaration that the banks just don't care that much about the man or woman who needs a simple checking account. As for new technology, at least for now, an A.T.M. card represents about all that many people care to know.
"It's a very difficult market for small consumers right now," says Edmund Mierzwinski, consumer program director for the Public Interest Research Group in Washington. "They are bearing the brunt of bank fee-gouging, and they're not earning any interest as the banks lower their rates."
Still, for every April Tyler, with her vows to switch banks, there is at least one New Yorker who complains about his or her bank but is too uninformed, confused or inertial to do anything about it.
"I'm not surprised by the increases in general," said William Wolfe, a computer consultant and Chemical customer, adding that he periodically vows to comparison shop but never has. "It's sort of like a New Year's resolution. I want to get control over my banking, but I'm not there yet."
So in these in-between times, where are the best deals for consumers? What follows is a look at the various issues that are important when seeking out a bank and starting what people in the industry like to call "a relationship."
 
CHECKING: A PRIMER
 Retail banking, and especially the checking account, has long been unprofitable, sort of a loss leader, because of the labor and other costs involved in processing all that paper. Some experts estimate that the big banks lose money on as many as 80 percent of their checking accounts.
The banks do make money on customers with large deposits. And they have created all manner of special services to woo them, from free checking to a quasi-private teller windows to personal bankers.
For the rest of us, though, it's those trips to tellers that end up making retail banking so costly, explains Brian C. Hartzer of First Manhattan Consulting, which advises financial-services companies.
To offset that, he says, "banks can reduce their own costs by cutting back branches, or they say, 'Either we get these people to get their balances up to the point where we can justify serving them, or we have to raise their fees.' "
There are fees to maintain a checking account, fees if the account falls below a minimum balance, fees for bounced and returned checks, fees to write checks and fees for using A.T.M's. Even accounts with no activity are subject to monthly maintenance fees, which means money can evaporate even though the owner isn't writing checks.
These fees tend to be regressive, coming down hardest on the people who can least afford them. In fact, many of the larger commercial banks substantially shrink their fees for larger accounts.
"It's certainly become harder for people at the lower end of the income scale to get banking services," says Richard Marsico, a professor at New York Law School who advises community groups on banking concerns.
In general, the larger commercial banks charge higher fees and set higher minimum balances for free checking than savings banks. For example, the minimum balance for a no-fee, interest-bearing account at East River Savings Bank is $1,000 -- among the city's lowest. If you don't care about interest, Astoria Federal Savings charges no fees and has no minimum balance requirement.
At Citibank, though, the minimum is $5,000 for an interest-bearing checking account, or $10,000 in combined accounts. Without interest, you need $2,000 in checking or $6,000 in combined accounts.
Other fees are comparable, however. A bounced check costs you $15 just about anywhere.
Even "free" checking, promoted by some banks, is rarely that. Sometimes it means only that there is no maintenance fee -- a monthly charge just for having an account, which is now $9.50 at Chemical, for instance, if you keep less than the $6,000 minimum for non-interest-bearing checking there. There is still often a charge for each transaction (a check written, a rendezvous with an A.T.M.).
At Chemical, the managing director for New York branches, Jack Stack, said the bank had not received "that much bad feedback" about the increases, or the decision to close 50 branches, most of which duplicated branches acquired in the merger with Manufacturers Hanover.
"We're working very hard to explain to our customers that we do have a complete package that the competition can't duplicate, and we are trying to help them link accounts together so that many of them can make the minimums," he said. "In our deeds, we demonstrate that we're very much interested in the small consumer. We have 61 branches in low- to moderate-income neighborhoods in the city. We're providing products and services that we think are very attractive to the little guy."
When it comes to figuring out the best deals, it helps to compare checking charges with the cost of parking several thousand dollars in an account that pays no more than 2 percent interest, experts say.
And it helps to pin down the specifics. Some banks require a minimum balance, which means that if your balance dips below that level even for a minute, you will be charged a month's worth of fees. Others, like Chase, compute the minimum balance as a monthly average.
Another strategy for saving money: order checks from a generic printer, rather than from the bank. At East River Savings Bank, ordering 200 checks costs about $16, said Marjan Moini, a representative there. But a call to Current Inc. in Denver can get you the same number of checks for $6.95. The telephone number is (800) 426-0822.
And people who write only a few checks each month should ask their banks about a program called lifeline banking. Seldom advertised but required under a state law that goes into effect in July, it charges a fee, usually $4 or so, and sets a maximum number of transactions, usually eight. The problem is that once somebody goes over the limit, the fees increase, sometimes drastically.
 
WHERE BANKS AREN'T
 Joseph E. Vincent is the director of financial-service development for the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. Before that, he spent 30 years as a branch manager for Chase Manhattan.
There is an entire Bronx community district, District 3, encompassing Morrisania, that has 58,000 people and no banks, Mr. Vincent says. The impact is deep and devastating.
"It's not just a question of credit," he said. "If you don't have a place to save, that doesn't encourage basic thrift. And then you lose the basis for economic empowerment. If you don't have a place to save, it's very hard to start out on that road."
April Tyler's disenchantment with Chemical peaked with the recent increases in fees and minimum balances. But it had started as she watched the bank close two of its three branches in the part of west Harlem where she works with the Ecumenical Community Development Organization. Along Broadway, she says, there is no A.T.M. between 113th and 168th Streets.
"A lot of people who could afford a bank before no longer can because of the fees," she said. "And those who still can have to travel far or bank near their work. It's demeaning."
In the South Bronx, Mr. Vincent says, there are 25 bank branches, down from about 50 in the mid-1970's. In the northern part of the Bronx, there are 78 branches. With 40 percent of the borough's population, he adds, the South Bronx has just 25 percent of its banks.
The issue is a thorny one for the banks. While not necessarily abandoning people by design, many experts say, the banks' focus on their profit margins makes operating branches in poor neighborhoods unattractive. Such branches often have many small depositers, which means less for the banks, except for fees.
"I'm not suggesting the banks are viciously plotting to do this," Mr. Vincent said. "It's a logical byproduct of the banks needing to be more profitable."
Under the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act, which gives watchdog groups and others power to question the lending practices and service records of commercial banks in poor neighborhoods, accessibility is not emphasized the same way credit availability is. Many consumer advocates would prefer to see banks evaluated more for availability.
The State Banking Department has oversight in such matters, but it does not have a lot of influence.
"While I understand that a physical bank branch can be an important economic-development vehicle," said Denise Pease, a deputy superintendent, "at this point in time, while we may encourage banks to look at underserved areas, we do not mandate them to do so."
 
CREDIT UNIONS
 Where banks have decamped, and often where they haven't, credit unions take over their functions.
New York City now has 200 credit unions, with about $3 billion in assets and about 633,000 members. Some are organized within corporations or unions, others have sprung up through churches, and some have emerged in communities where there simply are no banks anymore.
In general, credit unions charge lower fees and have considerably lower minimum balances than banks. according to the National Federation of Community Development Credit Unions. Minimums, if required, are more like $50. Fees are based on cost, rather than cost plus a profit margin. Many credit unions charge between $2.50 and $10 for a bounced check, less than most banks, and currently interest rates range from 1.75 percent to 3.5 percent, higher than at most banks, according to the federation.
One that just completed its first year is the Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union. Begun to provide an outlet for people in the largely working-class, and sometimes bank-scarce, neighborhoods of central Brooklyn, including Flatbush, Fort Greene and Crown Heights, it has branches in churches and housing projects and recently completed a deal to take over a closed Chemical branch in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
"I used to be an advocate and I would get angry about this kind of thing," says the credit union's treasurer, Errol T. Louis. "But now I look at it as the way things are. We're trying to turn it into an opportunity."
It's not the world's most convenient system. The credit union is open two days a week, from 1 P.M. to 6 P.M. on Thursdays and from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. on Saturdays. There's no A.T.M. yet, although there probably will be, Mr. Louis said. But where big banks saw no hopes for profit, the credit union believes it will flourish, largely because it dispenses with many of a bank's operating costs, from pay for directors ( the board is made up of volunteers) to the cost of returning checks to members each month.
 
INTO THE FUTURE

Retail bankers have seen the future, and it has the bland glass face of a computer screen, the voice of Touchtone, the dimensions of a plastic wallet card. Pretty soon, bankers hope, people will do most of their banking by telephone, computer or with a debit card. It will mean goodbye to checkbooks and the paper they generate and the recovery of much of the energy lost discussing simple matters at a teller window, not to mention waiting to get there.
"The U.S. is still far behind the rest of the world, even though it's got a lot of A.T.M.'s," says Tony Saunders, a professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business.
Still, different banks, to different degrees, are part of the way there. While all banks with teller machines offer such basic services as deposits and withdrawals and transferring money between accounts, probably the most advanced is Citibank, where customers can set up a program, using their A.T.M. cards, that, among other things, automatically pays bills, like mortgage payments, credit card payments and utility bills, for $3.50 a month.
Reflecting the city's ethnic diversity, some teller machines are multilingual. Citibank machines are also programmed with instructions for blind or disabled people; the programs respond to taps on the screen.
Banking by telephone and by computer is an outgrowth of the advancement in A.T.M. capabilities. At Chemical, customers can track checks written, find out balances and move money between accounts by telephone, Mr. Stack said. The service is available 24 hours a day, and there is no separate charge. Chase and Citibank have similar phone lines.
A personal computer linkup available through Citibank is known as Direct Access, and while it does not permit deposits and withdrawals, it permits people to perform other banking functions from home. Citibank will give you the software, but charge you $9.95 a month to use it.
In some ways, the emphasis on electronics can be better for the consumer. The Federal regulations covering electronic banking offer tighter protections against fraud and theft, in many ways, than do regulations that cover human bank operations. Customers are liable for only the first $50 of such losses, as long as they file a report within two days.
For the banks, it's definitely cheaper. Mr. Gregor, the consultant, says a teller-assisted transaction costs about $1.07, an A.T.M. transaction closer to 25 cents. Yet many banks charge for use of teller machines, setting fees similar to those for checks.
"The A.T.M. market is maturing and two things are happening," observed the Public Interest Research Group's Mr. Mierzwinski. "One is that the costs to the bank are declining because the machines are cheaper, and now that the machines are in place, the cost of using them declines."
Which leads to one big question: As more and more people rely on technology for their banking business, will fees shrink or disappear? Don't count on it, say the consumer groups. The banks say they don't know.
"Given the history, I think it will mean increased margins for the banks and higher prices for consumers," said Travis Plunkett, a banking specialist with the New York Public Interest Research Group.
And will the advanced technology be embraced by, well, everybody.
"I really have some doubts as to whether the great American public that watches 'Beavis and Butthead' is going to be doing this," says Roy C. Smith, a former partner at Goldman Sachs who is now a professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business. "We'll see."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BANKING PAST -- In the old days, when banks made money on depositors' money, they battled for small accounts with offers of everything from free checking to, yes, toasters. Fees were low, and service was personal.; BANKING PRESENT -- The new economics of banking have made the small customer a costly commodity. The result: rising fees, fewer branches and less personal service.; BANKING FUTURE? -- If the banks have their way, you'll never use a teller again. (pg. 1); A device, at top, unveiled in 1967 was designed to act as an unmanned banking station. A customer would insert a card and a teller would appear on a screen. An automatic deposit machine called Bankograph, right, was introduced in 1961.; Can You Identify These Machines? -- Back in the early 60's, the automatic teller was only a prototype like these. The first teller machine in commercial use in the United States was installed in 1968 in the First Pennsylvania Bank in Philadelphia by De La Rue ltd. The machine's only function was to disburse cash. The first multifunction machine that took the plastic cards we are familiar withytoday was installed in 1971 in a Citizens and Southern National Bank. By 1973, there were 2,000 machines throughout the United States. The rest as they insist on saying, is history. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC) CHEMICAL BANK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (71%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L APRIL TYLER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



403 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
After 27 Years, Housing Fight Is Intensifying

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
On the Lower East Side, where housing is one of the most pressing needs, a prime site cleared for development 27 years ago has stood vacant ever since, serving instead as a battleground for community groups fighting over what to build there.
That dispute is heating up anew, pitting a prominent local Orthodox Jewish group favoring commercial development against advocates of affordable housing who say more apartments are desperately needed for doubled-up and homeless families. 
 Rudolph W. Giuliani is the fifth Mayor to wrestle over what to do with the city-owned land. Valerie Jo Bradley, a spokeswoman for the City Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said his administration would review the issue soon.
Another key figure is Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who represents the area. Critics say he has failed to exert leadership to resolve the dispute and has used his clout to rebuff housing plans, in sympathy with the Orthodox voting bloc and maybe to preserve his district's demographics. He says he wants "a buildable consensus plan," but the community so far has been too split.
The area in contention, part of the Seward Park urban-renewal project, is four parcels between Essex and Attorney Streets and Delancey and Grand Streets. Community Board 3 -- itself sharply divided -- recently voted to make low- and moderate-income housing there the community's top-priority request for the city's capital budget.
"After festering for 27 years, it's long overdue," said Roberto Caballero, a Puerto Rican political leader and executive director of Pueblo Nuevo, a housing organization. But he said Mr. Silver was a stumbling block.
Proposals for more housing are opposed by the United Jewish Council, an influential voice for Orthodox residents, many of whom live in four large private complexes nearby known as the Grand Street co-ops.
"Why target the Lower East Side for more low-income units?" said Harold Jacobs, executive director of the council and manager of the co-ops. "We have enough of that type of housing already, 15,000 units in this district." He said he favored commercial development: "What we really need is more jobs for the people who live here now."
Such opposition stems from racial fear, said Frances Goldin, a leader in the Lower East Side Joint Planning Council, a coalition for housing. "They would rather have the vacant lots and rats than have minority people there," she said.
Seward Park's tortuous history started with a slum-clearance program in 1967, when 14 blocks of tenements were demolished. City officials "temporarily" relocated 1,840 poor families, promising them the right to occupy the planned new apartments. But construction was delayed into the next two decades, and the first units were diverted to outsiders. Few of the original people ever returned.
Eventually 360 apartments were built by the city, 600 by St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, 156 by the Chinatown Planning Council and 124 by the United Jewish Council. The last two were reserved for the elderly.
But prime sites remained undeveloped. The latest plan, offered last year by Kraus Enterprises, calls for 600 apartments, a park, retail center and multiplex movie theater. The project would pay for itself without public funds, the developer said. It still requires city approval. BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Map of the Lower East Side showing location of the disputed site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SEWARD PARK (58%); LOWER EAST SIDE JOINT PLANNING COUNCIL (90%); UNITED JEWISH COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER EAST SIDE JOINT PLANNING COUNCIL (90%); UNITED JEWISH COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; JEWS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); CITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUDGETS (65%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (50%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



404 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
A Real Taste of Home at La Marqueta

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
As a girl growing up in San Sebastian, Puerto Rico, Elba Gaffney turned up her nose at pasteles, the meat-filled pies that are a highlight of the island's holiday meals. "I was a very particular eater," she said. "Everybody looked at me like I was crazy."
 These days, however, Mrs. Gaffney rarely goes home at night without the sweet, oilysmell of banana dough used for the pies still strong on her clothes. In the last five years, through her East Harlem business, her name has become almost synonymous with the pies that offer a taste of home for the neighborhood's large Puerto Rican community. 
 In September, Mrs.Gaffney, 58, became one of the first new merchants to set up shop in La Marqueta since its decline in the 1980's. She operates a small stall where she sells coffee, cookies, rice, beans and frozen pasteles with spicy pork filling, which she prepares daily by the score in the kitchen of her nearby El Vita wholesale operation.
 The only woman to own her own business in the marketplace, Mrs. Gaffney and about a dozen other new merchants made the move after the city renovated one of the four metal buildings of the original Marqueta.
 "All I really wanted to do was sell my pasteles," she said. "But everyone convinced me to add this and add that and now I have almost a restaurant here."
 Mrs. Gaffney hopes to persuade supermarkets around the city to carry her pasteles. "You say Mexico and you think tacos," she said. "So why shouldn't we be able to say Puerto Rico and think Pasteles?" R.K.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elba Gaffney, owner of El-Vita Coffee & Cookie serving patrons at La Marqueta. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PUERTO RICO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: GAFFNEY, ELBA ELBA GAFFNEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



405 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2073 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Turn On the Twentysomething Market?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
WHEN Charlie von Simson sees the latest commercial for Budweiser pop up on his television screen, the one that features people his age joking about characters in "Gilligan's Island" and other sitcoms of the 1960's, the one that marketing experts spent months researching and developing just for people like him, he grabs the remote control.
"That Bud ad is so lame, I wince every time I see it," said Mr. von Simson, 29, who studies law in Brooklyn. "By the time we were watching those shows, they were reruns, which makes it painfully clear that these ads were made by people 10 years older than me." 
 Marketers have sat through endless hours of focus groups. They have read the research reports, the magazine articles and the op-ed pieces about the 42 million people in their 20's now known as Generation X, twentysomethings, twentynothings, post-boomers, the lost generation and boomerangers.
And now, they are trying to find a way to sell to the group, which for all the talk about its alienation and diminished expectations in the harsh 90's still manages to spend around $125 billion a year on consumer products, according to a survey by the Roper Organization. The trouble is, the group is proving it can be a hard sell.
No one can pinpoint just when marketers became interested in the group, but over the last year or so beer companies, car manufacturers and a host of others have created special campaigns to tap into the Zeitgeist of those in their 20's. The most widely used approach: appeal to the group through what marketers, many in their 40's, believe to be their sociological and cultural touchstones. By using references to old TV shows and featuring young white actors in disheveled clothing speaking the language of alienation, advertisers hoped to show an understanding of the group's visions, goals and needs.
But people in their 20's, who were raised on television, are highly skeptical of advertising that sells an image because they have been deconstructing ads all of their lives, separating the hype from the reality. They see perfectly well what marketers are up to with them, and they are responding resentfully to some of the campaigns, calling them patronizing and off the mark.
What does work, say researchers, advertising executives and members of Generation X, are campaigns that depict the life styles of a group that has come of age in the wake of the better-off baby-boom generation. Named after the title of a novel by Douglas Coupland about the often overeducated and underemployed people who were born roughly between 1965 and 1974, members of Generation X are also called baby busters, as in "from boom to bust." Many of them, as well, were reared in single-parent homes or in homes in which both parents were working. They had to help out with the shopping, or do it themselves, and so they learned about coupon clipping, comparison shopping and bargain hunting.
All of which means that as a group, they are obsessively worried about their place in the economy, frequently convinced that they are being ripped off or duped and determined to get their money's worth. And that means, according to some marketing experts, that if advertisers want to reach them, they had better get things right, especially when it comes to cultural icons. And they should also keep the smoke and mirrors to a minimum, concentrating instead on showing how their products work easily and affordably.
"Marketers who have gotten it right have realized that this generation wants items that function well with no hype, things that are useful," said Marian Salzman, president of BKG America, a market research firm in New York that recently conducted a survey of people in their 20's.
"Until now there were not a lot of people asking for research on Generation X," said Rex Briggs, a researcher at Yankelovich Partners, a market research and consulting firm in Westport, Conn., and, at 22, a member of the group. "They look at them and say that it is a fragmented group that they can't get a handle on. But they are wrong, because there are some common themes."
IT is difficult to quantify the effect ads aimed at people in their 20's or any age group have on the bottom line because sales figures by age are hard to compile. And, of course, while an audience might find an ad engaging or even hilarious, that is no guarantee that it will buy the promoted product or even remember its name. Still, some Generation X ads seem to have their work cut out for them more than others.
Consider the Budweiser commercial, part of a campaign that features Generation X at rest. Here they are shooting pool in a bar and discussing what are ostensibly icons from their youth.
"O.K., Ginger or Mary Ann?" one young man asks another, referring to "Gilligan's Island" characters. "Ginger was a bimbo," chimes in a female friend. "Mary Ann," intones the man. "Mary Ann or Jeannie?" the first man asks, in a reference to another series, "I Dream of Jeannie."
"They haven't found my icon," Mr. von Simson said about the ad. " 'Welcome Back, Kotter' would work for me. Or if they had an ad with the Fonz selling beer, I would laugh my head off. A well-done Fonz might influence my habits." The Fonz was a character in "Happy Days." Both that series and "Welcome Back, Kotter" aired in the mid-70's.
Despite such criticism, the marketers at Budweiser think the spot is terrific. "Our research shows that this generation holds Bud in the same league as their trusty blue jeans, classic rock and classic TV," said Bob Lachky, the 39-year-old director of Budweiser marketing for Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis, who sees this as a campaign for the entire age group, cutting across geographical lines and educational differences.
But whether or not Budweiser has focused on the right icons, many in Generation X have a different beef: they are tired of being linked so closely to television and resent the presentation of rerun watching, an activity favored by those who are "between jobs," as so many in this group happen to be, as a life style choice.
"The Bud ad misses the mark because it portrays us as an idle generation, and we certainly do not perceive ourselves that way," Mr. Briggs said. "Those of us who are struggling to make it are really struggling and working hard."
By contrast, a campaign for Bud Light, targeted at a general audience, has gotten a better reception because of its humor. In the campaign, a young man sneaks his way into a limousine by pretending to be someone important, and then enjoys a Bud Light as he is driven around.
And a print campaign for Dewar's Scotch has been drawing raves by relying on images of what life in the 20's is all about while avoiding corny sitcom lines. The ads, designed by Leo Burnett U.S.A., depict young men and women in their new, slightly funky apartments, getting ready to go to work at their entry-level jobs. "You finally have a real job, a real place and a real boyfriend. How about a real drink?" reads the copy of one ad.
The technique of identifying visually with a target market is timeless, marketing experts say. "The Dewar's ads are brilliant," Ms. Salzman of BKG America said. "What they do is take a slice of life and then lay the product over those lives."
VALUE, too, will trump hipness any time with this group, experts say. "This group is much more pragmatic than their parents were," said Dr. Audrey Guskey-Federouch, a professor of marketing at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh. "In a bad economy, everyone becomes more value-oriented, but economic downturns usually don't affect the spending habits of people in their 20's because they are still concerned with trying to impress peers. But not this group. They watched the group ahead of them spend, and they are rebelling."
How the value question was treated apparently made the difference between an unsuccessful campaign for Subaru and a winning one for the Chrysler Corporation's new Neon.
Subaru tried to stress the coolness of its Impreza model last year by featuring a sloppily dressed young actor who testified that the car was "like punk rock," while other brands were "boring and corporate."
Perhaps this was designed to show how alienated young shoppers feel in the modern car culture. But Wieden & Kennedy of Portland, Ore., the agency involved, was unable to bolster sales. The ad became a running joke among some members of the target audience and eventually Subaru switched agencies.
The results of the campaign for the Neon, a cute, gas-efficient little car, are not yet in, but anecdotally, it is getting a good response. What the Southfield, Mich., office of BBDO North America managed to do with Neon is demonstrate its compatibility with young people who want something fun looking and low cost. And it pulled that off without resorting to musical metaphors and contrived vernacular to explain why the product is a generational must-have.
"We are buying the Neon just because we saw the ads during the Olympics," said Siobhan Kelly, 27, who lives with her husband and 6-year-old son in Oswego, N.Y. "We saw how cool it was, and how affordable it was. The advertisers made it seem very 1994."
BABY boomers were flattered when product hawkers made them look rich and credit card commercials told them membership has its privileges. They still respond positively to ads for hot-looking cars and other products that they perceive will enhance their image.
But people in their 20's have an image problem with that kind of approach.
An ad for Sprite is very popular among those in their 20's, Mr. Briggs said, in part because its characters are a departure from the typical cast of white kids in bad hats but also because it so completely deflates the image issue.
In the commercial, by Lowe & Partners/ SMS in New York, a young black man remarks that he has seen a lot of soft drink advertising and that he doesn't want to be sold things by celebrities, that he just wants something that tastes good. "It speaks directly to this generation's need to be spoken to directly, and not as part of a mass market," Mr. Briggs said.
Likewise, while advertisers are able to appeal to a boomer's sense of entitlement, they must be equally in tune with a buster's feelings of disenfranchisement. Those in this market need to feel that they are getting a good deal and that their purchases reflect their ability to find one, which is part of the strategy of Neon's campaign.
Marketers should also pay careful attention not to offend the political sensibilities of the group. "You have to be very sensitive with male-female issues," said Dr. Guskey-Federouch. "With this generation they feel at this point that a lot of the women's issues are supposed to be settled."
She said that ads for household products would fare better, for instance, if women are presented in neutral clothing, like exercise gear, so it is unclear whether they work in or out of the home.
Dr. Renee Frengut, a consumer psychologist and president of Direct Talk, a generational marketing firm in New York, recalls an ad she saw for Dawn dishwashing liquid by D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles of New York that featured a young woman who said she had tried a cheaper brand but found she had to use more to get the job done.
"This line has been around for years, but what has changed is the emotional import," Dr. Frengut said. "The emphasis is on the fact that she isn't stupid, that she knows value, rather than on her worries about whether her dishes are clean enough. It's the same story, but they have changed the presumed consumer benefit."
So there it is, marketers. All you have to do is find a straightforward, no-frills, unself-conscious way to tell consumers in their 20's about your super-functional, totally practical yet mildly indulgent and greatly affordable product in a way that acknowledges their savvy understanding of advertising. Oh, and also make sure the message is not offensive.
"The people who will win in all of this are the marketers who realize that the so-called Generation X has had a different sociological process," Mr. Briggs explained. "If they can speak to their frustrations and emphasize their ability to have small indulgences that are pleasurable options to the cold world outside, they can do well.
"I don't envy advertisers' jobs right now because these are difficult times," he added. "But it can be done."
Mondo cool opportunity, no?

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about advertising to consumers in their 20's misidentified the home city of Direct Talk, a generational marketing firm. It is Boca Raton, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Loser: An appeal to coolness from Subaru. Winner: An appeal to value from Chrysler's Neon. (BBDO North America); Loser: Idle chatter from Budweiser. (Anheuser-Busch); Winner: Slices of life from Dewar's. (Leo Burnett U.S.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROPER ORGANIZATION (55%); ROPER ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROPER ORGANIZATION (55%); ROPER ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL GENERATION X (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); BREWERIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); PARENTS (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER CHARLIE VON SIMSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1994



406 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: BACKTALK;
At Home in the City, Baseball's Newest Parks Succeed

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER, Special to The New York Times; Paul Goldberger is chief cultural correspondent of The Times.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Tex., April 14

 BODY:
The most rabid football fan thinks little about what surrounds the gridiron; the ardent basketball fan dreams of 3-point goals, not of arenas. But baseball is connected intimately to the place in which it is played and derives much of its aura from that place. It is no accident that people do not merely like ball parks, they love them, and they remember them with passion.
Could any other sport yield a Wrigley Field or a Fenway Park? Only baseball, which is played over time, not against it, and whose field dimensions are never quite fixed. Every outfield is different, or at least it used to be until the concrete flying-saucer stadiums of the last generation replaced glorious eccentricity with banal, bureaucratic sameness. The Astrodome may be great for rodeos, but it is not what baseball is about. 
 Count the Astrodome Generation dead. The first blow was struck two years ago at Camden Yards, the magnificent Baltimore Orioles park that opened in 1992 and whose stunning success made it difficult, if not impossible, for anyone to seriously propose putting baseball into one of those concrete bunkers again. Now comes Camden Yards' progeny, two brand-new fields that make it clear that the Baltimore ball park was not some sort of romantic aberration, but the harbinger of a whole new way of building for baseball.
 
Family of Parks
 One of the new parks is in the midst of a city, the other seems to be waiting to have a city grow up around it, but both are the clear offspring of Camden Yards. And like many children, they owe plenty to their parent, even as they struggle to do things their elder never dreamed of.
The Ballpark in Arlington, as the Texas Rangers park that opened last Monday is called, and Jacobs Field, which the Indians inaugurated in downtown Cleveland the week before, could not be more different from each other. Yet these parks, each in its own way, continue the work begun at Camden Yards, the mission of recapturing the baseball field from the architects and owners and public sports authorities who 30 years ago pulled baseball out of ball parks and started putting it into huge, vapid concrete stadiums more suited to football and stock car races.
These two parks are for baseball, and for baseball only. The grass is real, the field is open to the sky and the connection to the surroundings is intense, particularly in Cleveland, where the city's skyline looms over center field and the park is an easy walk from downtown. But even in Arlington, where the urban context is really suburban sprawl, there is a sense of urbanity. Its brick walls and towers line the street, and they seem to cry out for a real city to surround them. (Maybe some day there will be one: the architect of the park, David M. Schwarz of Washington, has also been commissioned to do a master plan for the area around the park.)
 
Too Much of a Good Thing?
 The success of Arlington is startling, in part because the project seems, from drawings and photographs, to be just too good to be true -- too pretty, too romantic, too derivative of old-style ball parks to be convincingly a product of the 1990's. With its roof trusses recalling the original Yankee Stadium, its "home run porch" alluding to Tiger Stadium, and its right-field shape loosely calling to Fenway, the whole thing looks as if it's going to be less a ball park than a ball-theme park.
And then you go, and you discover how little you can trust drawings. It is as pleasing to watch a ball game here as at Camden Yards, maybe more so. Every detail of this park -- of which plenty are sleek and modern and look not at all to the past -- comes together to create a coherent work of architecture, a work that functions well and even has some unexpected moments of monumental grandeur.
The experience of being at Arlington begins outside the park, where the facade looms up over a messy landscape of parking lots, amusement parks, hotels and a convention center. The mix of red brick and stone, with four pyramid-topped corner towers and a rhythm of repeating arches, makes it look like a kind of simplified palazzo. The outer walls are decorated with sculpted Texas longhorns and lone stars and a frieze of Texas history in bas relief, not to mention rooftop lamps in the form of huge baseballs.
The magic moment, though, is when you step through the stone arches and catch a glimpse of the field within: It is a powerful instant when you feel the order of the city and the order of baseball coming together. You sense that in what is itself a great space, inside the concourse between the outside walls and the seating bowl, where green-painted steel trusses line the ceiling and green-steel ramps and stairs move up and down and across to give the room high drama.
 
Homer in First At-Bat
 And from there it is into the park itself, where the seating is arranged in three main tiers. It is asymmetrical, both to emphasize the tie to older ball parks and to give the field a degree of idiosyncrasy.
Schwarz had never designed a stadium before. Far from finding this a liability, it seems to have made him all the more attractive to the Rangers. "I wanted an architect who would look upon this as a once-in-a-lifetime chance, because that's what it was going to be for me," said Tom Schieffer, the president of the team.
The real achievement in this $189 million project is in the layout of the 49,292 seats to maximize a sense of intimacy with the field. The angle of the upper deck is less steep than in many recent parks, and many of the seats are angled slightly toward home plate. The columns supporting the roof of the home-run porch in right field make for a few obstructed-view seats, but the columns also frame and intensify the view of the field for those sitting far behind them, and the porch itself is a spectacular architectural element.
The layout also includes 120 private luxury suites slipped deftly into intermediate levels, avoiding the sense that this park is dominated by special seating for the rich. This is no small problem these days in arena and stadium design, where class distinctions, once altogether absent from sports architecture, seem now larger and larger. There is at least the illusion of democracy in the Arlington layout, if not the reality of it.
There is no such illusion in Cleveland, alas, and that is that park's biggest problem. The $170 million Jacobs Field, named for the Indians' owner, Richard Jacobs, also contains 120 luxury suites, but instead of being slipped unobtrusively between main seating levels, these glass-enclosed boxes dominate one whole portion of the park. Three levels of glass facing the field sends a disquieting message that is very much at odds with the larger goal of this park, which is to tie itself into the larger life of the city.
 
Cleveland, No Doubt
 Luxury skyboxes symbolize isolation, in the same way that suburban stadiums sitting in seas of parked cars symbolize isolation; they are an unavoidable part of sports economics today, but this hardly means that they have to be so conspicuous an architectural presence. It's too bad, since otherwise the Cleveland park makes every effort to integrate itself into the larger city. The views of the skyline are spectacular, and there is no mistaking from any one of its 42,000 seats that you are in Cleveland. Indeed, the open corners, which maximize the views, are one improvement over Arlington, where the frequency of high winds mandated a park closed on all sides.
Jacobs Field, which was built as a part of the city's Gateway renewal project, was designed by Joseph Spear of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, a firm that has made a specialty out of stadium architecture for years, and whose credits range all the way from the acclaimed Camden Yards to the 1992 Comiskey Park, the most disappointing of the current generation of ball parks.
While Schwarz carried the old-fashioned air of Camden Yards even further, Spear went in the other direction, trying to prove that it is possible to build a ball park that is traditional in its respect for baseball while being modern in its architectural details. This is a lighter, more hard-edged building than either Camden or Arlington, less instantly lovable, but with a kind of strength that feels right for a Northern industrial city.
The park is well laid out, with field dimensions that, like Arlington's, are slightly eccentric and a seating bowl that is asymmetrical. Unfortunately the upper deck is steeper than Arlington's, and some of its seats are far away from home plate, which came in part as a result of trying to satisfy the worthwhile goal of letting the right-field side of the building run straight along a neighboring street rather than curve inward. Given that most older ball parks responded to the pattern of the streets around them, this gesture is every bit as much a look backward as anything done at Arlington.
 
Park With a View
 To be fair, the views from the bulk of the seats at Jacobs Field, many of which are angled toward home plate, are excellent. And there is a splendid bleacher area under the huge, lively scoreboard. If you look toward the field with the skyline as a backdrop and keep your back toward the skyboxes, you'll be perfectly happy.
The exterior is handsome, with a base consisting of bands of green granite, tan kasota stone and limestone, with brick above, and lots of white-painted tubular steel, a big change from the old-style green that is in fashion elsewhere. The field lights are set not in large horizontal blocks but on narrow vertical poles, like smokestacks; along with the gently vaulted roof and the vault-topped elevator towers, these give the stadium a distinct profile.
Each of these new parks is a kind of monument, a place in which baseball and the idea of civic architecture come together. The great ball parks have always been places of rus in urbe, of the country in the city, and it is in the meeting of these two things, the soft perfection of the field with the hard lines of the city, that the special quality of ball parks lies. The infield, finite and measured and in a sense urban itself, giving onto the outfield, vast and stretching and of no particular dimension -- from the juxtaposition of these two things, the meeting of urban containment and rural expanse, comes the truth of the ball park, now rediscovered in our time.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last week about new baseball stadiums misidentified the author, Paul Goldberger, in some copies. He is the chief cultural correspondent of The New York Times, not its architecture critic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacobs Field in downtown Cleveland, top (Steve Mellon for The New York Times), and The Ballpark in Arlington, lower photos, were built just for baseball, and it shows. The new stadiums, which opened earlier this month, are very different from each other but trace their roots to the national pastime's more romantic ball parks. (Photographs by Danny Turner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS RANGERS; CLEVELAND INDIANS TEXAS RANGERS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS; CLEVELAND INDIANS TEXAS RANGERS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS; BALLPARK IN ARLINGTON (TEX); JACOBS FIELD (CLEVELAND) STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); CHILDREN (64%); AUTO RACING (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1994



407 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC;
'Gigantic Ears' With Room for Old, New, Even Jazz

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI; Anthony Tommasini writes about music and theater for The Boston Globe.

 BODY:
THE PIANIST Ursula Oppens whose tenacious devotion to contemporary music has been hailed by composers and critics for more than 25 years, performs new music not out of obligation or even just out of curiosity.
 "There are many, many, many, many reasons I have been involved in new music," Ms. Oppens said recently, with her trademark fourfold pattern of emphasis. "But one of them is that the only people who could tell off piano teachers, the only people who could outrank them, were composers." 
Growing up in New York, Ms. Oppens had some imposing piano teachers. One was her mother, Edith Oppens, who was an institution for years at the Mannes College of Music. Another was Leonard Shure, once a teaching assistant of Artur Schnabel's in Germany, a brilliant pianist, a probing musician and an overbearing pedagogue. Just being asked about him made Ms. Oppens nervous. "Phew," she said, wiping her brow with mock relief when the subject was dropped.
 Since those student days Ms. Oppens has won the loyalty of countless composers, including John Harbison, whose Piano Sonata No. 1 she will present on Wednesday evening in her long-awaited Carnegie Hall recital debut. The sonata also appears in her recording "American Piano Music of Our Time," Volume 2, which was nominated for a Grammy Award in 1991 and contains works by Conlon Nancarrow, Frederic Rzewski, Charles Wuorinen, Tobias Picker and Anthony Davis, all written for her.
 Some might suggest that Ms. Oppens, now 50, would have found her way to a Carnegie recital much sooner had she not been so involved in contemporary music. In 1971, with a master's degree from Juilliard and a first prize from the Busoni Competition in Bolzano, Italy, in hand, Ms. Oppens teamed up with the cellist Fred Sherry to found the enterprising contemporary-music ensemble Speculum Musicae. Five years later she was awarded the prestigious Avery Fisher Prize and an evening at Avery Fisher Hall with the New York Philharmonic. For her first Philharmonic subscription concerts, in 1978, she chose Elliott Carter's Piano Concerto, which she has championed and recorded.
 "My concerto is a very difficult work," Mr. Carter said recently, "and not the kind of thing that would be considered as enhancing to a career, not the kind of thing that New York Philharmonic people would rise up and cheer about. The devotion Ursula has had to contemporary music is extraordinary for a performer of her caliber."
 But Ms. Oppens has always played standard repertory as well, and played it impressively. "She is today's leading new-music pianist," Richard Dyer wrote in The Boston Globe, "because she is one of today's best pianists, period." Her Carnegie program typically juxtaposes the Harbison with works by Beethoven and Ravel.
 Ms. Oppens believes that the false separation of old music from new is a fundamental reason classical music is having difficulty today. "If you go to a concert only to hear music you've heard before," she said, "then it's a pretty narrow step to go to a concert to repeat an experience you've had before, which is not such an interesting thing as having a new experience."
 What this means, she explained, is that if you don't feel excited by a performance of Beethoven's "Eroica" Symphony being sold to you as the best, if you don't experience the same thrill you did the last time you heard it, then you blame yourself. "Whereas if you knew that there was a mix -- some things completely untried -- you would feel a greater freedom to trust your own reactions."
 Ms. Oppens's work shows a healthy reciprocity between the old and the new. She plays new music with a vivid sense of the tradition behind it. She plays old music with an ear for what is compositionally daring in it. Her bracing recording of Beethoven's "Hammerklavier" Sonata on Music and Arts, for example, reminds a listener that this piece was pathbreakingly modern in its time and should still sound that way.
 Reverence for composers was something Ms. Oppens grew up with. Her mother, born in Transylvania, studied music with Anton Webern in Vienna. Her father, Kurt Oppens, born in Germany, was a crusading music journalist. Being Jewish, they fled Europe for the United States in 1938. Ms. Oppens, an only child, was raised in a home where Webern, Schoenberg and Bartok were "taken for granted, part of the same canon as Beethoven," she said.
 But many struggling musicians passed through the household, complaining about their hard lives and unsettling Ms. Oppens's plans for a career in music. "My parents were very, very, very, very good about saying I should consider other things," she said. She went to Radcliffe, studied economics, majored in English, but found her way back to the piano.
 When she started working with composers, she realized that making music did not have to be reverential drudgery. "The chance to work with a composer, to learn something accurately, to be a part of history -- that's kind of thrilling," she said. "It's like taking advantage of what's in your own back yard."
 Over the years her curiosity has led Ms. Oppens to back yards far from the musical neighborhood of her youth. In 1983 she was part of a touring program sponsored by the New York State Council on the Arts. It presented Ms. Oppens playing Mr. Carter's "Night Fantasies," the jazz composer Muhal Richard Abrams and his ensemble, and the World Saxophone Quartet. She developed a musical and personal relationship with the jazz composer Julius Hemphill, a founding member of the quartet, which still continues.
 "I've always thought that in a blind listening test, anyone who knows me well could guess that I would have fallen in love with Julius's music," Ms. Oppens said. Mr. Hemp hill's music, drawing from free jazz, rhythm and blues, funk and be-bop, deftly balances elements of spontaneity and structure. A similar balance in Mr. Hemphill's personality also attracted Ms. Oppens.
 "Julius is less neurotic than I," she said. "He's centered, has more confidence. He's helped me have more confidence."
 Mr. Hemphill said, "I guess we're as different as people could be." He is 54 and black, was born in Fort Worth and played in bands with Ike Turner. "When we met," he added, "I was kind of teasing her, asking her out to dinner, basically being a wise guy. From that we started seeing each other. We've been making the most of it ever since.
 "I think she is a musical genius. She has these gigantic ears. Her faith in music is what probably attracted me to her. I'm not especially interested in classical music. When I was coming up, classical music was a whole other realm, aside from being basically segregated. I applaud Ursula's open-mindedness, a quality she has in abundance. That's probably why we get along."
 Ms. Oppens has put her gigantic ears and open mind at the service of several other composers who have worked in jazz, including Anthony Braxton, Carla Bley and Anthony Davis. She has had the courage, rare among classical pianists, to perform works that call for improvisation. "What I particularly like about improvisation is that there are no mistakes," she said. "Whatever you play, by doing the next thing, you can make the previous thing seem right."
 Ms. Oppens regrets that performers are discouraged from trying to improvise and compose -- requisite skills until early in this century. "Today you're made to feel you shouldn't do something you're not very good at," she said. "We're so caught up with the pursuit of the best. A Carnegie Hall recital is supposed to represent the best. And I'll try to live up to it. But there should be much more risk, more willingness to allow for things that may not be the best in order to get to another level entirely."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (56%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSIC (93%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); 

PERSON: OPPENS, URSULA; TOMMASINI, ANTHONY JOHN HARRIS HARBISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



408 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 3118 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Is Disney the Newest Broadway Baby?

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
ATTENTION, PLEASE.
This season, the role of the Beast, usually played on Broadway by the Shubert Organization with its 16 theaters, will be played instead by the Walt Disney Company, which is almost single-handedly rejuvenating 42d Street by renovating the New Amsterdam Theater. It is also producing the most expensive Broadway musical in theater history, opening tomorrow night at the Palace Theater. 
 What's that? Booing? Applause?
Both.
It is the oldest tradition in the theater to giveth with one hand and clubbeth with the other, and this year is no different. Broadway is finding that it loves to love Disney. But it still can't help hating itself in the morning.
"This is a world that needs targets," says Michael David of Dodger Productions, the general manager of "Beauty and the Beast." "It just comes with the territory. I told the Disneys they'd better enjoy the process of getting the show up 'cause afterward everyone will be shooting bullets."
The rivalry is intensified because this time, real estate is involved, not to mention government subsidy in the form of a $21 million low-interest loan to help Disney renovate the 91-year-old New Amsterdam, a perk that other Broadway theater owners have historically been denied. One of them calls the Disney situation similar to Wal-Mart opening in a small town, sending the local merchants into an escalating panic.
The quality of merchandise that Disney brings is top-drawer. "Beauty and the Beast" arrives on Broadway at an official cost of nearly $12 million with a cast of 38, headed by Terrence Mann as the Beast, Susan Egan as the Beauty and Tom Bosley as her father, plus the arsenal of Disney special effects transferred to the stage. The movie version won two Academy Awards for best score and best song ("Beauty and the Beast") by Alan Menken and the late Howard Ashman, and since its release in 1991 has earned about $350 million worldwide. It doesn't take a genius to see that this property has legs and, as far as Disney is concerned, the more pairs the better. If "Cats" can flourish on the road for 14 years, why not "Beauty and the Beast"?
Mr. Menken and the lyricist Tim Rice have written seven new songs to augment the fairy tale about a prince freed of an evil spell by the power of true love, which should continue to please Disney's family audience in yet another medium. Whether it pleases the people who work in that medium is another issue.
Money, of course, is a key reason for industry sniping about this show. As is power. And control. And expertise.
Disney maintains that "Beauty and the Beast" cost $11.9 million to produce, which surpasses "Miss Saigon," the last most expensive Broadway musical at $10.9 million. But some "Beast" employees have put costs between $16 and $19 million. No one will ever know the truth, they say, because, as a large corporation, Disney can itemize expenses for the show in a variety of different accounts.
"That's ridiculous," says Michael Eisner, chief executive officer and chairman of the Walt Disney Company. "The show costs less than $12 million. Every expense is charged to the show's budget only, otherwise we couldn't accurately report to our participants. Anyway, we never talk about budgets in our businesses because then the budget gets reviewed, not the product."
Even if the cost is $11.9 million, that's still a lot of money by Broadway standards, if not Disney's. Can jealous fellow producers at least hope it will take years to recoup the investment, especially given the Palace's hard-to-sell second balcony?
Bob McTyre, a Disney executive in charge of theme parks who is the designate producer of "Beauty and the Beast," estimates recoupment at one year, which for a show this size is remarkably fast. He says that after opening, the musical will settle down to costing about $380,000 per week, a figure some Broadway skeptics call low. But the skeptics may be wrong. One reason is that instead of hiring high-priced veteran Broadway talent, Disney has elected to use many of its own salaried staff, keeping expenses down, and in the bargain, exercising tight control over all artistic decisions.
And Disney being Disney, the ways those costs will be recouped won't be traditional, either. As the merchandising wizard of the Western world, Disney sold almost $10,000 worth of "Beauty and the Beast" memorabilia at the first New York preview alone. A "Beauty and the Beast" boutique opened at Bloomingdale's on April 4. And, an employee says, there are plans to step up sales of "Beauty and the Beast" videocassettes.
Mr. Eisner does not dispute this. "We have a hockey team in California called the Mighty Ducks that has some fabulous merchandising," he says. "Does it help the economics of the Mighty Ducks to see the logo, the sweatshirts, the hats around the world? Absolutely. Are we counting on the same for 'Beauty and the Beast'? No, it's not in our business plan. But we hope it will help."
And, he adds: "As far as a year being a short time to recoup an investment, all I can say is, as a businessman, a year is a ridiculously long time not to recoup an investment. The way it will work, frankly, is the road, the companies of the show in Tokyo and Toronto. And high school and college productions that will be forever."
THAT MONEY COMES LATER. Right now, the Broadway advance sale of $6 million (with a top ticket price of $65), is surprisingly low. "The Goodbye Girl," for example, a flop musical from last season, opened with a $10 million advance. Conversely, "The Phantom of the Opera" opened in 1988 with an $18 million advance and a lower ($50) top ticket price. For "Beauty and the Beast" at the Palace, where the potential weekly gross is $686,425, this advance sale adds up to just nine weeks of capacity business.
Mr. David, of Dodger, says only 15 weeks of the show are on sale, in order to sell every seat. "The advance is actually bigger than I thought," he says. "This show and 'Phantom' have nothing in common. 'Phantom' ran as a hit musical in London for over a year. 'Beauty and the Beast' hasn't proven anything past being a wonderful animated feature."
Mr. Eisner says: "The advance is irrelevant to me. What interests me is how well the show is done, and is it financially feasible and profitable enough to encourage us in this field. If we do it in a quality way, the financial rewards will be there. If somebody else is more clever about selling seats in August then so be it. I'm working on making the show the best it can be on April 18."
Mr. David emphasizes that Disney's low-key strategy in New York is similar to the way it approached the show's monthlong tryout in Houston, where it sold out. "The plan is to let the show make itself an event," Mr. David says.
But Houston is not New York. "There isn't a review that can be written to make up for a low advance," says James Freydberg, a veteran Broadway producer. "There's no question that this show is a big event to be shouted about, but they haven't done that. And events take place before reviews."
A recurring industry gripe about "Beauty and the Beast" is that despite Disney's financial resources, it has not employed the best, most experienced directors and designers the theater has to offer.
"Our team is not just Disney people," Mr. McTyre, the producer, protests. He ticks off the names of Mr. David of Dodger, Ann Hould-Ward and Natasha Katz, the costume and lighting designers, respectively.
Yes, but the word from the Palace, says one employee, speaking on condition of anonymity, is that no one could change a single moment of the show without the express permission of Jeffrey Katzenberg, chairman of Walt Disney Studios. The overwhelming feeling is that the experts who are there were not allowed to do their jobs.
"I'm sure somebody might perceive it that way," Mr. McTyre allows. "The Walt Disney Company does have its own way of operating, and the theatrical experience from our point of view is a collaborative one, not a strictly hierarchical one. Though certain decisions Jeffrey or Michael make. They talk and give ideas, and if someone doesn't agree, they say so. They are pretty darn smart guys, and it just so happens a lot of their suggestions are good ones."
Mr. Eisner also defends the approach: "We're in the movie business and we deal with both major star directors and unknown U.S.C. film school graduates, and some of each group has fabulous results and some are horrible. When I was at Paramount and we produced 'My One and Only' on Broadway with Tommy Tune and Mike Nichols, that was exhilarating and horrible. We chose our own people because of morale. In our parks we put on live entertainment and spend more on it than all of Broadway put together. And these are theater people, from Juilliard or Cal Arts. They come to Walt Disney World because there's work. I couldn't imagine doing 'Beauty and the Beast' and saying to them, 'We're going to eliminate you.' "
Mr. McTyre reiterates, "If I had it to do over, I'd use the same people." Even though the word on the street most consistently used to describe the show's creators is "amateur"?
"I think it will be right for our audience this way," he says. "We wanted the production to be a Disney production, not just funded by Disney. And to do that we felt we needed people with a Disney sensibility. In everything we do we are dedicated to having characters be the same as they are on film or television. Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, Snow White. We try to bring those characters to life the way people would remember them. We had some creative angst about what the designs should look like, how far we could go. And in Houston we ended up burying the actors in costumes and makeup."
The other angst, a Disney insider says, came from typical tryout jitters: "None of them had any idea what Broadway entails. And after all the bad publicity with Euro Disney, they felt vulnerable to failure."
A Disney success posed another potential problem. A ticket to the touring ice show version of "Beauty and the Beast" costs only $25. That's some difference. And it raises the question of how hungry people really are for this story in all its myriad forms.
Mr. McTyre says the ice show is scheduled for New York next winter. But even when traveling elsewhere, doesn't it deplete the tourist market, which has to be considered a significant segment of this audience?
"It's certainly possible," he says. "We call that cannibalization. The only way to really know is to do it. Usually in the Broadway theaters children under 5 are not allowed. But we don't follow that policy. We know it is not inexpensive to go to the theater. We have $20 seats in the balcony."
David Geffen, the entertainment mogul who has co-produced "Cats," among other Broadway musicals, says: "All you have to do to be a successful producer is believe enough to do it, have the money to afford it and be lucky enough to have a hit. They have the things they believe in and, God knows, they have money. They're very smart and very rich, so there's no reason not to be successful."
As they surely will be on 42d Street with the New Amsterdam, a 1,700-seat former Ziegfeld palace between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. In addition to the loan for the renovation, Disney is putting up $8 million of its own, and Mr. Eisner says chances are good that a Disney store will open there by 1996, when the project is to be completed. The company has stated its intention to produce musicals at the New Amsterdam, and word is their next will be "Mary Poppins." (Mr. Eisner confirms that the project has been discussed, though he says nothing has been decided.)
When the New Amsterdam plans were first announced, the three Broadway theater owners, Shubert, Nederlander and Jujamcyn, were enraged at Disney's privileged position. They called on the theatrical unions to boycott the company's presence, but the unions didn't bite.
Ron Silver, president of Actors' Equity says: "I'm thrilled Michael Eisner is coming in. We have very few opportunities to increase employment for our membership."
SO THE THEATER OWNERS found they ultimately had no choice but to retreat from the Disney protest. They have joined a fact-finding committee of unions to formulate their own proposal for a low-interest fund for repair and upkeep of all 35 Broadway theaters. Still, the fact remains that Disney got cash up front, while the old guard has only promises. And lingering resentment.
But the theater owners aside, there are high hopes among the rest of the business that this new Beast in their midst will be transformed quickly by true love -- of Broadway -- and thrive, expanding its ranks and providing jobs for decades to come.
"First-time producers pay a high tuition on Broadway," Mr. David says. "They learn the first time, but they don't have the stomach to stick around for the next. Experience, wisdom and continuity are what make a good producer. Anyone who says they're going to stay and fight it out is good for all of us. These guys are going to hang in and presumably what they learn will apply again. We'll see how it goes."
 
 
Deep in the Magic Kingdom of Special Effects
 Yes, "Beauty and the Beast" will be Broadway's most expensive musical when it opens tomorrow night at the Palace Theater. And yes, it will have more special effects, pyrotechnics, magical illusions, evolving costumes and computer-driven set changes than any show in Broadway history. But surprisingly, Robert Jess Roth, the show's 31-year-old director, has spent much of his time scaling back. "We never wanted effects for the sake of having effects," he says. "The technology is useful only if it helps us tell the story." Based on interviews with a dozen members of the production team, here is a brief behind-the scenes look at the show. GLEN COLLINS
 Slow-Mo -- The show's designers did not want to trot out actors in foam-rubber representations of animated characters. Instead, it was decided to change the mythology of the film, where the enchanted objects in the castle are humans already transformed into objects by the spell of the Enchantress. In the musical, the spell takes effect gradually, in measured amounts, and the audience is the witness. Mrs. Potts (Played by Beth Fowler, left), the busy English housekeeper, comes onstage in a hoop skirt that has the silhouette of a teapot; soon, the skirt evolves into a hard-bodied teapot with steam coming out of its spout.
 Press-a-Button World -- About $5 million worth of computer equipment governs the sorcery of "Beauty and the Beast." Computers mind everything, says Jeremiah J. Harris, the production supervisor, from the 34 candles that pop up sequentially during one number of the show's 1,000 pieces of scenery and the two elevators that deliver cast, sets and props to the stage. There, scenery rides silently on runners beneath the floor; these are activated by electric winches that pull the sets through slits in the stage. Computers control the stationary lights and the 60 moving Vari-Lites, powered beams that are individually focused and programmed. Computers also balance the sound from the 38 miked actors and 26 musicians.
 Wood-Chopping Widget -- It wheezes, it whizzes, it hiccups and it backfires: it's the incredible contraption dreamed up by Belle's father, Maurice (Tom Bosley, at left, with Susan Egan as Belle), the Gyro Gearloose of the village in the show. The one-of-a-kind electric-powered machine manages to accomplish a single task with remarkable inefficiency: wood-chopping. Remote-controlled pyrotechnic devices aboard create its shooting sparks. These are activated by infrared remote control. So is the automatic log-chopping mechanism, which can cut two logs in half without any intervention by Beauty or Beast.
 Transformations -- The term makeup is hardly large enough to describe visual alterations that include a beast who turns into a handsome prince and a Gallic waiter whose head evolves into a wax-dripping candle. In Fact, the production designers use another term for the show's elaborate shape-changing devices: "prosthetic add-ons." They were created for the characters by one of the designers, John Dods. For example, six separate pieces of foam latex give the actor Terrence Mann the facial asymmetry of the Beast. In full costume, Mr. Mann wears a chest piece, thigh padding, a rear-end enchancer and a haunch extender. It takes the actor an hour and a half to don his makeup and costume before every show, and the process is extravagant: the latex pieces are not reusable.
 Aaaoooooo! -- When they aren't working diligently to bring about the demise of the Beast, they're attacking unwary travelers in the primordial Disney forest: They are the wild wolves of the Palace Theater, with their feral yellow eyes and menacing teeth. Essential to this menace is the blackness of the stage forest, the thick layer of ground fog, the profusion of stage smoke and a strobelight effect that blinds the audience at crucial moments during wolf attacks. Why? Because the actors who manipulate the animal puppets won't be visible then. The sickly yellow eyes? Battery powered. You were expecting sorcery?
 Fire Drill -- There are 32 pyrotechnic occurrences in the musical, including the steam that emerges from Mrs. Potts's tea spout. The most spectacular occurs during "Be Our Guest," a lavish production number in which champagne bottles blow their corks and fiery wine bubbles create a fizz of light. The pyrotechnics are usually fired with electronic triggers, using remote-controlled transmitters that are digitally encoded so that passing CB radios cannot accidentally set them off. The fireball the Enchantress throws, transforming the surly Prince into the Beast, took more than a year to develop and is patented, says Tyler Wymer, the pyrotechnics designer for Walt Disney Productions.
 Hocus-Pocus -- There are half a dozen magic illusions in the show, most of which the designers are reluctant to discuss. One, operated by remote control, is crucial to the plot: petals keep falling from a red rose under a glass dome, a reminder that the deadline for breaking the spell of the Enchantress is fast approaching. Unless released by love, the Beast and all of the enchanted objects will never regain human form. The most baffling illusions are the scenes in which Chip, the teacup with the head of a little boy, is seen to talk and move realistically, even though he has no means of visible support: the legs of a tea cart are where his body should be. The illusions, some of the oldest in magic, employ an angled miror to permit the actor, Brian Press, to fit his body in the cart.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Terrence Mann is the Beast and Susan Egan the Beauty in the musical opening tomorrow at the Palace Theater -- Broadway is finding that it loves to love Disney, but it still can't help hating itself in the morning.
 
Photo: Brian Press plays Chip, the teacup. (Joan Marcus/"Beauty and the Beast")
 
Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times (middle left, center, top right); photographs by Joan Marcus/"Beauty and the Beast" (top and bottom left, middle and bottom right)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BEAUTY AND THE BEAST (PLAY)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMES SQUARE (NYC); FORTY-SECOND STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); SONG WRITING (76%); MUSIC (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (66%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994



409 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Lisbon Marches to Its Own Drummer

BYLINE: By Ana Westley 

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
INVESTORS in Lisbon's small but booming stock market were barely ruffled when rising American interest rates sent most European markets into a turmoil last month. Never mind the bears on Wall Street, forget the wild swings in neighboring Madrid. Portugal is on its own cycle.
Foreign investment and falling local interest rates have been fueling a strong rally that began more than a year ago and is likely to continue, albeit at a slower pace. Lisbon's widely followed BVL index had already soared 53 percent in 1993, reaching a high of 848.54 on the last day of the year. Defying all predictions, the index continued to climb at an even dizzier pace throughout the first two months of this year, zooming up to 999.46 on Feb. 18, just short of the psychologically important 1,000 mark, which was last surpassed in October 1989. 
 While other European markets confronted post-Easter plunges, Lisbon has remained an island of relative calm. The BVL index slid slowly down in April to the 970's, which experts consider a long overdue technical correction. It may now ease upward again. On Friday, the index closed at 973.77.
"The Lisbon bourse is less influenced by outside events and will probably continue to have a sustained increase, though not as strong as last year's surge," said Jose Cardoso de Matos, marketing director of the Lisbon exchange.
Though the Lisbon exchange, which some international funds classify as "emerging," is small and narrow by European standards, money has been pouring in. Over the last year, the volume of local currency trading has shot up 186.4 percent, to 56.05 trillion escudos ($320.6 million) last month.
"The amount of money coming in is really tremendous," said Francisco D'Orey, a trader at Mello Valores, a Lisbon brokerage firm. In three years, he said, the daily trading volume has jumped tenfold, to more than 3 billion escudos. In dollar terms, daily trading has jumped to $15 million to $20 million, from $5 million to $10 million in the first half of last year.
Most analysts agree that reforms in late 1991 gave Portugal's market international credibility. Insider trading was outlawed and automation increased liquidity. The market, now 90 percent computerized with continuous trading, has become more inviting to outsiders. By late 1992, foreign fund managers began to take notice.
"They all tell me that Lisbon is still cheap compared with overvalued European stocks," Mr. Cardoso de Matos said.
Brokers agree that the first six months of 1993 were driven by frenzied foreign investment, especially American investment. But as interest rates began to crash, falling from 14 percent last year to just under 9 percent in March, local institutional investors jumped in to join the rally.
"With risk-free high returns on T-bonds, mutual funds had no time for equity portfolios," said Eduardo Stock da Cunha of Banco Santander de Negocios, a Spanish merchant bank in Lisbon. Now, he said, "funds managed by our asset management company went up by 200 percent in 1993 and we set up two stock market funds in six months."
Prime Minister Anibal Carvaci Silva forecast in March that rates could be shaved another 2 points by year's end. Inflation, currently 6.1 percent, is expected to slide to between 4.5 and 5.5 percent by the end of 1994.
Portugal's Finance Ministry is determined to continue to push its privatization program. Four companies -- two cement makers, Secil and Cimpor, and two paper pulp companies, Portucel and Celbi -- will be on the market by summer. Electricidade de Portugal (E.D.P.), Portugal Telecom and Petrogal are scheduled for 1995. The Finance Ministry predicts that these three giants alone will increase market capitalization by 5 percent.
Limits on foreign investment are to be waived and some companies may be floated on international exchanges. "This Government is more favorable to capital markets," said Jose Freyre, a market analyst at Banco Espirito Santo.
While practically any stock did well last year, experts are now urging more caution and selectivity. Blue chip banks such as Banco Comercial Portugues, Banco Espirito Santo, Banco Totta e Acores and Banco Portugues do Atlantico are still favored by traders. Shrinking profit margins caused by falling interest rates are being offset by service commissions that banks have started charging.
Despite spectacular gains in 1993, traders continue to recommend the star performers in the retail and distribution sector, which is widely viewed as underdeveloped. Sonae's Modelo/Continente, whose share price rose 320 percent last year, is considered a good buy, along with Jeronimo Martins, which has expanded with an acquisitions policy.
"There are smallish companies that gained over 50 percent last year and still stand to gain more," said Pedro Assuncao, an analyst at Central de Investimentos, a brokerage company. He likes Sumolis, a soft drink company. Traders also recommend the beer brewers Unicer and Centralcer.
Graca Carvalho, of Totta Dealer, a brokerage firm, warns that many companies are already overvalued and attention must be paid to results. She recommends Corticeira Amorim, the largest cork company in the world, which just posted a profit increase of 38 percent.
Mr. D'Orey of Mello Valores went further, recommending "anything in cork, as people around the world will unpop more corked bottles as the economy picks up."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LISBON, PORTUGAL (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (57%); 

COMPANY: LISBON STOCK EXCHANGE

ORGANIZATION: LISBON STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTUGAL; EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LISBON, PORTUGAL (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); CURRENCIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

PERSON: WESTLEY, ANA

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1994



410 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Hoax Unravels: 'Missing' Baby Is Found Dead

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A Canadian couple's stunning but suspicious tale of a baby's disappearance in Central Park was exposed as a hoax yesterday as the parents gave the police a dramatic new account, saying they found the child dead in her crib 10 days ago and abandoned the body in a Quebec woods.
Confronted by evidence that they had only an older child with them when they crossed the American border and when they checked into a New York City hotel, the parents said they had concocted the story because they had been accused of abusing a foster child at home in St. Romain, Quebec, last year and feared serious new charges. 
 And they said they had decided to drive 400 miles and tell the bizarre tale in New York, where they thought it might be lost in the crowd of daily deaths, disappearances and other urban woes.
As an overnight park search by helicopters, scuba divers and 100 officers was called off, the parents, Joseph Bales, 33, and Helene Lemay, 31, drew a crude map that led the Canadian police to a woods near Eastman, Quebec. There the body of 10-week-old Muguet Bales was found wrapped in plastic and tucked in a knapsack under a tree.
The cause of her death was not immediately apparent, and Canadian officials said an autopsy would be performed today. Pending the outcome, the parents were being held in New York on a misdemeanor charge of making a false report, but could face more serious charges in Canada.
"These aren't hardened criminals," Assistant Chief John J. Hill, the chief of detectives in Manhattan, said at an afternoon news conference at the 20th Precinct station on West 82d Street. "If they were hardened criminals, they wouldn't have made such stupid blunders."
While the strange case unfolded in New York, residents of St. Romain, a village of fewer than 1,000 people 35 miles north of the Maine-New Hampshire border, portrayed the couple as unusual neighbors: Seventh-day Adventists in a Roman Catholic community, strict vegetarians who worked odd jobs, avoided visitors, did not allow toys and planned to educate their children at home.
A medical examination of the couple's 4-year-old daughter, Priscille, found no signs of abuse, and after more than a day at the station house -- gobbling ice cream, grinning for photographers and dozing on a squad-room cot -- she is to be placed today with Canadian child-welfare authorities while investigators tried to sort out the twists and turns of a case riddled with deception and mystery.
What began Saturday afternoon as a French-speaking couple's account of a baby's apparent kidnapping from a carrier while her father slept on a park bench near West 67th Street unraveled in less than 12 hours as detectives -- suspicious at first because the parents could not explain why they had waited 18 hours to report the case -- turned up one contradiction after another.
 
$120 and No Jobs
 While the couple said they came to New York with their two children Friday as tourists and first went to the luxurious Pierre Hotel on Fifth Avenue, they acknowledged that both were unemployed, had rented a car with a credit card and had only $120 in their possession.
Moreover, customs agents at Massena, N.Y., where they crossed into the United States, had noted only one child in their car, and a clerk at the Roger Williams Hotel, at 28 East 31st Street, where they finally checked in at 10:53 P.M. Friday, also remembered only one child.
Priscille, who was not told of her sister's death, was apparently under the impression that the baby was along on the trip, sleeping a lot, but the police said she had been fooled by a doll her parents had brought along to simulate the missing infant.
Although the couple met with reporters and television camera crews at the station house Saturday night and made a tearful public appeal for the return of their baby, detectives said the parents were unable to satisfactorily explain why -- after supposedly losing the baby about 7 P.M. -- they had checked into a hotel four hours later and failed to go to the police until midafternoon Saturday.
While scuba divers, helicopters and ground teams searched the park for Muguet, the parents kept vigil at the station house and were questioned by detectives. They insisted the family spoke no English, and their comments were interpreted by a French-speaking officer, Sgt. Sean O'Neill. But when a detective asked if anyone wanted ice cream, Priscille piped up.
"Yes," she said, "I want ice cream."
 
Recent Fraud Arrest
 Besides the gaps and contradictions in the parents' accounts, the police learned late Saturday night from Canadian authorities that Mr. Bales had recently been arrested on a fraud charge -- the case has not yet gone to court -- and that the couple had been accused of child abuse last year, Chief Hill said.
He said a foster son about 4 years old, whom the couple had taken into their home over a year ago, had been found alone in their car at a Quebec mall last September. The boy, described by neighbors in St. Romain as severely retarded, unable to speak or walk, was undernourished and dehydrated and showed signs of prior injuries, including fractures. He was quickly taken from their custody.
Confronted with the evidence of their background and misrepresentations, the couple admitted that they had made up the story of the baby's disappearance to conceal what they called the infant's unexplained crib death at their home in St. Romain on April 8 and their decision to abandon the body that day, Chief Hill said.
"They had a history of child abuse," he said. "They were concerned that they were in trouble."
The mother broke down first, then the father, the police said. In statements that essentially matched each other in detail, Chief Hill said, the couple told of wrapping the body in three plastic bags, putting it in a knapsack and then into the trunk of their car. They put a doll on the front seat, he said, so Priscille would think the baby was asleep beside them.
They told the police they drove 75 miles southwest to Eastman, a village 20 miles north of the Vermont line, and parked in a wooded area. While his wife stayed with Priscille, Mr. Bales climbed a fence, walked 100 yards into the woods and left the knapsack between two trees, according to the account they gave the police.
 
Couple Moved Abruptly
 The next day, neighbors in St. Romain saw a moving van outside their home and the couple -- after three years in the community -- abruptly moved 200 miles away to Cornwall, Ontario, on the St. Lawrence River 75 miles west of Montreal.
In the ensuing week, the police said, the couple decided to concoct the story of a baby's disappearance and tell it in New York City. The police said it unfolded like this:
After arriving in New York late Friday and discovering that the Pierre Hotel was too expensive, they checked in at the Roger Williams. They examined various spots in Central Park the next day to familiarize themselves with details, and in the afternoon walked up to a guard at the Museum of Natural History and asked how to report a missing baby. They were directed to the 20th Precinct nearby, and soon after they told the tale the search got under way.
Tom McConnell, a spokesman for the provincial police, said the baby was found with the aid of a map drawn by the parents and faxed to Canadian authorities. The body was taken to Montreal, where an autopsy is to be performed today.
The police in New York said the couple had signed a waiver of extradition and were prepared to return to Quebec to face whatever charges might arise out of the case.
 
An Unusual Family
 Neighbors in St. Romain yesterday recalled an unusual family that had lived quietly on the outskirts of the village in a modest split-level home. Mr. Bales was said to be a handyman who occasionally did odd jobs and last worked in a furniture factory six months ago.
Ms. Lemay was described by a neighbor, Marie-Michelle St. Jean, as a highly intelligent woman who had earned several university degrees in psychology, who had a computer and photocopier at home and earned a living teaching correspondence courses on dieting and other subjects.
Ms. St. Jean said she baby-sat for Priscille when Muguet, whose name means lily of the valley, was born about 10 weeks ago. She described Priscille as a "radiant, extraordinarily happy" child who was strangely adult for her age.
It was unclear if the couple was married, but neighbors said they apparently intended to have many children and had divided their small home into many bedroom cubicles.
Ms. St. Jean said that after Ms. Lemay had a miscarriage 18 months ago, the couple decided to adopt a foster child in the belief that she could not have more children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two members of the Police Department's scuba squad searching the Lake in Central Park on Saturday for the 2-month-old daughter of a Canadian couple. The parents admitted yesterday that they dumped the girl's body in the woods in Quebec more than a week ago after finding her dead in her crib. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Map of Quebec showing location of Eastman. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY HOTELS SA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST ROMAIN (QUEBEC); EASTMAN (QUEBEC); NEW YORK CITY; CENTRAL PARK (NYC); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE; MISSING PERSONS; HOAXES INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FOSTER CARE (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); AUTOPSIES (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); MISDEMEANORS (74%); WATER SPORTS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); RELIGION (61%); HELICOPTERS (53%); SCUBA DIVING (53%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: LEMAY, HELENE; BALES, JOSEPH; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D JOSEPH BALES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



411 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Booming Auto Sales Mean Waiting Lists for Some

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 17

 BODY:
What had seemed a stately recovery in the auto market turned into a boom this year, and some dealers' lots are emptying even as auto makers are piling on the overtime to raise production.
Particularly for buyers of four-wheel-drive wagons and other light trucks, the wait for vehicles with the options they want can stretch beyond three months. 
 "I don't know how anyone could have anticipated the strength of this market," said Ron Sobrero, general sales and service manager for the Chevrolet division of General Motors, which has long waiting lists for everything from sporty Camaro coupes and convertibles to the colossal Suburban wagons.
He added, "You'd rather have a better balance."
As dealers sense a sellers' market, the prices customers pay are rising, in some cases over the sticker price. Shortages in the auto industry, which occurred in other recoveries in the 70's and 80's, illustrate the strength of the economy, said David L. Littmann, senior economist with Comerica Bank here. "It's highly significant, because it represents perhaps most clearly the confidence of the consumer," he said.
In February, for the first time since the Government began tracking the data, the American auto industry was operating at slightly more than 100 percent of existing factory capacity for production of cars and light trucks, according to a Federal Reserve index. (Such capacity numbers are squishy; by paying more overtime and taking other steps, the auto makers say they can wring out vehicles at a rate of 120 percent of capacity.)
In November 1978, the record before January 1994, capacity utilization was more than 92 percent.
"The demand factor is monstrous," said Larry Rogers, a salesman at Elder-Mohns Ford in Jefferson, Wis. He said that for some pickups, in particular the large F-series truck with a diesel engine, the wait can be as long as four months. "Those on the waiting list may be looking at a '95 model, not a '94," he said.
Economists predict that the effect of rising prices and too few cars on overall inflation is likely to be mild. But the Government says its method of calculating inflation may not fully reflect the surging interest in pickup trucks, mini-vans and four-wheel-drive vehicles.
After the brutal plant closings of the 80's, the auto makers are reluctant to expand, an attitude that is fine with auto industry analysts.
"In the very short term, it's a small problem, but generally speaking I think it's a good thing," said John Casesa, the auto industry analyst for Wertheim Schroder & Company in New York. "The guys who run the Big Three recognize that this will not last, and they're not going to rush out and build new plants."
By restraining sales now, tight capacity will help prevent the cyclical recovery of the auto market from peaking earlier than expected, many industry analysts say, producing strong sales through 1996. Further, they do not expect the constraints to have much impact on market shares or company earnings, since the types of vehicles in shortest supply are practically sold out from one auto maker to the next.
 
Frustrating to Customers
 The rush for vehicles is not necessarily good news for dealers, since it can frustrate customers. Mr. Rogers said customers had threatened to report him to the Wisconsin Department of Motor Vehicles after he failed to find them the truck they wanted after he called other dealers. "I can't be held accountable for something that's not there," he said.
Automotive News, the weekly trade publication, is once again selling classified ads bought by dealers in search of hot-selling cars. "REWARD: $1,000 over invoice on New '94 Dodge Ram Pickups," one ad read last week.
"Most of the people calling me have something a little odd," said David Blackert, general manager of Executive Dodge in Wallingford, Conn., who placed the ad. For example, he said, he has received offers of pickups that can function like dump trucks. "I'll take them all," he said, even though he is paying a premium. "There's a market for all of them."
The domestic auto makers are caught in a classic bind. Because American and Japanese plants in the United States can make only so many cars and trucks, sales growth is likely to slow this spring. But while they are scrambling to bolster worker productivity and eliminate production bottlenecks, the companies are loath to add the factory space that is so costly to idle later.
By pricing Japanese imports well above their domestic rivals, the strong yen has helped to tighten the American market, effectively taking Japan's vast capacity out of the picture. Imported vehicles commanded only 15 percent of the American market in 1993, down from more than 26 percent in 1987, according to an analysis by Stephen J. Girsky, the auto industry analyst for Paine Webber.
 
'A Very Healthy Sign'
 Tight capacity "is a very healthy sign for the domestics, particularly," said Sonny Sonoguchi, president and chief executive of Mazda Motor of America. "The Japanese are not in the same very favorable position. Because of the yen situation and the pricing, we are still struggling to compete, to stay competitive."
Nevertheless, Mazda sales are also surging, and the assembly plant it operates as a joint venture with Ford in Flat Rock, Mich., has been at 100 percent capacity since October. The plant builds the Ford Probe, Mazda 626 sedan and Mazda MX-6 coupe.
In the first three months of the year, car sales increased 15.3 percent over last year's level, while light- truck sales jumped 22.8 percent. In March, Chrysler, Ford and G.M. each reported the highest monthly truck sales ever.
Detroit's car production rose 14.9 percent in the first quarter, and truck output rose 19.8 percent.
As the startling trend became unmistakable this spring, industry analysts scurried to their calculators to revise their sales projections upward for the year. "By the time we started getting into mid-February, I figured uh-oh," said David Bradley, the auto analyst for J. P. Morgan. Mr. Bradley raised his estimate for 1994 to almost 15.6 million car and light-truck sales, from 15.2 million; that compares with 13.9 million sales last year.
Switching over an existing plant to assemble a new vehicle -- let alone building a brand-new factory -- is a lengthy, expensive proposition. For example, to make more of its popular Explorer sport-utility vehicles, Ford plans to outfit a St. Louis assembly plant that now makes a rear-wheel-drive mini-van. To make the switch, part of the plant will shut down in August; the first Explorer is not scheduled to roll off the line until January 1995. Ford, which many analysts regard as one of the world's most efficient auto makers, says the changeover will cost $400 million.
 
 
58-Day Supply
 On average, dealers' inventories of cars and trucks are well below where they were a year ago at this time. Since sales generally pick up in the spring, dealers try to stock up in the preceding months, to have at least 70 selling days' supply on hand. But at the end of March, dealers had only 58 days' worth of domestically produced cars, compared with 69 days a year earlier and 59 days' worth of domestically produced light trucks, compared to 78 last year, according to Ward's Automotive Reports.
Luxurious sport-utility vehicles are not the only hot sellers. Dealers have only 30 days' supply of the Chevrolet Cavalier, a small car that has not been redesigned in 13 years. Sales have soared since last fall, when Chevrolet introduced a "value priced" version of the car, which has standard anti-lock brakes and other popular options; the coupe is $8,970 and the sedan is $9,120.
"We don't have anything," said Harold Schumaker, inventory control manager at Hank Graff Chevrolet in Davison, Mich. "We used to have no room in the front lot and the back lot and now we have all kinds of room."
He says that in some cases he does not worry about customers storming out, because they have nowhere to go. "If a customer gets mad because we don't have the Suburban he wants, and walks out the door," he said, "I wish him well: 'Good luck finding one, buddy, because no one has one.' "
 
 
Waiting for Chevys
 Waiting lists are common at Chevrolet dealerships, Mr. Sobrero said. Customers can drive away in unpopular models like the Lumina sedan without much problem. But if they want a Blazer sport-utility vehicle with particular options, they should be prepared for at least a five-week delay. For a Camaro, they will wait at least 10 weeks. And for the full-size Suburban, the wait will be four to six months.
When it comes to buying trucks, consumers have few alternatives to the Big Three, so production limits at Ford, Chrysler and G.M. leave them stranded. "Where are they going to go?" asked Mr. Bradley of J. P. Morgan. "They're going to bid up prices." The results will be good for the auto makers' earnings, but, he said, "there will be some inflation as a result of this tight supply."
A peculiarity in the way the Consumer Price Index is calculated may mean that rising truck prices will not push up the national rate. The formula for determining the relative impact of car and truck prices on the index was worked out between 1982 and 1984, before light trucks soared to 40 percent of vehicle sales last year.
As a result, a 10 percent jump in truck prices would raise the C.P.I. by only nine-hundredths of a percentage point, said Patrick C. Jackman, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. By contrast, a 10 percent jump in car prices would raise it by 40-hundredths of a point, he said.
Over the next three years, the auto makers, including the Big Three and foreign companies, plan to expand their capacity in the United States by at least 10 percent, from the current level of about 15 million units, according to Mr. Girsky of Paine Webber. The Big Three are using a cautious, targeted approach, adding a few workers here and there and shifting production among different factories rather than building new plants. BMW and Mercedes are building new assembly plants here, and Toyota recently doubled the production capacity of its Kentucky plant.
Some of the new production is intended for export, which may prevent the new factories from flooding the American market.
Most of the new capacity is committed to trucks. Truck capacity will grow by 15 to 20 percent in the next three years, compared with only 2 to 5 percent for cars, Mr. Girsky said. "As capacity comes on, the competition goes back to price and cost," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Busy Auto Makers" shows the percentage of car- and truck-making capacity utilized by foreign and domestic auto makers in the United States from 1991 to 1994. (Source: Federal Reserve); "Some of Those in Short Supply" shows the supply of unsold automobiles on dealers' lots for selected models. (Sources: Warde's Automotive Reports; car manufacturers)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (69%); SCHRODER & CO INC (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRICES; LABOR; OVERTIME; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; PRODUCTION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (87%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (65%); CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



412 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-7
 
TANKS ENTER BOSNIAN TOWN
Serbian armor entered the Bosnian town of Gorazde, causing panic as thousands of people were forced into the center of town, and the United Nations said Gorazde had become virtually defenseless. A1 

U.S. REVIEWING BOSNIA OPTIONS
The Clinton Administration was reviewing its options in Bosnia, still inclined not to use more military force, as some Senators renewed a call to lift an arms embargo on Bosnian Muslims. A7
 
A Royal Marine's death renewed Britain's debate on Bosnia. A7
 
The Russians were embarrassed over their failure in Bosnia. A7
 
A SOUTH AFRICAN WILD CARD
Mixed-race South Africans, a half step above blacks under apartheid, are now fearful of what black leadership might mean for them, and many are throwing their support to the white ruling party. A1
 
PAST CONFRONTING HUNGARY
Some Hungarians wanted to use a series of events this weekend recalling the deportation of Jews in World War II to confront anti-Semitism, but some of the country's leaders have resisted the effort. A3
 
POLITICAL DEFECTION IN JAPAN
A longtime leader of Japan's former governing party said he was leaving in an effort to become Prime Minister as part of a new alliance, dealing a potentially crippling blow to his party. A3
 
MEXICAN CALL FOR DEMOCRACY
The new presidential candidate of the ruling party in Mexico, while not supporting specific measures, has said that democratization of Mexico's system is essential to economic and social progress. A2
 
A Mexican magnate's kidnappers are demanding ransom. A2
 
RWANDA REBELS' UGANDA TIES
Rwanda's minority Tutsis helped bring the President of Uganda to power, and although the Ugandan Government denies it is aiding the Rwandan rebels, there clearly are ties between them. A6
 
Bank fraud charges threaten the Spanish Government. A3
 
Cairo Journal: A film with a mission stirs debate. A4
 
National A8-13
 
OFFERING HEALTH OPTIONS
Senator George Mitchell, with White House help, offered Democratic senators three cheaper modifications of President Clinton's health care legislation at a weekend retreat. A1
 
BUNKERS ABANDONED
After spending 11 years and $8 billion searching for ways to keep the Government running after a nuclear attack on Washington, the Pentagon will shelve its project as an antique of the cold war, military officials said. A1
 
AUTO BOOM MAY MEAN A WAIT
The boom in American auto sales has led to shortages and waiting lists for some buyers even as auto makers work overtime to increase production. In some cases, the shortages have raised prices. A1
 
WALL ST. FIRM REPORTS FRAUD
Kidder, Peabody & Company said it had discovered an elaborate bookkeeping fraud by the head of its government trading desk, which led it to record $350 million in profits that never existed. A1
 
PUNISHING PARENTS
As school systems try to keep children in class, more and more officials are applying pressure to parents of truant students. Officials in Florida, Ohio and Texas are prosecuting or fining parents whose children skip school. A1
 
NO SMOKING? NOT YET
The momentum is building, but the time does not seem to be ripe for Federal laws that would curtail the use of tobacco. The main reason may be that no one is sure what to do to stop people from smoking. A10
 
A MUSTANG MAN
President Clinton abandoned his bulletproof limousine to get back, briefly, behind the wheel of his most prized possession, a blue 1967 Mustang convertible. A8
 
IOWA'S HANDICAP
The tidy Main Streets and tall silos of Iowa once stood as a portrait of the nation's fundamental identity, but the state, which is 96 percent white, now scarcely represents America democratically. Officials there worry that may be an obstacle to luring businesses. A8
 
MILK HORMONE DISPUTE
Three lawmakers asserted that the Food and Drug Administration may have collaborated with the manufacturer of a genetically engineered dairy hormone in clearing the new drug for sale. A9
 
REMEMBERING WACO
As the anniversary of the fire that destroyed the Branch Davidian compound approached, sect members and supporters gathered to remember, criticize the Government, and sell T-shirts. A10
 
CALIFORNIA, AGAIN
There was almost an embarrassment of Federal officials in California over the weekend as Clinton aides continued to stroke the state with the most electoral votes. A13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A HOAX, AND A BABY'S DEATH
After a Canadian couple's tale of their baby's disappearance in Central Park Friday night unraveled, the authorities found the infant's body in the Quebec woods, where they said they had left it. A1
 
Sports C1-10
 
Baseball: Mets beat Astros. C7
 
Yankees top Tigers. C7
 
Three home runs for Dodgers' Snyder. C7
 
Basketball: Knicks fall to Hornets. C1
 
Nets clinch playoff spot. C8
 
Columns: Vecsey on Ron Hextall. C2
 
Golf: Floyd falters in Seniors. C4
 
Football: Jerry Jones, the one and only Cowboy. C4
 
Hockey: Rangers blank Islanders. C1
 
Devils lose to Sabres. C3
 
Horse Racing: Holy Bull represents Derby dilemma. C8
 
Obituaries B10
 
Ron Vawter, actor.
 
Business DigestD1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
A van Gogh as cause celebre. C11
 
Tribute to Robert Altman. C16
 
Theater: "Floyd Collins" in Philadelphia. C11
 
"Amphigorey: A Musicale." C14
 
Music: Australian aboriginal pop. C12
 
Phish at the Beacon. C14
 
"Common Ground." C16
 
"Ariadne auf Naxos." C16
 
Books: "A Rebel in Defense of Tradition." C16
 
Television: On the Menendez brothers. C11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Command presents.
 
The Gramm exemption.
 
Topics: Listening critically.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Peace at any price.
 
William Safire: Reds under the bed.
 
David Hackett Fischer: Myths of the midnight rider.
 
Bridge C12
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); RWANDA (93%); UGANDA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (60%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); RWANDA (93%); UGANDA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RELIGION (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); PRICE CHANGES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); ARMS EMBARGOES (56%); DEPORTATION (53%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



413 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Schools Prosecute Parents for Children's Truancy

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PALATKA, Fla., April 12

 BODY:
Ellen Freeman concedes that from last September to December she was less than attentive to her 10-year-old son's school attendance. Beset by personal problems and "fighting off another nervous breakdown," she said she actually kept him home sometimes simply to provide her with a focus and anchor -- some needed ballast in her storm-tossed life.
So it was with a mixture of contrition and bitter resignation two weeks ago that Ms. Freeman, an unemployed single mother of four, pleaded guilty in a court here to charges of failing to insure her son's school attendance. She was sentenced to 50 hours of community service in the schools. 
 "I pled guilty because I was having a lot of personal problems, and I just gave up," Ms. Freeman, 41, said the other day as she stood in the cluttered yard of her faded pink-and-white trailer here complaining that her failure was matched by the school system's. "I pled guilty because I was tired of fighting the school system for some help with my son."
Ms. Freeman was the first parent in 22 years to be prosecuted in the north Florida district under the state's truancy laws. Officials of the Putnam County schools are also prosecuting three other parents of truant children in elementary and junior high school. Other districts across the state and the country are taking similar steps in an effort to get parents to take responsibility for their children's behavior.
Such legal actions against parents, while available to most school districts under state compulsory education laws, have rarely been used in the past, school officials and experts on education law say, partly because intermediate steps like counseling usually worked. But the use of such laws, which ebbs and flows as society recalibrates its views of parental responsibility, is now rising, said Ronald D. Stephens, the executive director of the National School Safety Center, a research center at Pepperdine University in California.
As school systems are required to meet more stringent performance standards, administrators are turning to attendance as one of quickest and simplest areas to address because unless the children are in school no learning occurs and standards cannot be met.
School systems have exerted pressure on students, linking school performance to obtaining a driver's license or hunting license, for example. In cities like New York, police have been sweeping truants off the streets and back into school.
But now, the schools are applying pressure to parents, giving rise to prosecutions like Ms. Freeman's and to experiments like those in six states that decrease the monthly welfare benefit paid to families with chronically truant children.
 
Opposition From Some
 "It's part of the larger move toward school accountability and that often means making students and then their parents more accountable as well," said Kathy Christie, a spokeswoman for the Education Commission of the States, an information clearing house.
Still Ms. Christie says that other methods might be more successful in meeting standards for schools. "The problem is that we have studies that suggest you have greater impact when you improve school programs and staffs generally than if you target problem children and their parents."
Punishing parents strikes some educators, like Randall Curren, an education professor at the University of Rochester, as "a dollar short and a day late." Most parents affected by such actions, these experts say, failed to supervise their children when they were young and responsive; now, it may be too late.
Still other districts besides the one here are trying to force parents to take responsibility for school attendance by their children. Every quarter since February 1993, Judge Michael S. Conese of Municipal Court in Hamilton, Ohio, has devoted a day of his court calendar to the cases of parents who repeatedly neglected their children's school attendance. In the last year Judge Conese heard some 160 cases, requiring all those parents to post $100 bonds that are returned when the attendance record improves. In 10 cases, he sentenced parents to jail.
He said that only five or six parents actually served sentences of 5 to 20 days in jail. In all cases attendance was nearly perfect after the sentences were served and, he said, average daily attendance in the city's schools has risen to 92 percent from 88 percent.
"I just don't permit parents to in effect wash their hands of their responsibility," Judge Conese said.
In Abilene, Tex., Judge Charles Griffin recently adopted a similar approach, working with a school attendance officer to fine parents and suspend those fines if the attendance records of their children improved.
Law-enforcement and school officials have also teamed up in Los Angeles where on any given day in the sprawling district 300,000 of the 1.6 million students are truant in an area where truants figure in 90 percent of the daytime burglaries. Since the beginning of the school year, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office has summoned habitual truants at 18 elementary and junior high schools and their parents to weekday sessions emphasizing parenting skills, tutoring and counseling in an attempt to stop truancy early.
"There is something about the power and mystique of the district attorney's office that gets the attention of students and their parents," said Tom Higgins, the head of the District Attorney's juvenile division, who started the effort informally at two schools in 1991.
Of 1,819 students and their parents who have been summoned to the sessions so far this year, only 8 have been prosecuted by the district attorney for failing to improve school attendance.
"Fireman have to be ready to fight fires but a large part of their job is inspections designed to prevent fires," Mr. Higgins said. "As prosecutors we have to prosecute, but may we have to also think more in terms of preventing a kid from winding up before us in the courts."
Here in Palatka, the authorities started taking action against parents because of local concern about high rates of school suspensions, an increasing number of teen-agers hanging out in public during school hours and the growth of crimes committed by youths. The effort also got a push from the get-tough attitude among newly elected school officials like Geri Melosh, Superintendent of Putnam County schools, and a willingness of a recently elected district attorney to take truancy cases to court.
A town of 12,000, Palatka is 60 miles south of Jacksonville in a rural band of the state that is more like the South of the 1950's than the Florida of the 90's. Median household income in the county, which is 80 percent white, is 25 percent below the state average. Only 64.3 percent of area residents have at least completed high school, while the statewide average is 74.4 percent.
 
Little Respect for Schools
 For decades, the largest employer has been a paper mill, where until five years ago local people without a high school diploma could be hired. This long history may help explain what Ms. Melosh and her staff perceive as the low regard many parents here have for education.
"And there seems to be a difference between the attitudes of poor black parents and poor white parents, because black parents are easier to work with on truancy," said Nancy Burnett, the district's court liaison who noted that all four court cases involved white parents.
Since being sentenced, Ms. Freeman has not arranged with the schools for her community service and officials said that her son had missed two consecutive days of school recently. What was contrition two weeks ago has turned to anger for Ms. Freeman, who said in an interview that her son's absences could be traced not only to her personal problems, but also to his learning disabilities. She said her son, Brandon, can barely read, reverses letters, has trouble with math and cannot remember his left from his right, adding that the school has not addressed these problems.
Ms. Burnett said that Ms. Freeman's son has been a chronic truant since first grade and that over the years the schools have tried to work with the family to improve attendance. In the last year alone, she said, attendance officials visited the pink-and-white trailer a half-dozen times to talk with Ms. Freeman, sent several letters and signed two "contracts" under which she promised to improve the situation.
Robert Kuhn, the district's director of pupil services, said it was too early to tell whether prosecuting parents was improving school attendance, but he said he thought it was doing some good.
"We have some households where the children are telling the parents what they are going to do," Mr. Kuhn said. "This will help the parents to take back control and hopefully give them some leverage."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Trying to force parents to take responsibility for making sure that their children attend school, officials in Palatka, Fla., prosecuted Ellen Freeman for the repeated absences of her 10-year-old son, Brandon. But she says the problem has been at least as much the responsibility of the schools. (Peter Willott for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Map of Florida showing location of Palatka. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUTNAM COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALATKA (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TRUANCY SCHOOL TRUANCY (92%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); FAMILY (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); SENTENCING (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); EXECUTIVES (61%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; FREEMAN, ELLEN ELLEN FREEMAN (87%); MICHAEL S CONESE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



414 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Business Shuns Areas That Look Too White

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, April 15

 BODY:
The offer was sweeter than a bushel of Iowa roasting ears: $25 million in incentives to a Maryland biotechnology company if it would flee the nerve-rattling East Coast and settle here in America's heartland -- fresh air, quiet streets, smiling faces.
But after a closer look at Iowa, the company noticed that almost all of those faces, smiling or not, were white. The offer was ultimately rejected. 
 "We were really wooing them," said Michael Reagan, the president of the Greater Des Moines Chamber of Commerce. "And somebody in their group said: 'I think we may be uncomfortable here. We're used to all kinds of different people.' Their concerns were how homogenous we were."
The failed deal, which cost the state 250 new jobs and potentially millions of dollars to its economy, illustrates the powerful economic dimensions of the nation's racially diversifying work force, and the perils of homogeneity for cities and states competing to attract business.
"It seems a strange flip-flop -- places being considered too white," said David Messick, a professor of business at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. "But if you think about it, it's logical. The country is changing. What was once seen as a great advantage, racial or cultural homogeneity is turning into a disadvantage."
 
Vision of the Nation
 Like "American Gothic," the tidy Main Streets and tall silos of Iowa once stood as a portrait of the nation's fundamental identity. But as the face of the nation changes, a place like Iowa, which remains 96.6 percent white, scarcely represents any kind of demographic Middle America today.
Recruiters say the biggest concern among companies considering a move to Iowa, or other overwhelmingly white regions in the nation's interior, once centered on fears of minus-50-degree winds in January. But as companies strive to broaden their work forces, an increasing number of corporate leaders voice concern about places that do not reflect the larger picture of America.
"It's becoming obvious that we have to be concerned about diversity, not just for social and moral reasons, but for economic reasons," Mr. Reagan said. "We have a lot going for us: a growing economy, a highly educated work force. But the image of homogeneity hurts us."
 
What Iowa Didn't Do
 Far too often in the past, Mr. Reagan said visiting business leaders had been met in Iowa by a team of white men, a mistake that he vowed would not be repeated. In efforts to promote diversity, several big companies in Iowa have formed "pluralism councils" that draw on the perspectives of minority workers, and the Des Moines Chamber of Commerce is planning a "diversity institute" that will focus on ways to hire and retain more minority workers.
In its unsuccessful bid to land the Maryland company, Mr. Reagan said Iowa officials might have erred by not emphasizing more clearly the small but successful presence of minority executives in Des Moines.
Officials of the company, American Type Culture Collection of Rockville, Md., which supplies tissue to researchers, declined to comment on the issue of racial diversity in its decision.
"This is emerging as a critical issue," said Max Phillips, an executive with U S West and co-chairman of the diversity committee for the Chamber of Commerce. "Companies today have offices all over the country, all over the world. And it's a good chance that some of their best people will be other than white. How is that company going to feel about sending somebody to work in Iowa if they're going to lose them in a year or two?
"People in Iowa are well-meaning," he continued. "They'll say, 'Gee, we're a friendly group of people here.' But if I'm African-American, and I can't find a church to go to, friendly isn't good enough. If I can't build a social life, if I can't find anybody of my background, then friendly just doesn't cut it."
Tammy Wheeler, a 30-year-old black woman who grew up in a housing project on the South Side of Chicago and took a job in that city with Amoco after college, was due for a promotion last year, which she knew would probably mean a move. "Please don't make my life miserable; please don't send me to Des Moines," she told her boss.
 
Difficult Decision
 But her fears came true. Her next move was to Des Moines. Although it would mean a better position and more money, she agonized over whether to take the job. "I cried really hard for a day," she said.
After a talk with her mother, she decided to make the move in the interest of her career. She supervises 15 workers, all of them white. She lives in a town house in West Des Moines and is the only black resident in the 88-unit complex.
"It's been a tremendous culture shock," Ms. Wheeler said. "I went to a comedy club with a white woman one night. I was the only black person in the whole place."
Her companion was a native of Iowa who did not understand why Ms. Wheeler should feel uncomfortable.
"I said, 'Picture this thing reversed: You're in a place and you're the only white person. How would you feel?' She said, 'Yeah, I guess I never thought about it that way.' "
In a year in Des Moines, Ms. Wheeler has not had a single date. She hopes to marry one day and raise a family, but she said her "pickings in Iowa are pretty slim."
Back in Chicago, she said, she loved to go to jazz clubs and "go stepping" in the dance halls.
"There's a lot of lonely nights that come my way now," said Ms. Wheeler, who said she did not plan to stay in Iowa for more than another year or two. "There's a lot of nights where I'm in my town house, dancing by myself in front of the mirror. Don't want to lose my step, you know."
 
No Good Place to Shop
 Ms. Wheeler said she had found only two hair parlors that catered to blacks. And she has been unable to find a brand of hosiery popular among young black women.
Jonathan Narcisse, an Iowa native who is the publisher of The Communicator, a black newspaper in Des Moines, said: "Living in Iowa can be challenging for an African-American, but there are opportunities. You have to be able to deal with white people. It's not like Washington, D.C., or Chicago. There is a lot of racism, like there is everywhere. But it's not Selma of the North. By and large, I think it's a fairly liberal place. For blacks, it's kind of like the frontier here. You either thrive -- and there are a lot of us who are thriving -- or you get ground down."
In the last few years, race relations in Iowa have been shaken by several incidents: crosses were burned on lawns in Dubuque; racist literature was passed out in a Des Moines suburb; a synagogue here was defaced.
In response, Lieut. Gov. Joy Corning sponsored a diversity commission intended to promote tolerance through meetings and workshops. A conference on racial tolerance will be held in Des Moines in October, with the poet Maya Angelou as the featured speaker. And the committee plans to give awards to people and communities in Iowa who have found ways to promote understanding.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tammy Wheeler, 30, a manager for Amoco in Des Moines, feels lonely in a mostly white city. Officials in Des Moines say they have had trouble attracting new companies because employers fear that their workers would be uncomfortable with Iowa's lack of diversity. Few faces at a downtown mall are not white. (Photographs by Jeffrey Davis for The New York Times)
; Graph: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Basically White" shows a racial comparison of Iowa and the U.S. (Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMOCO CORP AMOCO CORP (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMOCO CORP US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES (IOWA); UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US) LABOR FORCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); RELOCATIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; WHEELER, TAMMY MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



415 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 Kidder, Peabody said it had dismissed its chief government bond trader after it uncovered fraudulent trading apparently aimed at inflating the firm's profits and the trader's annual bonus. As a result, Kidder said, $350 million in profits it had recorded during the last year never actually existed. [Page A1.]
Two directors of Macy are calling for the board to hire new legal and financial advisers, people close to the board said. The two directors have circulated letters calling into question the relationship between Macy's law firm and Fidelity Investments. [D1.] 
 Gerald J. Ford, known for turning around failed Texas savings and loan assets, is coming to San Francisco to build First Nationwide Bank. Mr. Ford and Ronald O. Perelman won the bidding last week to buy First Nationwide Bank, the nation's fifth-largest savings and loan, from Ford Motor for $1.1 billion. [D1.]
 
The Economy
 The boom in American auto sales has led to shortages and waiting lists for some buyers even as auto makers work overtime to increase production. In some cases, the shortages are causing prices to rise above the sticker price. [A1.]
Big insurance companies have endorsed a proposal to overhaul a 49-year-old Federal law shielding the insurance industry from antitrust rules. Smaller insurance companies fear that the changes could put them at a competitive disadvantage to large companies and contend that the changes might even hurt consumers. [D1.]
To understand how the bond market could turn so quickly from a bull to a bear, consider the shifts in strategy by Henry Kaufman, one of Wall Street's best-known economists. Bullish on bonds at the time of the 1992 Presidential election and through the first half of 1993, Mr. Kaufman began to turn increasingly bearish and cut back on his holdings of longer-term bonds. [D1.]
A system that enables companies to make payments and send the payment data in a single electronic message will be introduced. Thirteen banks will participate in the new system, E.D.I. Banx, which comes as more companies are turning to electronic payment systems to cut the cost of paperwork. [D6.]
Check-cashing outlets are drawing more customers as banks close branches in low-income neighborhoods. [B1.]
 
International
 The international debt crisis is over, bankers say, and last week's refinancing agreement with Brazil brought the end. What remains is essentially just mopping up. News Analysis. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
 ABC had the No. 1 series on television, the No. 1 new comedy and the No. 1 new drama, and the network still came in second for the 1993-94 season. But the winner in the ratings contest, CBS, was greatly helped by two weeks of Winter Olympics coverage. [D7.]
High-definition television makes a broadcast debut tomorrow night, when a mini-series shot in the format will be shown. It cannot be seen in the high-definition format, however, because there is no system for transmitting or viewing the signals in this country. [D7.]
Viewer participation is nothing new in Brazil, a nation of 35 million television households. [D7.]
How correct is political correctness? Newspaper editors wrestled with the issue at a convention. William Glaberson: Press. [D7.]
Jerry Della Femina is merging his fledgling agency with Ketchum Advertising New York. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]

Today's Columns
 A scientist will receive a patent for a system that he says can map the shape of human emotions and give computers more realistic speaking voices. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
While Boeing has high hopes for its new airplane, the 777, investors have not yet raised their expectations for its stock. But analysts say the company is poised to do well. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (72%); F (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (72%); FMR CORP (57%); FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (69%); OVERTIME (67%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (63%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (60%); OLYMPICS (50%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: GERALD J FORD (79%); RONALD PERELMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



416 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Despite Growing Support, New Laws On Smoking Are Unlikely This Year

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM with PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
The momentum is building, no doubt about it. But the time does not seem to be ripe this year for new Federal laws or regulations that would sharply curtail the use of tobacco.
Politicians are moving slowly for many reasons, but the main one may be that no one is exactly sure what to do to stop people from smoking. 
 Outlawing cigarettes seems to be out of the question. It raises the prospect of the corruption and gangsterism that prevailed during Prohibition.
"I think we have enough experience with alcohol," said Representative Mike Synar, the Oklahoma Democrat who is a leader in the anti-smoking drive in the House.
"Alcohol didn't work, because of the black market," Mr. Synar said. "Secondly, it's a little dishonest to say in one breath that nicotine is an addictive drug, that 50 million smokers are addicted, and then not have some sense of compassion and understanding that to ban the product would be cruel punishment."
Another possibility would be to eliminate or restrict nicotine in cigarettes, but that might also be easier to address in the abstract than in the particular.
Dr. David A. Kessler, Commissioner of Food and Drugs, told Congress last week that he was not sure what the public health consequences of such a policy would be. Reducing the amount of nicotine in cigarettes, he said, might simply push smokers to smoke more cigarettes, thus causing themselves more damage.
"How should nicotine be regulated?" he asked the lawmakers, the tone of his voice emphasizing the difficulty of the question. "What is the right way?"
While broad strokes against smoking seem unlikely this year, the political momentum is clearly running against the practice. Last month alone, the Labor Department took the first steps toward outlawing smoking in all workplaces in the country, and the Defense Department banned smoking in workplaces on military bases and ships around the world.
Meantime, Congress approved and President Clinton signed into law a measure that prohibits smoking in schools and in Head Start and community health centers, and the House approved a measure requiring that all schools that receive Federal drug-prevention money teach the dangers of tobacco.
Last week, the chief executives of the top seven American tobacco companies were called before a House subcommittee on health and grilled on live television about smoking.
An even more forceful blow came in February when Dr. Kessler announced that he was re-examining the authority of the Food and Drug Administration to regulate cigarettes. Because cigarettes are not considered a food or a drug, the agency has till now taken the position that it had no such authority.
 
Seeks Defining Legislation
 But Dr. Kessler said that if it could be shown that the companies manipulated the amount of nicotine in cigarettes to satisfy smokers' addiction, then the agency would have no choice but to regulate cigarettes as a drug.
As a legal matter, that would probably mean banning tobacco products. And since neither Dr. Kessler nor lawmakers believe that would be wise, the Commissioner asked Congress for legislation that would define how he should proceed.
Top F.D.A. officials said last week they would eventually act unilaterally if Congress did not deal decisively with smoking, but they said no such steps were contemplated this year.
Representatives Synar and Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, have introduced legislation that would explicitly give the Food and Drug Administration jurisdiction over tobacco but label it as neither a food nor a drug. The bill would prohibit the agency from banning tobacco but would permit the regulation of manufacturing, advertising, labeling, distribution and sale of tobacco products.
The bill is not likely to be become law this year, in part because the Congressional committees with jurisdiction are tied up with other matters like Mr. Clinton's proposed overhaul of the health care system. But the Synar-Durbin bill may be the direction Congress will eventually follow, legislators said.
Other, more modest measures stand a somewhat better chance of passage. A higher Federal tax on tobacco products has such broad support in Congress to raise money for more widespread health-care coverage that the only remaining question is how high the new tax will be.
Mr. Clinton proposed increasing the tax, now 24 cents on a pack of cigarettes, by 75 cents. A House subcommittee voted last month to raise it by $1.25. And some in Congress are considering a tax of $2 a pack or more. The prevailing view is that a higher tax might curtail smoking in the long run, but for the short term, it is seen mainly as a source of revenue.
Another bill under consideration would ban smoking in virtually all buildings except private homes. Its sponsor, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, canceled subcommittee votes twice last month when he realized that the panel would not approve the measure. But his office said Mr. Waxman planned to bring it up again this week and believed that he had the votes.
The subcommittee seems to be the biggest obstacle to this bill in the House, and if Mr. Waxman can win there, he will probably succeed in winning House passage. But approval by the Senate is questionable. A staff assistant to the Democratic leadership there said bills restricting smoking were not the highest priority before committees and subcommittees and could probably be blocked this year by a few senators from tobacco states.
The lawmakers from tobacco states lack the political strength they once had. But like the opponents of gun control and advocates of agriculture subsidies, the political forces battling limits on smoking have such a direct stake in the matter that they care more and fight harder than do those on the anti-smoking side.
 
A Gathering Force
 Representative Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has worked for years for tougher legislation against smoking, said: "What's happened in Congress is that it's very easy to block something and very hard to thread the needle. You have a group, obviously from tobacco states and districts, where there's an extremely passionate feeling."
But like most of his colleagues, Mr. Wyden senses that the forces opposing legislation against tobacco are on the decline and that it is only a matter of time before strong laws against smoking are enacted. "I personally think what they're faced with is a tidal wave," he said, "and when you talk to tobacco-state legislators, they know that."
An aide to one of the Senate's strongest opponents of tobacco restrictions agreed with that assessment. The aide said, "If you get even one or two members who can work to get something to a vote, generally speaking, it's a pretty easy vote for most members."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY SMOKING (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); POLITICS (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); PRODUCT RECALLS (59%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; HILTS, PHILIP J BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



417 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE RUSSIANS;
Moscow Embarrassed When Serbs Make, and Break, Promise of Pullback

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 17

 BODY:
The Russians were embarrassed today when their power to put pressure on the Serbs in Bosnia proved to be as feeble as everyone else's, underlining the weakness of their claim of influence over their Slavic brothers.
Russia, which was infuriated last week when NATO bombed the Bosnian Serbs in the eastern Bosnian enclave of Gorazde without informing Moscow, stepped in on Saturday to make peace.
 
'Urgent Recommendations'
 But no sooner had Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev, returned to Moscow today bearing news of a cease-fire and a pullback agreement in Gorazde than Bosnian Serb tanks started moving into the town. 
 Upon his return from a 24-hour trip to Belgrade, Mr. Kozyrev told Russian reporters that the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, agreed with the Russians' "urgent recommendations" to halt the fighting around Gorazde, lift the blockade, pull back troops and deploy United Nations forces to enforce a cease-fire.
Progressive steps toward a general cease-fire in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Kozyrev told the Itar-Tass news agency, "would give Russia the chance to raise with more perseverance the question of the removal of sanctions" against the Serbs.
The lifting of United Nations-endorsed economic and military sanctions is a major Serbian demand, and Mr. Kozyrev had discussed the idea of gradually lifting them with Secretary of State Warren Christopher. The Americans were said to be reluctant to reward the Serbs prematurely but to understand the need for incentives.
But the Russians have a good idea of the value of the promises of the Bosnian Serbs. That understanding was confirmed on Saturday when Gen. Ratko Mladic, the Bosnian Serb commander, told the Russian special envoy, Vitaly I. Churkin, that troops would not storm or shell Gorazde. The promise was made even as the Bosnian Serbs were preparing another assault.
Still, the Russians seem to be the only intermediaries the Serbs trust at all, especially after NATO intervened.
Despite the setbacks and embarrassments, Mr. Churkin and Mr. Kozyrev are continuing to seek a diplomatic settlement for two reasons. First, the Russians do not want to see or take part in a ground war in former Yugoslavia any more than the West Europeans or the Americans do.
 
Opposition Will Benefit
 Second, the use of NATO power against the Slavic Serbs, even under United Nations auspices, will be seized upon by the ultranationalist, and even centrist, opposition to Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin, whose political power is perceived to be weakening.
If the end of Communist totalitarianism has let loose virulent nationalisms in the former Yugoslavia, it has also created an equally virulent form of Russian nationalism here, where a growing anti-Westernism, built on disappointment with the slow transition to a market economy, feeds new assertions of Russia's singularity and its status as a great power.
So as Mr. Kozyrev tried to persuade the Serbs to come to a diplomatic settlement that would consolidate most of their gains in any case, he also criticized Bosnian Muslims for their "provocations" to the Serbs and called NATO's use of air power "excessive," risking a wider war.
Mr. Kozyrev also repeated today that he would not be going to Brussels on Thursday to sign a framework agreement for a new NATO partnership that could eventually lead to full membership. Russia wanted "a more serious and substantive agreement" with NATO, "adequate to the relations that must exist between NATO and a great country like Russia," he said. Such an agreement would "rule out unilateral actions, particularly military ones" like the NATO bombing of the Serbs, "in areas where we clearly have to cooperate."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA; RUSSIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



418 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: White House Goes Courting In California

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 17

 BODY:
It is well established that the White House is determined to stroke California voters as often and as vigorously as possible to win their allegiance in the 1996 Presidential election.
But in the latest effort to plant the Bill Clinton flag in the richest electoral soil of the nation, Vice President Al Gore stands out. 
 After Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, reopened the earthquake-damaged Santa Monica Freeway last week without first alerting the White House, Mr. Gore hurriedly flew here to credit President Clinton with making Federal money available to repair the vital expressway.
Returning to Washington with barely a break, Mr. Gore flew to Marrakech, Morocco, to address a committee of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs. And where did he go then? Back to Los Angeles, to lead a rally of Democratic volunteers on Friday night and to be the featured speaker at the Democratic Party's state convention on Saturday. "If I make any more visits out here," Mr. Gore told the delegates, "I'm going to become a citizen of the state."
 
Taking the State Seriously
 In fact, many leading Democrats and White House officials seem to spend more time in California than in Washington -- starting from the top. No other Democratic President in memory has taken California as seriously as Mr. Clinton is. The state is widely viewed as the cornerstone of his re-election hopes, and the race for governor this year, which will pit Mr. Wilson against a Democrat to be chosen in June, will be considered a harbinger for 1996.
Nowhere has this unrelenting interest in California been more on display than at the state Democratic Party convention, which was stocked with more White House officials than usual.
The visitors all carried messages. Mr. Gore's was that the Administration deserved credit for helping California's economy to rebound. David C. Wilhelm, the national party chairman, had more than a message: $1 million for the state Democratic Party to help its candidates this year.
Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d of Massachusetts, speaking on behalf of the Kennedy family, recalled how his father, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, won his biggest victory here in the 1968 Presidential primary, just before he was assassinated. But Mr. Kennedy assured the audience that the state and his family were "the closest of friends."
Even James Carville, the consultant who made a name for himself as an architect of Mr. Clinton's 1992 victory, led a seminar, "Building a Political Powerhouse in California." While Mr. Carville's advice was short on specifics and long on generalities, like "knock on every door," the dozens of autograph hounds who surrounded him did not seem to mind.
But the politician who wins the prize for wooing California with the most hyperbole this weekend is Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader.
Asserting that the stakes were high in the race for governor of California this year, Mr. Gephardt told the delegates, "The election of 1994 is even more important, if you can believe it, than the election of 1992."
By the end of the convention, the California Democrats seemed ready to believe anything from the Washingtonians. One of the few delegates who was not sated by the attention was Michael Sedberry of Redlands. "They're doing a good job," he said. "But they could have sent Hillary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (70%); WHITE HOUSE (90%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (90%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



419 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Check Cashers Filling a Void

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
Early every morning an armored car pulls up to a storefront in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. And for the next nine and a half hours, faces of all kinds pass in front of the four panes of bulletproof glass at Roebling Check Cashing -- black, Hispanic, Hasidic, male, but mostly female, with children placed on countertops.
"The whole neighborhood," William Siegel, the owner, said proudly. 
 With limited access to banks, neighborhoods like Williamsburg, with their populations of public assistance recipients and the working class, have made places like Mr. Siegel's storefront their financial centers. More and more banks are closing their branches in low-income neighborhoods -- 88.5 percent have shut their doors in the poorest sections of Brooklyn since 1978, and the Bronx as a whole has lost nearly 20 percent, according to a new report.
As a result, hundreds of customers stream daily through the doors of check-cashing outlets. It is in such establishments, with often limited security and a carnival of video games and vending machines, that paychecks become cash, bills can be paid, welfare benefits are collected, lottery tickets purchased, subway tokens bought.
 
Illusion of Cheaper Rates
 Many customers are attracted by the ease of conducting business and the illusion of cheaper rates for financial transactions.
"I took my money out of a bank," said Lina Gonzalez, a Williamsburg resident doing business at Roebling Check Cashing one morning earlier last week. "I had put my money in, but then they started taking it all. There were deductions and charges for everything. Here, though, there are no lines, no nothing. Check cashers are the best."
The endorsement is hardly universal, however, and many people who frequent check-cashing outlets do so because they feel that there is no choice, that they have been abandoned or excluded by banks that, because of mergers and concerns about profits, have closed branch after branch. These residents often lack the funds required to open bank accounts, with their sundry minimum balances and penalties.
The new report, released by Public Advocate Mark Green, concludes that a "two-tier financial services system" has developed in the city because of the disproportionate rate at which banks have closed in depressed neighborhoods with large minority populations.
The report says that 14.3 percent of Brooklyn's branches have closed in the last 15 years. In Bedford-Stuyvesant there are only three bank branches to service a population of 129,000, and in one 300-square-block area of East New York there is only a single bank branch.
According to the report, typical customers at check-cashing outlets, which must be licensed and are regulated by the State Banking Department, pay 4 to 10 times as much as they would at a bank over the course of a year. Customers at check cashers, after presenting identification, pay a state-regulated fee of 1.1 percent of the value of the checks they cash (limited to government and payroll checks), as well as unregulated charges for services like money orders and cash transfers.
The report, which says that inadequate security makes customers targets for crime, also asserts that banks have aggressively helped underwrite the check cashers that have replaced their branches, providing them with the $100,000 line of credit necessary to open an establishment.
 
'Economic Oxygen'
 "It's one more example of what has become a segregated economy," Mr. Green said. "Access to financial services may not rank with food and shelter as needs for people, but it's damn close. It's economic oxygen for families and neighborhoods."
As bank branches have dwindled, the number of check-cashing establishments has risen, to 510. In fact, there has been a nearly 45 percent increase in the number of check-cashing outlets in the city over the last decade, with a 19 percent increase since 1990 alone. The vast majority of these establishments are in the city's economically troubled neighborhoods. The total fees charged have also risen, from $31.8 million in 1981 to $86.6 million in 1992.
"Banks have abandoned poor neighborhoods, and found it very easy to go," said Dr. Donald J. Reeb, an economics professor at the State University of New York at Albany, who conducted a study of the check-cashing industry for the State Banking Department in 1991. "And check cashers don't replace a bank and its services very nicely. They charge."
 
Basic Accounts
 Officials with major banks in the city reject as unfair the report's conclusion that they have fled poor neighborhoods and that their branches have failed to offer services within the economic reach of its residents. For example, Anne Diedrick, a vice president with Chemical Bank, said 61 of the bank's 219 branches in the city are in low-income or moderate-income census tracts. She added that Chemical has set up a basic account that meets requirements of 1994 legislation mandating that low-cost "lifeline" accounts be offered by every bank in the state.
Representatives of the check-cashing industry also dispute the report's assertion that significant economic damage has been done to residents of poor neighborhoods who frequent their services. They note their lower rates for money orders, and the fact that public assistance funds are distributed without charge. And they say that New York's 1.1 percent check-cashing fee is the lowest of any state in the country.
"Banks aren't interested in the people we pick up because the banks have determined that poor neighborhoods don't offer them what they term 'good business,' " said Henry Shyne, executive director of the New York State Check Cashers Association. "We have become the 7-Eleven of financial services. What's wrong with that?"
The State Banking Department, for one, has no official objections.
"The people using check cashers need to be able to convert paper to greenbacks," said William Schilling, deputy superintendent of banks. "Check cashers exist, and they serve a purpose in the real world."
One of the people who finds herself in the real world of check-cashing stores is Madeline Marquez, the director of economic development for Banana Kelly, a nonprofit community development organization in the South Bronx. Seven bank branches have closed in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx since 1978.
"Yes, I go to check cashers," Ms. Marquez said. "What's the alternative?"
Rick Price, whose family runs six check-cashing stores in the metropolitan area, conceded it is unfortunate that banks have left poor neighborhoods, but he recognized that his business has flourished as a result.
"I'm in a dilemma," Mr. Price said. "But we're no different than people out there selling sneakers to kids in poor neighborhoods for outrageous prices. Except that our prices aren't outrageous. Our prices are an economic hardship only if they are compared against 'free.' "
 
'They Want Speed'
 Certainly the customers who strode one after the other into Roebling Check Cashing earlier this week were not complaining out loud. They were either resigned to their fate, unaware of extra charges or quite happy with the state of affairs and their choice of options. Indeed, there are five bank branches within walking distance of the outlet.
"They want their money one, two, three. They want speed," Mr. Siegel said, adding that he expected to process 300 to 400 welfare payments that day. "We've done away with the image of us being money launderers, and people here, with our money locked in what really is a steel cage, feel safer than in banks where someone can come in and blow people away to get at the money."
But one result of the expansion of check-cashing operations in poor neighborhoods has been crime. Banks usually have guards and video monitoring systems. But check-cashing outlets can rarely afford such security. There is cash, there are a great number of older women cashing Social Security checks, and there are dangerous streets outside. Victims are often surreptitiously marked with chalk or tape inside the outlets and held up outside.
"The majority of what we call our open-air robberies are connected to check-cashing places," said Haywood Batts, head of the anticrime task force for the Central Brooklyn Coordinating Council.
 
Lottery Sales
 Those who have studied check-cashing outlets also say they play a role in discouraging saving by the poor. "Selling lottery tickets at the same counter where government benefits are distributed may help the lottery, but it is dubious public policy," Mr. Green said.
Advocates for the poor and working class in New York and across the country have a range of responses to what they perceive as the problems posed by check cashers.
Among remedies under consideration are national legislation requiring banks to cash government checks for a lower fee; allowing banks to arrange for people to make bank-account deposits at check-cashing stores, and permitting community financial institutions, like neighborhood credit unions, to cash checks.
Baybank, one of the largest commercial banks in New England, decided strategically to take on inner-city check cashers in Boston in the early 1990's. Baybank offers a low-cost checking account designed for welfare recipients and has opened six branches and more than 30 automatic teller machines in poor neighborhoods in Boston.
"And we've made quite a reasonable profit," said Grady B. Hedgespeth, regional president for Baybank.
"The situation that exists with banks and check cashers is as if a utility had been allowed to turn off gas or electric service," Dr. Reeb said. "The banks, of course, say they are not a utility. And the people, of course, have a right to say, 'Yes, but banks could be if they wanted to.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrons waiting on line at Roebling Check Cashing in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. With more and more banks closing branches in low-income neighborhoods, check-cashing outlets have become main financial centers. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B2)
 
Graph: "BALANCE SHEET: Check Cashing and its cost" shows a comparison of a check-cashing outlet, bank, savings and loan and a home savings company. (Source: Public Advocate)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); RELIGION (57%); LOTTERIES (52%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); SEXTON, JOE MARK GREEN (56%); WILLIAM SIEGEL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



420 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Jurors Find L.I. Murder Case Easy to Resist

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., April 17

 BODY:
Some prospective jurors said they did not want to serve on the jury in the Joel Rifkin case because they already thought he was guilty in the serial killings of several women.
Others said they could not spare the five to six weeks the murder trial was expected to take. And some said they did not want to serve because they were afraid of Mr. Rifkin. 
 More than 650 people answered jury summonses in Nassau County Court last week and found themselves face-to-face with Mr. Rifkin in court. Most said they wanted nothing to do with the case and quickly left after being excused by the judge. Their reluctance to serve pointed up the problems in selecting an impartial jury to hear one of the most publicized murder cases in Long Island history.
"Why don't they just take him out and shoot him and save the court's money?" one young man asked in a muffled voice as he walked out of the courtroom.
As expected, the task of assembling 16 Nassau County residents -- 12 jurors and 4 alternates -- willing to keep an open mind about the much-publicized case against Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed gardener, has been daunting. The police say Mr. Rifkin has confessed to killing 17 women, although he is being tried in Nassau in only one death, that of Tiffany Bresciani, a 22-year-old Manhattan woman. Other trials are expected in other jurisdictions.
Ms. Bresciani's body was found in Mr. Rifkin's Mazda pickup truck after he was stopped last June 28 by state troopers because he had no rear license plate. The police said Mr. Rifkin told them that he had picked her up in Manhattan and later strangled her, and had been looking for a place to dump her body when he was stopped.
Within hours of his arrest, the police said, he had confessed to killing 16 other women.
On Friday, the court ran out of jury candidates after questioning groups of 50 at a time. A new pool of 600 potential jurors is to be brought in Monday. The judge in the case, Ira H. Wexner, told those called to his courtroom that the trial could last six weeks. And while they might recall news accounts about the Rifkin case, he said, they could still serve as jurors if they kept an open mind.
"But if you have any reservations about the case and feel you could not be fair and impartial in reaching a conclusion, then feel free to leave now," Judge Wexner said.
In almost every instance, all but four or five people in each group left. Each remaining person was then questioned by Judge Wexner; the defense lawyer, John Lawrence, and the prosecutor, Frank Klein.
"What do you remember reading about the case?" Mr. Klein asked one woman, who, like the others, was given a number and not referred to by name.
"Just that he killed a lot of people," she said, shifting nervously in her seat in the jury box less than 12 feet from Mr. Rifkin, who sat slumped over the table, staring out the window.
"Did the reports shock you?" Mr. Klein asked.
"No," she said. "I just remember thinking that he had to be a very troubled man."
"By 'troubled,' do you mean that should his lawyer present an insanity defense, you could accept what he had done?" Mr. Klein asked.
"No," she said, "they would have to prove it."
Then it was Mr. Lawrence's turn to ask questions.
"Do you have any preconceived notions about Mr. Rifkin?" he asked. "Would you be willing to listening to both sides?"
"I believe I could," she said.
After the woman was led from the courtroom, both Mr. Klein and Mr. Lawrence said they would have no problem with her serving on the jury.
By the end of last week, the woman was on a list of 65 people, about 20 short of the number the lawyers need to begin final jury selection. Each side will be allowed to reject 20 finalists.
This final pool has already lost several members, mostly those who say they are afraid of Mr. Rifkin.
"I live by myself and I take the train late at night," one young woman told the judge. "I have a feeling this would have an effect on the rest of my life."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; JURY SYSTEM; TRIALS; SERIAL MURDERS JURY TRIALS (93%); MURDER (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); JUDGES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SHOOTINGS (72%); COUNTIES (71%); ARRESTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, JOEL JOEL RIFKIN (97%); FRANK KLEIN (76%); IRA H WEXNER (63%); JOHN C LAWRENCE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



421 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: A New Ford in California's Future

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 17

 BODY:
Californians beset by fires, earthquakes, recessions and riots received one glowing omen last week: Gerald J. Ford, known for his sensitivity to sweet deals and impending turnarounds, is moving to their state.
He and Ronald O. Perelman of New York won the bidding last week to buy First Nationwide Bank, the nation's fifth-largest savings and loan, from the Ford Motor Company for $1.1 billion. 
 Mr. Ford plans to move from Dallas, where he pulled off the most profitable savings and loan purchase in the whole Federal distress sale, to San Francisco, where First Nationwide is based.
Mr. Perelman and Mr. Ford formed First Gibraltar Bank from several failed Texas savings and loans they bought from regulators in 1988. With $5.1 billion in Federal aid and about $900 million in tax breaks, they at least tripled an initial investment of about $300 million.
 
Looking for Greater Rewards
 Now that the Texas economy has revived and banking here has settled down, Mr. Ford has been looking for places that offer higher rewards, even with higher risks.
"I've got to leave town for work," he said with a chuckle in a telephone interview. "We don't have any vision, intellect or genius that's proprietary. There are many people who can do as well as we do, especially when the markets are good. We tend to do better when the markets aren't so good."
That's the sort of overstated understatement that helps Mr. Ford command attention, whether at a south Texas hunting lodge or a Manhattan investment firm.
"When Gerry Ford is in the room, you tend to know it," said James T. Conroy, senior vice president of Mac-Andrews & Forbes Holdings, Mr. Perelman's investment firm.
If some analysts say that Mr. Ford could profit by breaking up First Nationwide, he will hear none of it. "I think California over the next three to five years will be a better place to be,' he said. "We plan to increase our concentration."
He is looking to build First Nationwide's deposits there by buying other savings and loans.
Mr. Ford, who is unrelated to any former Presidents or automotive families, has often gone for turnarounds instead of plodding corporate maintenance. Born in Pampa, a county seat in the Texas Panhandle, he made the National Bank of Post, Tex., pop. 3,822, his first acquisition, in 1976.
"Rather than going through a commercial banking training program, at the first bank I ever worked in I was the chairman," he said. "And it was my own money, so we loaned it out like it was my own money."
Theodore H. Strauss, who as chairman of United National Bank was one of Mr. Ford's early backers, said he soon derived as much benefit from Mr. Ford as Mr. Ford derived from the bank.
"He didn't have 10 cents, and if he did, it was borrowed," Mr. Strauss said. "But he was already helping me find prospective customers."
Mr. Strauss is now a senior managing director in the Dallas office of the Bear, Stearns investment firm, which introduced Mr. Perelman and Mr. Ford.
Adding other banks, first in small towns and then in larger Southwestern markets, Mr. Ford built his First United Bank Group, based in Albuquerque, N.M., into a company with $4 billion in assets.
 
One's Idea, the Other's Money
 The First Gibraltar purchase, the largest Government sale in Texas, involved Mr. Ford's idea and Mr. Perelman's money. Mr. Perelman, who owns or controls properties including Revlon and the Marvel comic book company, has built one of the nation's largest fortunes.
The terms of their First Gibraltar purchase -- including tax breaks, loss protection and the ability to shift bad loans back to the Government -- brought Congressional protests and another round of negotiations that somewhat reduced their profits. When regulators questioned First Gibraltar's payments for a Texas hunting lodge, a New York apartment and a corporate jet, Mr. Ford agreed to finance them separately from the savings and loan's operations.
Most Texas banks own lodges where they entertain important customers, Mr. Ford noted. "A North Carolina-based institution has one right near ours," he said, an unmistakable reference to Nationsbank, which bought the largest bank in Texas.
Mr. Ford took his profits last year, selling First United to the Norwest Corporation of Minneapolis for $495 million and most of First Gibraltar to BankAmerica of San Francisco for about $110 million.
With a resulting fortune that some acquaintances estimate at $100 million, Mr. Ford by the middle of last year had become a passion in search of an object. No matter that he had suffered a mild heart attack several months earlier; he says he is now back playing tennis and working as intensely as ever. He is 49 years old, divorced and has four children 15 to 21 years old.
Industry analysts generally said that in buying First Nationwide, Mr. Perelman and Mr. Ford had found the right object at the right time and price. Ford Motor agreed to keep $1.2 billion of First Nationwide's worst loans and take back $500 million if they soured. First Nationwide has total assets of $15.5 billion, primarily real estate loans concentrated in California. Mr. Ford will own at most 20 percent of First Nationwide and Mr. Perelman the rest.
Analysts do not expect the First Nationwide deal to pay off nearly as well as First Gibraltar, however.
"Although Ford was very generous, no private corporation has exceeded the largesse of the Federal Government," said E. Gareth Plank, a savings and loan analyst at Mabon Securities.
Mr. Plank said that Mr. Ford and Mr. Perelman were still likely to reap annual returns of 15 to 20 percent, and then a big payout in several years from a sale, probably to out-of-state investors.
 
A 'Very Enviable Position'
 "They will be in a very enviable position as some look to the recovered California economy and their market position there," Mr. Plank said.
The state, aided by Federal relief and a construction boom after the Jan. 17 Los Angeles earthquake, resumed adding jobs early this year after a four-year recession. But Mr. Ford still faces several risks.
Even those savings and loans that avoided rash real estate lending face many competitors, including mortgage banks and brokerage firms. Also, California's recovery could stall, or First Nationwide's loan portfolio could turn out weaker than Mr. Ford believes.
Mr. Ford expects the Office of Thrift Supervision to approve the purchase within 120 days. He dismisses the possibility that regulators will reopen the matter of his profits from First Gibraltar.
"A nonissue,' he said. "It wasn't something we held for four years and then someone wrote us a big check. We took risks and we were rewarded."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald J. Ford, who with Ronald O. Perelman won the bidding last week to buy First Nationwide Bank from the Ford Motor Company. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK; FORD MOTOR CO; FIRST GIBRALTER BANK FORD MOTOR CO (94%); FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK (58%); FIRST GIBRALTAR BANK FSB (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK; FORD MOTOR CO; FIRST GIBRALTER BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); COUNTIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; PERELMAN, RONALD O; FORD, GERALD J GERALD J FORD (94%); RONALD PERELMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



422 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: AUTO RACING;
Penske's Engine Has Opponents Singing Brickyard Blues

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
When Andy Granatelli whooshed into the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in 1967 with a turbine-powered car that outran the competition, the protests of other car owners could not obscure this: The car was legal, and Granatelli was the only man with the vision and resources to take advantage of a small opening in the rules.
This year, another car owner is updating that script, perhaps adding the happy ending that eluded Granatelli when a small part broke with three laps to go. Roger Penske, richly financed by Philip Morris and Mercedes-Benz, is either gambling a lot of money or using it to buy a victory in the Indianapolis 500 next month. 
 As in 1967, there are concerns among other car owners -- this time that Penske will raise speeds at Indianapolis enough to subvert new safety rules, that he will discombobulate the sport's economics by spending millions to build an engine for only one race and that Indy's competitive balance will be destroyed.
Penske and Mercedes announced on Wednesday that Penske's three Marlboro-backed cars will use a Mercedes-financed engine -- designed and built in England by Ilmor Engineering -- in the Indy 500 this year, one year earlier than expected.
But the real significance is that the engine will not be the typical overhead-cam, four-valves-per-cylinder design used in most other Indy-car engines, like the Ford and Honda. Instead, it will be a design allowed at only the Indianapolis 500: a push-rod engine with two valves per cylinder.
All else being equal, an overhead-cam engine would be more powerful because the cams open the valves directly, instead of through rocker arms and push-rods. With twice the number of valves per cylinder, the typical Indy engine has another power edge. But the Indy 500 rules allow a push-rod engine like the Mercedes to be bigger: 209 cubic inches versus 161.7 for overhead-cam engines. Indy also lets these engines use 55 inches of turbocharger boost, a big edge over the 45 inches of the Fords and Hondas.
"Most technical experts say that if you designed a push-rod engine to the current Indy 500 rules, it would have a horsepower advantage," said Dave Hederich, a spokesman for the General Motors Motorsports Technology Group.
The Mercedes engine -- designed and built in just 25 weeks last year -- is thus expected to have a large horsepower edge over, for example, the Ford, which has as much as 800 horsepower. That edge is estimated at anywhere from 10 to 15 percent more to as high as 1,100 horsepower.
"I think we shouldn't talk about horsepower so much," said Wolfgang Schattling, a Mercedes spokesman in Stuttgart, Germany. "We should try to talk about reliability."
"We hope we've got enough power that it's competitive," said Dan Luginbuhl, a Penske Racing spokesman. "But we've also got to run the distance."
 
'A Good Chance'
 Few doubt, however, that Penske -- who marshals all his organizational horsepower for Indy -- would take too much risk in that regard.
"You can bet by him announcing this," said Derrick Walker, a former Penske employee and now a competing car owner, "it has a good chance of doing well."
So far, Luginbuhl said on Friday, the engine has only 2,573 test miles on it -- with no more than 472 miles in one stretch before a breakdown.
"There's going to be a huge escalation in speed and a huge escalation in costs," Walker said. He estimated the cost of such a one-race engine project at $1 million, but others say it is at least twice that.
"We knew there was this opening in the rules, and it was just a matter of time until someone with the resources to take advantage of it came along," Walker said.
"In racing, the first thing you've got to do is read the rule book," Luginbuhl said. "There's been an awful lot of talk about building this type of engine, but nobody ever did it."
Luginbuhl added, "I've already heard from some of our competitors." But their anger, he said, is directed more toward the rule that permitted the engine rather than toward Penske. The rule has existed since 1991, but because it exists only for the Indy 500 -- and not the 15 or so other Indy-car races each year, which are run by another group -- it hasn't been economically viable for car owners to take advantage of it with a one-race engine.
 
Safety Concerns
 "I can understand why Roger would do it," Walker said, "but the safety aspect of it is just a joke. God knows what the speeds are going to be like."
A few years ago, before steps were taken to slow the cars at the speedway, cars were reaching 244 miles an hour at the track's fastest point, entering Turn 3. With an engine as strong as the new Mercedes, that figure could hit 250 m.p.h. this year.
When practice for the race opens on May 7, Penske's three drivers -- Al Unser Jr., Emerson Fittipaldi and Paul Tracy -- may not hit warp speed immediately. "If I was Roger, I'd be playing possum all month," Walker said, so there wouldn't be a risk of a rule change by the speedway before the May 29 race.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (84%); ENGLAND (55%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (97%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCEDES-BENZ

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (84%); ENGLAND (55%); INDIANA, USA (97%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RACING; INDIANAPOLIS 500 (AUTO RACE); ENGINES AUTO RACING (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (71%); 

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH; PENSKE, ROGER ROGER S PENSKE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



423 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Reds Under the Bed

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the wake of charges that a high C.I.A. official was a Russian "mole," an old question is being newly raised: how deeply did the Soviet Union penetrate the American Government?
Through two generations, that issue poisoned relations between liberals and conservatives. The liberals' villains were Joe McCarthy and Roy Cohn, and to a lesser extent, Whittaker Chambers and Richard Nixon. Among the conservatives' villains were the diplomat Alger Hiss, the nuclear scientist J. Robert Oppenheimer and the Lillian Hellmans who defended them. 
 Judging by a damning book out today by Stalin's favorite hit man, it's going to be a tough year for "anti-anti-Communists."
Pavel Sudoplatov, author with his son of "Special Tasks," is a loathsome killer. On Stalin's orders, he arranged for the assassination of Leon Trotsky; he hails Beria and derides Khrushchev. Self-serving and untrustworthy he may be, but the 87-year-old spy is, as the editors Jerrold and Leona Schecter write, "the surviving institutional memory of the Russian intelligence service's covert operations from the 1920s to 1953."
The news lede in the book, as excerpted in this week's Time magazine, is his detailed account of the way Oppenheimer, as well as Enrico Fermi and Leo Szilard, were enlisted as Soviet sources of information in the race to build the atomic bomb.
Though not Soviet contract agents, these great scientists were knowing sources for his K.G.B. operatives, reports Sudoplatov. Their motive in revealing secrets to Moscow -- beginning with Oppenheimer's leak to the Soviets of Einstein's original letter to F.D.R. -- was not to betray the U.S., but to share information with Russian scientists to defeat the Nazis.
Not all our top scientists arrogated to themselves that momentous national security decision; the K.G.B. tried and failed to attract George Kistiakowsky and Edward Teller.
Like Oppenheimer, Alger Hiss was not a paid or controlled agent, according to Sudoplatov; Hiss, K.G.B. code name "Mars," was merely "very close to our sources . . . highly sympathetic . . . a source of agent information for the Silvermaster spy cell . . . his behavior followed instructions he may have learned in the 1930s: never admit anything."
To those interested in the Ames case, the most intriguing sentences in the book attribute an allegation to an 81-year-old friend of Sudoplatov's in military intelligence, unnamed because a son serves in government. "The retired GRU officer remembers that there was a controlled agent source of information in Roosevelt's office. He was Roosevelt's assistant on intelligence affairs, and he was on bad terms with William Donovan and J. Edgar Hoover, head of the O.S.S. and the FBI, respectively."
Was there a Soviet mole in the Oval Office during World War II?
The confessed Communist courier Elizabeth Bentley identified Lauchlin Currie, an economist, and Harry Dexter White, a Treasury Assistant Secretary, as witting sources, and fingered Duncan Chaplin Lee, a law partner and later assistant to the O.S.S.'s General Donovan, as an N.K.V.D. agent. (Lee, a descendant of Robert E. Lee, denied this under oath.) But nobody has suggested a confidant of F.D.R.'s was a "controlled agent."
Assuming Sudoplatov's secondhand, unsupported recollection is true, who could that early mole be?
Two C.I.A. historians I checked say the description (F.D.R. assistant on intelligence, disliked by Donovan and Hoover) could apply to John Franklin Carter, a newspaper columnist and novelist (always a nefarious combination) who used the pen name Jay Franklin. He and a staff of six, on State Department payroll, supplied F.D.R. with reports on Nazi leaders -- and, at one time, an analysis of Soviet intelligence. He died in 1967, an ardent anti-Communist.
This fellow might have been a "controlled agent" or a patriot. As more documents and memoirs come out of the K.G.B. woodwork, we will learn more -- not just about F.D.R.'s day, but about more recent penetration agents in our intelligence agencies.
Spooks call the resultant reassessment "walking back the cat." Historians and biographers will have to reshuffle shibboleths about familiar villains and heroes. And among present and retired intelligence officers, "the Second Man" is getting worried.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: SPECIAL TASK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (76%); WRITERS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JOHN FRANKLIN; ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945); SAFIRE, WILLIAM; SUDOPLATOV, PAVEL RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



424 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: CUNY to Train Recruits For Police in Puerto Rico

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

 BODY:
Tomorrow, almost 900 students will begin their first day of classes in a new City University of New York program to train police officers and confer on them an associate degree in police science.
The program is in Puerto Rico. 
 Trustees for the City University approved the proposal last month, saying the university wanted to help Puerto Rico make its police force a professional one at a time when its governor was mounting a war on crime. The students will be local recruits who will work in Puerto Rico's police force after graduating from the nine-month program.
The new program, on the campus of the Puerto Rican Police Academy, will be operated by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, which is part of CUNY. The college will send 13 faculty members to Puerto Rico to conduct a program in police science identical to the one offered in New York, but in Spanish. John Jay will also provide staff members to help with testing, admissions and counseling of the police cadets, who are on the Puerto Rican Government's payroll as they go through the program.
Even though the program appears to have no direct benefit to students at economically pressed Cuny, the CUNY chairman, James P. Murphy, called it an "exciting project." And Herman Badillo, a CUNY trustee and member of the board's academic affairs committee, said, "It seems to me it enhances the image of John Jay." Mr. Badillo, a native of Puerto Rico, visited the campus there in February at the invitation of John Jay's president, Gerald W. Lynch.
But some faculty members and administrators said the program had come about so quietly that they had been left out of the planning.
The idea began early last year, when officials in Puerto Rico called Howard Simmons, executive director of the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, to ask if he knew of a college that would help Puerto Rico set up a degree program for its police academy. Middle States is an accrediting agency that reviews college programs in five states as well as Puerto Rico.
"We get calls all the time from people asking 'Can you give us the name of a place that would be helpful to us?' so I said John Jay," Dr. Simmons said. John Jay provides academic programs for members of the Police Department and specializes in other law-enforcement programs.
Kenneth Moran, chairman of John Jay's law department, police science and criminal justice, said he was told about the idea early last year.
 
'People Were Stunned'
 "The superintendent of the Puerto Rican police came to the college a whole year earlier and asked us to give them technical help," he said. "It started and stopped, started and stopped. First it was maybe we'll help them with training. Then it was, why not try to upgrade their program, and then it was decided to offer an associate degree."
Dr. Moran said the plan was to begin the program in September 1994. But then in December, he said, "We got a little surprise." That was when he learned that the police academy in Puerto Rico wanted to move up the start of the program to this winter.
While a few faculty members had known about the program since its inception, the majority did not learn about it until a meeting on Dec. 22, after Dr. Lynch had signed an agreement to proceed with the program. "People were stunned," said Dorothy Bracey, an anthropology professor, who like other faculty members learned the details of the plan at a meeting on Dec. 22. "That's the best way to describe how we all felt."
There were questions about the cost of the program, about the problem of language since most faculty members do not speak Spanish and textbooks are in English, and about how applicable many of their classes would be since they are based on the legal and penal system here, and not that of Puerto Rico.
They were concerned that the classes would begin so soon, and that an associate degree would be granted after six months, which was the original plan until it was extended, when it usually takes students here two years to earn such a degree.
Dr. Lynch, the John Jay president, told them that the college would make money from the program as it would be taught by lower-paid adjuncts, with the students' tuition underwritten by Pell Grants, a Federal program for economically disadvantaged students. The other issues, he said, would be worked out.
After discussions with administrators at the central office, the program was postponed to April 19, and was extended to nine months. But it was also decided that most of the faculty members would be full professors.
With the higher cost of professors' salaries, Dr. Lynch said, the program will "break even." According to the trustees' resolution, John Jay is ultimately responsible for the cost of the program.
Four faculty members will fly back and forth through the end of this semester, at CUNY expense, to teach classes at both locations, costs that are not included in the budget submitted to the board of trustees. Seven others are either adjuncts with no classes this semester or are retired professors. Officials are still seeking two more professors for the program.
Translators will be used, or adjuncts from Puerto Rico will be used to teach the courses in Spanish, while John Jay's professors will oversee them.
"The officials and people of Puerto Rico are to be highly commended for wanting to have a college-educated police force," said Karen Kaplowitz, president of the John Jay faculty senate. "Our job now is to insure that the branch campus will be academically sound and at the same time insure that we continue to fulfill our responsibilities to John Jay's 9,300 students here in New York."
Dr. Lynch said that the critics are in the minority, and that most people at John Jay can see the noble reasons behind helping the Puerto Ricans to improve their police force.
"The reality is that Puerto Rico is almost an air bridge to New York," he said. "We have an affinity and an interest in helping them, and we were asked to help. We saw it as very compatible with our mission of combining training and education."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, a picture yesterday showing the police training program operated in Puerto Rico by the City University of New York was published in mirror image. The man with the shotgun should have appeared at the right.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Puerto Rico Police Academy in Gurabo, P.R., demonstrating how to subdue a suspect in a exercise last week at a orientation for faculty members of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. (Miguel Maldonado for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY); PUERTO RICAN POLICE ACADEMY PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY); PUERTO RICAN POLICE ACADEMY CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; ; PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE POLICE FORCES (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); ACCREDITATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA HERMAN BADILLO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



425 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Guarding the Image in Newark;
City Bars Local Filming of a Movie About Teen-Age Car Bandits

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 16

 BODY:
After decades of trying to claw its way out of the ranks of urban has-beens, Newark can be a bit prickly about its image. The local boosters often complain that no matter how much they rebuild their venerable but often pitied city, they cannot wipe away the stains left by a history of poverty, bad schools and rampant car theft.
So when a young director named Nick Gomez recently sought permission to shoot a movie about Newark in the city itself, municipal officialdom winced. Backed by the film maker Spike Lee, Mr. Gomez had written a screenplay, "New Jersey Drive," about the reckless teen-age car bandits who have given the city gobs of unflattering publicity in recent years. 
 "My reaction was, 'Over my dead body will they film this in Newark,' " said Pamela E. Goldstein, who as chief spokeswoman for Mayor Sharpe James reviews applications for making movies in the city. Ever eager to bury the memories of the years when Newark was proclaimed the nation's car-theft capital, Ms. Goldstein politely told Mr. Gomez to take his $4 million budget elsewhere.
Newark's rejection of the project -- despite the money it might have pumped into the limping local economy -- perhaps reflects a growing tendency among civic leaders across the country to restrict filming of movies that they feel malign their localities or institutions.
Earlier this year, the New York City Transit Authority banned the shooting of subway scenes that it considered too violent, though it later backed off after being criticized by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
And in 1990, New Jersey's Chief Justice, Robert N. Wilentz, refused to let the producers of "The Bonfire of the Vanities" film at the Essex County Courthouse in Newark because, he said, the scenes might erode the confidence of black people in the judicial system. The film makers had already met with criticism in the Bronx, where much of "Bonfire" is set.
But the icy reception of Mr. Gomez's proposal is also a fair indication that for this city of 275,000 on the Passaic River, the wounds inflicted by the sharp rise in car thefts in the late 1980's and early 1990's still sting. News accounts of the crimes painted Newark as a kind of urban badlands even as billions of dollars were being spent to revitalize its business district and to make improvements to neighborhoods that never really rebounded from the riots of the 1960's.
"Through a very sophisticated public relations campaign mounted by elected and major corporate figures, Newark had pretty much recast itself as a city on the move and a city that was solving many of its most nagging problems," said Clement Alexander Price, a professor at Rutgers University's Newark campus who specializes in local history. "The car thefts tarnished this highly buffed image of a city rising from the ashes."
Disappointed but not exactly surprised, Mr. Gomez went hunting for a city double that had some of the same feel as Newark: wide avenues lined with towering housing projects, weather-beaten specimens of Gothic architecture harking back to turn-of-the-century glory, gentle hills and a sense of inner-city isolation mingling with the nearness of suburbia. He landed in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and Glendale, Queens.
A relatively inexpensive film by Hollywood standards, "New Jersey Drive" tells the story of two teen-agers, Jason and Midget, who have drifted into a subculture in Newark's poor neighborhoods that thrives on stealing cars and racing them on roadways and even sidewalks. The youths, some still in junior high school, taunt the police while executing breathtakingly dangerous maneuvers to impress their friends.
Mr. Gomez, 30, visited housing projects in Newark a number of times to talk with some of the youthful thieves and to find teen-agers to cast in the movie, which features little-known actors. In an interview on location the other day, he recalled that the people he met reminded him of his years growing up in working-class Boston, when he sometimes stole cars.
 
'Sense of Control'
 "It's all about cruising around and getting cars and trying to pick up girls and having a certain amount of freedom and mobility," said Mr. Gomez, whose first major film was the critically acclaimed independent film "Laws of Gravity," about two small-time hoods in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. "But we weren't as isolated, disenfranchised and poverty-stricken as the people in Newark are."
"It's a real sense of control, power and luxury," Mr. Gomez said. "It's a sense of identity. It's pretty much an all-American rite of passage, if you think about certain socioeconomic groups."
In the movie, the Newark police become so frustrated by their inability to stop the teen-agers that their tactics turn brutal. The portrayal of the police seems influenced by the case of Howard Caesar, the Newark teen-ager who was shot and seriously wounded in a confrontation with officers in 1992 after parking a stolen car. One officer was convicted of aggravated assault in the episode.
In an odd twist, Mr. Caesar, now 19, was arrested last month on charges that he and four others took part in a wild crime spree that included a carjacking, shootings, robberies and the ramming of a police car. Mr. Caesar's lawyer contends that the police framed him because of the 1992 incident.
The depiction of the Newark police was one aspect of the screenplay that angered Ms. Goldstein and other Newark officials. She criticized Mr. Gomez for demonizing the officers and presenting the teen-agers as heroes.
"It is glamorizing something that shouldn't be glamorized," she said, noting that the city had rarely turned down film or television projects in the past. She also pointed out that the script makes no reference to the sharp decline in car thefts in Newark in recent years, from 15,698 in 1989 to 11,875 in 1993, according to police statistics.
 
Heated Rivalry
 The streetwise Mr. Gomez, who has a closely trimmed goatee and shaved head, was unapologetic. "The film embraces the kids' attitudes more so that it does the cops'," he said. "It's their story, be they right or be they wrong."
At the height of the Newark car-theft epidemic, there were without a doubt enormous tensions between the police and the teen-agers, which lent an image of lawlessness to a city trying to lure back the middle class. The rivalry became so heated that officers had to be restrained because they were engaging in chases that endangered bystanders. They were permitted to speed after stolen cars only if the thieves were suspected of more-serious crimes.
"We had young policemen, and we had young people stealing cars," Donald Tucker, a member of the Newark City Council, said. "The kids wanted the policemen to chase them. They would get into a macho-macho thing. It was like 'The French Connection.' "
Though Mr. Tucker said he had not read the screenplay for "New Jersey Drive," he said he understood Ms. Goldstein's reaction. But he also maintained that some officials were so fixated on Newark's reputation that they were distracted from governing.
"I don't think it did any damage to the psyche of the city," Mr. Tucker said. "They took a phenomenon that existed within Newark and other municipalities and attempted to describe Newark as the phenomenon."
Neither of the male leads in "New Jersey Drive" is from Newark, though a few of the other actors are. Sharron Corley, 20, who plays Jason, grew up in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and Gabriel Casseus, 19, who plays Midget, is from Harlem -- neighborhoods where car theft is less common than in Newark.
But both said they understood why their characters stole cars.
 
Fake License Plates
 "Among your peers, it gives you what we call 'props' -- respect," said Mr. Casseus, who has acted in theater but is starring in his first film. "When you steal the car, you are looked upon as someone higher up. It's our way of validating ourselves. It's a way of gaining status."
Mr. Gomez originally wanted to set the film in Boston or Washington Heights in Manhattan. But after reading articles about teen-agers in Newark written by Michel Marriott, a reporter for The New York Times, Mr. Gomez changed his mind.
Mr. Marriott later wrote the story for "New Jersey Drive" together with Mr. Gomez. Spike Lee is the executive producer of the film, which is being made for Gramercy Pictures and is to be released later this year.
Though he has had to re-create Newark in Williamsburg and Glendale, forcing his producers to come up with a garage full of fake New Jersey license plates and Newark police cars, Mr. Gomez said he did not resent being snubbed. And he noted that even if he had received permission, he still might have shot some scenes in Brooklyn because it was closer to his film studio and home in Manhattan.
"They are thinking of their own civic identity, which is completely logical to me," he said. "But it's too bad. Newark is a beautiful city. It has a lot of stuff that's good for movies. You point a camera in a certain way and there's going to be something about it that's interesting."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about Newark officials' refusal to allow the filming of the movie "New Jersey Drive" in their city referred incorrectly in some copies to the position of the director, Nick Gomez, in the photo. He was at the left, near the camera, pointing with his left hand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick Gomez, left, instructing cameraman on the set of "New Jersey Drive," about reckless teen-age car bandits in Newark. He is directing the film in Brooklyn and Queens because Newark rejected the project, despite the money it might have pumped into the local economy. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NEW JERSEY DRIVE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; AUTOMOBILES; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MOVIE FILMING (91%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); ROBBERY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); HISTORY (76%); BUDGETS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GOMEZ, NICK; LEVY, CLIFFORD J RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994



426 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Punishing China Will Hurt the Chinese

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Chinese dissidents and their supporters in the United States want to extricate themselves from the dilemma of trying to force China to improve its human rights conditions by threatening to revoke China's trade privileges while hurting the Chinese people by inflicting damage to the Chinese economy and giving an excuse to hardliners to crack down even harder on dissent. 
 Now, in "How to Boost China's Free Market -- and Punish the State" (Op-Ed, April 7), Fang Lizhi and Zhao Haiching advocate selective sanctions, punishing only the state sector.
But the fallacy is obvious.
You cannot compartmentalize the economy. The problem is not just trying to determine what is and what is not state enterprise, which is difficult enough. It is that the people who work for state enterprises are also ordinary Chinese and consumers. And there are 1,001 links between the state and the private sector. You punish the state, and you punish the national economy as a whole.
It may be true that "virtually all of the recognized leaders of the China democracy movement active in the U.S." (that is, Mr. Fang and Mr. Zhao) agree on selective sanctions. But many other democracy campaigners disagree.
Those other democracy campaigners are for delinking trade and human rights. Not because human rights are unimportant, but because they can best be served by means other than trade, such as diplomacy and public opinion.
Many Chinese intellectuals, while dissatisfied with human rights conditions in China, are critical of some dissidents living in this country who depend on foreign governments for their political activities and their livelihood. And that is why they have little influence on developments in China, and their own future is very much in doubt.
 
SUCHU ZHANG
Flushing, Queens, April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; ; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: FANG LIZHI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1994



427 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Autopsy Data Inconclusive In Baby Death

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
An autopsy on the baby of a Canadian couple who concocted a kidnapping hoax in New York City last weekend to conceal her death and the abandonment of her body in a Quebec woods found no signs of violence, abuse or malnutrition, but further tests will be needed to pinpoint the cause of death, Canadian officials said yesterday.
The 10-week-old baby, Muguet Bales-Lemay, was found Sunday near Eastman, 20 miles north of the Vermont line, with the aid of a map drawn by her parents, Joseph Bales, 33, and Helene Lemay, 31. The couple said they had concealed what they called her crib death on April 8 and had hidden her body because they had been accused of abusing a foster child last year and feared serious new charges. 
 While the parents were still being questioned by Canadian police officers in New York yesterday, the autopsy, performed by the Quebec coroner's office in Montreal, found nothing to contradict their account and no signs of deprivation or injury, a spokesman, Francois Houle, said in a telephone interview.
 
Body Preserved by Cold Weather
 "The medical causes of the death remain inexplicable for the moment," Mr. Houle said. He said definitive results might take weeks, after toxicological, histological and other tests. He said the child's body, in the woods for more than a week before being found, had been preserved by cold weather.
The parents, whose kidnapping claim on Saturday had unraveled within hours, were being questioned by two Quebec detectives at the 20th Precinct station house on West 82d Street last night. But it was unclear if they would face any criminal charges in the case, or even if they would be returned to Canada in custody.
New York officials said they intended to drop a charge of filing a false report. Tom McConnell, a Quebec police spokesman, said the Quebec Crown Attorney would decide today whether to file any charges. The couple could be charged with illegally disposing of a body, a felony punishable by up to five years in prison, or face other charges arising from the autopsy, he said.
Mr. Bales and Ms. Lemay, who had lived in St. Romain, Quebec, for three years but moved to Cornwall, Ontario, on the day after Muguet's death, drove to New York last Friday with their 4-year-old daughter, Priscille, and checked into a hotel on East 31st Street. They carried a doll to convince Priscille that the baby was with them.
On Saturday afternoon, they told the police Muguet had vanished 18 hours earlier from a Central Park bench while her father napped beside her. The report touched off a huge search as scuba drivers scoured the Lake, helicopters flew over the park and 100 officers covered the grounds.
But detectives -- whose suspicions had been aroused by the 18-hour reporting gap, which the couple could not satisfactorily explain -- soon discovered that the parents had crossed the American border and checked into a New York hotel with only an older child, and that they had been accused of child abuse last year.
The French-speaking couple at first tried to hide behind the language barrier, but when confronted with contradictions and misrepresentations they admitted the hoax early Sunday, saying they had tried to pass it off in New York because they thought it might be lost in the myriad woes of the city.
They also gave a dramatic new account, saying Muguet had died in her crib 10 days earlier of unknown causes and that because they feared serious charges, they did not report her death but abandoned her body in the woods near Eastman. They drew a crude map that was sent by fax to Quebec and led the police to the body. Priscille was returned to Canada yesterday in the custody of child welfare officials.
The police, quoting Canadian child welfare authorities, said that the couple had taken a severely retarded foster son about 3 or 4 years old into their home more than a year ago, but that the child had been removed after he was found to be malnourished and to show signs of abuse, including fractures.
In St. Romain, a village of fewer than 1,000 people 35 miles north of the New Hampshire line, the two-story home where the couple had lived stood empty yesterday, a desolate cinder-block structure with a sagging porch set on a barren, muddy field.
Neighbors recalled the couple as unusual -- Seventh-day Adventists in a Roman Catholic community, strict vegetarians who refused to eat any animal products, who did odd jobs, avoided visitors, did not allow toys and planned to educate their children at home.
Mr. Bales was said to be an unemployed handyman who had an unbending belief in certain dietary and religious principles, while Ms. Lemay was said to have several university degrees in psychology and to give correspondence courses in diet and other subjects to earn a living.
One neighbor, Annette Bretton, said she had invited the family to dinner not long ago and found Priscille so well behaved it seemed unsettling. She gave the girl a balloon, but was told by Mr. Bales that she did not have or play with toys and quoted him as saying, "Life is too serious -- she shouldn't get used to playing."
Mrs. Bretton said she went to visit the couple recently, but had not been allowed in the house. Mr. Bales went in and brought Ms. Lemay out to talk on the porch, she said. "It was very mysterious," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HOTEL (84%); MUGUET BALES-LEMAY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CENTRAL PARK (NYC); ST ROMAIN (QUEBEC); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE; HOAXES AUTOPSIES (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME (78%); DEATHS (78%); FELONIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); MALNUTRITION (73%); FOSTER CARE (73%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; BALES-LEMAY, MUGET; LEMAY, HELENE; BALES, JOSEPH JOSEPH BALES (62%); HELENE LEMAY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



428 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS: Corporate Communicating;
The Fax Flood Shows Little Sign of Receding

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Like kudzu, paper spews out endlessly from the office fax machine, crucial reports and rubbish alike. Missed two pages of a 40-page document? No problem -- The whole thing will be resent.
If the facsimile flood at your office seems out of control, it probably is -- as it is at most major American companies, according to a survey by the Gallup Organization. 
 A Gallup poll that will be released today found that fax transmissions account for 36 percent of telephone bills at Fortune 500 companies. And in this age of corporate penny pinching, the facsimile operation is apparently a notable exception. Of 400 telecommunications managers polled earlier this year, 62 percent said they had no policies to try to curb fax costs.
"Companies just plop down fax machines in every department, and nobody thinks about them," said Peter Davidson, a consultant on fax services in Burbank, Calif.
The results of the Gallup poll, sponsored by the facsimile systems business of Pitney Bowes Inc., also underline how little headway electronic mail has made in becoming a routine means of corporate communications.
The cost of sending a one-page E-mail message from New York to California over a commercial on-line service linked to the Internet, the worldwide cluster of computer networks, is less than 2 cents, according to Advanced Network and Services, a builder of computer networks. By contrast, a letter costs 29 cents and a fax can cost even more, the company said.
Facsimile companies question claims that E-mail has a big cost advantage, especially when companies use fax machines equipped with high-speed modems, or send faxes after 5 P.M., when phone rates decline.
But the real appeal of fax machines is that they are easy to use and are an entrenched part of the daily office regimen in a way that E-mail is not.
What the Gallup survey apparently did not explore was the cultural reasons why people are fond of faxes as a means of communication.
"Send me a fax on that," is an efficient, time-saving way to get rid of someone without being overtly rude. It is the American corporate equivalent of the British dismissal, "Let's have lunch someday."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION PITNEY BOWES INC (69%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); ADVANCED NETWORK & SERVICE INC (54%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLUP ORGANIZATION GALLUP ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FACSIMILE SYSTEMS; PUBLIC OPINION; CORPORATIONS; FINANCES POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MODEMS (65%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



429 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: A Tunnel Waiting Two Decades for a Train;
Shafts for the Second Avenue Subway Are Maintained, in Case the Line Is Ever Built

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
The lights, strung on makeshift wires between steel girders, dimly illuminate a long shaft that seems to stretch far into the distance. As Mike Hardiman, a Transit Authority supervisor, strolls with a flashlight on the subway tunnel's floor, there is a deep rumble.
The impulse is to flee before a train comes roaring out of the darkness. But it is only an illusion. In the two decades since the section of tunnel was dug beneath Second Avenue in East Harlem, no train has disturbed the stillness. The rumble comes from a truck on the street three stories above.
 
Ambition and Failure
 The fate of the Second Avenue subway has long been part of the lore of New York City, becoming a metaphor for expansive governmental ambition followed by equally large-scale failure. The line has already died not once, but twice. 
 Yet it remains on a kind of infrastructure life support -- inspected and maintained twice monthly -- in case planners find the money some day to finish building the line. The Transit Authority spends about $20,000 a year to keep the tunnel dry and safe from vandals, both to protect its investment and, not incidentally, to keep the street above from collapsing.
The Second Avenue subway died for the first time a generation ago, when work on the first three sections of the subway tunnel, a total of about a mile of the planned 14-mile route, was halted in 1975 because of the city's fiscal crisis.
The second passing, again caused by fiscal troubles, largely escaped public notice when it occurred last year. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo had tried to revive the Second Avenue line three years ago by proposing to spend $22 million to design and plan its completion. The proposal was a small but significant part of a package Mr. Cuomo offered to stimulate the city's economy by building $7 billion worth of projects.
 
Money Cut From Budget
 Although planning for some of those proposals is moving forward,the Second Avenue subway is not. Because of city budget cuts, the $22 million was removed from the Transit Authority's five-year construction plan last year.
But the short-term fiscal duress has not entirely diminished transit planners' long-range hopes for a new subway on Manhattan's East Side -- one that would alleviate rush-hour overcrowding on the Lexington Avenue subway, one of the two most congested lines in the city. And while the Second Avenue subway has been more or less forgotten by the average New Yorker, dismissed as an expensive notion from another age, it remains a potentially valuable asset to the people who run the city's subway system and who are responsible for protecting the unfinished line from the elements, both natural and human, that could reduce its potential value.
Every two weeks, teams of transit inspectors still walk the three sections of tunnel: under Second Avenue from 110th Street to 120th Street and from 99th Street to 105th Street, and a small, 700-foot section under the Bowery in Chinatown, just south of the Manhattan Bridge.
 
The Enemy Is Rust
 The inspectors make sure that the electrical circuits and the water pumps are working, fighting off the water and rust that could undermine the tunnels' structural soundness. They also check the locks and alarms that help keep out the vandals, drug addicts and homeless who occasionally make the tunnels their home.
In Chinatown, homeless people used to camp in the tunnel occasionally, transit officials said, until the locks and other security devices were upgraded. At the south end of the tunnel, an empty canister of Pringle's potato chips, an old plastic soda bottle and a few scattered pages of The Daily News from 1986 are evidence of a previous resident.
Under Second Avenue in East Harlem, used needles attest to the occasional drug abuser seeking privacy. Once, vandals removed all the copper wires from the tunnel, disabling the electrical lines and the water pumps, said Mr. Hardiman, a general superintendent at the Transit Authority in charge of subway's electrical systems.
 
Signs of Water Damage
 The tunnels' gravest enemy is natural, not human. Floods and routine water seepage can rust out the steel girders and undermine the reinforced concrete. On a recent walk through the section that runs from 99th to 105th Street, Mr. Hardiman found piles of flaking rust-colored steel at the bottom of many girders and other signs of water damage.
The agency recently paid a contractor $2 million to shore up the northernmost section, which had suffered considerable water damage over the years.
Despite the wear and tear, many sections of the tunnel appear to have held up quite well. Made of reinforced concrete and steel, the sections were basically completed before construction was halted. No tracks or signals were installed, but the basic shell of the tunnel looks finished. The shafts for each of the two tracks, which are about 20 feet high, are complete, including concrete catwalks with red metal handrails about five feet up on the tunnels' side.
 
'Supporting Second Avenue'
 The Transit Authority continues to pay attention to these most infamous holes in New York City for two reasons. The streets would collapse if the tunnels' girders and concrete were allowed to deteriorate. "You have the integrity of the street above us to worry about," Mr. Hardiman said. "We're supporting Second Avenue."
There is also a more long-range goal in spending the $20,000 a year to maintain the three sections of tunnel: it nurtures the hope that some day the line will be completed.
The Transit Authority's current five-year plan includes $1 million for a consultant's study on reducing overcrowding on Lexington Avenue trains. But for many transit planners, the most compelling solution to that congestion is still a Second Avenue subway, just as it was when the line was designed in the late 1960's.
It cost about $65 million to dig the tunnels 20 years ago. It would undoubtedly cost many times that to rebuild the three sections should they deteriorate. There are no estimates on the cost of completing the line, although it would surely run several billion dollars.
Some planners believe that completion of the Second Avenue subway is likely, though perhaps only in the distant future. The Transit Authority is busy now trying to ease congestion on the line generally judged the most crowded in New York -- the E and F in Queens -- by linking the lines with the underused Q train in Astoria.
Once that connection is completed, several planners said, the Transit Authority is likely to turn its attention in its next five-year plan to solving overcrowding on the Lexington line.
The existence of the Second Avenue sections may weigh heavily in any decision on what to do about overcrowding on the Lexington line. Jerome Forman, a senior vice president of the Transit Authority who is in charge of the capital program, said one option might be to complete the Second Avenue line from 125th Street to 63d Street, where it could connect through an unused tunnel under Central Park with the N and R lines on Seventh Avenue. "If we had the money, we would probably do that," Mr. Forman said.
"That would be two or three times cheaper than going all the way downtown," he said. The Second Avenue subway was originally to go south to the Battery.
But whether there will be enough money in the Transit Authority's next five-year plan, which is to begin in three years, is uncertain. Will the city and state make the investment? Or will they instead focus on renovating existing subway lines?
"If the price of building Second Avenue was that the rest of the system were to decline, then it probably wouldn't happen," Mr. Forman said.
Still, the prospect of finishing the line clearly appeals to many transit officials. "I don't think anybody's had a better solution for the Lexington," Mr. Forman said. "The East Side is very densely populated, it only has the 4 and 5 trains and they come down from the Bronx already crowded."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Second Avenue subway has long been part of the lore of New York City, becoming a metaphor for expansive governmental ambition followed by equally large-scale failure. The planned 14-mile route first died in 1975, because of the city's fiscal crisis, and then again last year. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B2); While the Second Avenue subway has been more or less forgotten by most New Yorkers, it remains a potentially valuable asset to the people who run the city's subway system. Louis Bory, a general superintendent for the Transit Authority, inspected vent chambers. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of manhattan showing location of the Second Avenue subway project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



430 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Zuckerman Postpones Closing Deal for Coliseum

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Faced with a deadline yesterday for closing the deal for his purchase of the New York Coliseum, Mortimer B. Zuckerman exercised his right to another delay, this time at the request of city officials.
"The city has asked us to invoke our right to a 55-day adjournment and we did," Mr. Zuckerman said through a spokesman, Morri Berman. 
 The delay followed several days of pressure by the Giuliani administration on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns the Coliseum property, to renegotiate the contract it has with Mr. Zuckerman on terms that would insure that the developer would go forward with his planned retail and office project.
As part of that effort, the administration again pressed the M.T.A. yesterday to agree to an appraisal of the property at the southwest corner of Central Park at 59th Street.
"We now are making a third request that they make an appraisal or that they join us in having an independent appraisal made," said John Dyson, Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development.
On Friday, in an effort to quiet criticism of his efforts to broker a settlement, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called for a delay in closing the deal and an appraisal of the property.
On Saturday, the M.T.A.'s chairman, Peter E. Stangl agreed to a brief delay but did not endorse the appraisal plan. Because Mr. Zuckerman invoked his right to postpone the closing, the Mayor's request for a delay became moot. M.T.A. officials argued against an independent appraisal, saying it would be difficult to get an accurate value in a rising real-estate market for a site for which there are few comparable properties.
Under the contract Mr. Zuckerman is to build a 2.1-million-square-foot complex that would include retail, residential and office space. But he has argued that because of nearly nine years of delays the site is no longer worth the contract price, $338 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON PROPERTIES INC METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON PROPERTIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; NEW YORK COLISEUM CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES & SELLING (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



431 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Creators Said to Abet Soviet A-Bomb

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
A new book by a high Soviet intelligence official asserts that the chief Western architects of the nuclear era acted as spies to give Moscow the secrets of the atom bomb.
The accused scientists -- Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi, George Gamow, J. Robert Oppenheimer and Leo Szilard -- were lions of science who in the 1930's and early 1940's unlocked the atom and went on to create the world's first nuclear bomb in 1945. 
 Several historians said yesterday that some aspects of the book, including details of the secret workings of Stalinist Russia, were of historical significance. But they questioned its allegation of atomic spying by leading Western scientists as dubious at best and mistaken on some important points.
The book, "Special Tasks: The Memoirs of an Unwanted Witness -- a Soviet Spymaster," was published yesterday by Little, Brown & Company and is excerpted in the current issue of Time magazine. It was written by Pavel Sudoplatov, an intelligence chief during the Stalin era. He was aided in its writing by his son, Anatoly Sudoplatov, an economist at Moscow State University, and by Jerrold L. Schecter, a former Time Moscow bureau chief, and his wife, Leona P. Schecter.
 
Charges Against Oppenheimer
 The book charges that Oppenheimer, the scientific head of the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico, where the bomb was invented, knowingly shared American atomic secrets with Moscow and helped plant a number of Soviet moles deep in his top-secret organization, enabling Russia to quickly break the American monopoly on nuclear arms. Russia exploded its first bomb in 1949, four years after the United States.
The charges against the Western scientists are based on the recollections of Mr. Sudoplatov, a deputy director of foreign intelligence from 1939 until 1942 and from 1944 to 1946 a head of atomic intelligence in the Soviet Union. In these and other jobs, he said, he set up a network of spies and informants who deeply penetrated the American atomic program.
The book does not contain any documents that back up the central charge against the scientists, although it does have documents bearing on other aspects of atomic espionage.
In a forward to the book, Robert Conquest, a respected British historian, calls it "the most sensational, the most devastating, and in many ways the most informative autobiography ever to emerge from the Stalinist milieu."
Priscilla Johnson McMillan, a fellow at Harvard University's Russian Research Center who is writing a book on Oppenheimer's nuclear work, agreed that the overall work was important but questioned its revelations about atomic spying.
"The book as a whole needs to be taken seriously," she said in an interview. "It sheds a lot of light on some of the secret operations of the Stalinist era. But this nuclear chapter appears to be based on gossip and hearsay. Its weakness is an absolute lack of documentary evidence coupled with errors of fact."
An example of an error, she said, was the book's treatment of Klaus Fuchs, a German scientist who went to Los Alamos from Britain and after the war confessed to being a Soviet spy. The book charges that Oppenheimer took special steps to insure that Fuchs got into Los Alamos. But Dr. McMillan said it was well known that the British team went to Los Alamos "as a package."
 
Never Worked at Los Alamos
 Szilard, a Hungarian, was the chief physicist for the Manhattan Project, as the nation's overall atom-bomb project was known. But he never actually worked at Los Alamos, contrary to the new book.
"He never went there during the war," said William Lanouette, author of "Genius in the Shadows," a recent biography of Szilard. The new book also says Szilard, together with Oppenheimer and Fermi, helped Russian agents place moles at Los Alamos, at the Oak Ridge laboratory in Tennessee and at the University of Chicago, where the world's first reactor was built as a stepping-stone to the bomb.
But Mr. Lanouette said Szilard's heavy accent and impertinent manner with military authorities had raised their suspicions and prompted them to have him closely watched by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as well as Army intelligence. He was trailed day and night.
"Any unusual activity would have come to light," Mr. Lanouette said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPECIAL TASKS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (69%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; ATOMIC WEAPONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); ESPIONAGE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J; SZILARD, LEO (1898-1964); OPPENHEIMER, J ROBERT (1904-67); BOHR, NIELS (1885-1962); FERMI, ENRICO (1901-54); GAMOW, GEORGE (1904-68); SUDOPLATOV, PAVEL J ROBERT OPPENHEIMER (92%); LEO SZILARD (85%); WILLIAM LANOUETTE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



432 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
GORAZDE POUNDED BY SERB GUNNERS

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzego vina, April 18

 BODY:
Serbian nationalist artillery opened fire on the refugee-packed eastern Bosnian town of Gorazde again today as the top United Nations general here warned of a humanitarian catastrophe.
Today's attack marked the third day running that the Serbs have promised a cease-fire, only to break it with early-morning shelling, United Nations officials here said. 
 "The assurances given that there would be no further attacks on Gorazde are at this very moment being ignored," Lieut. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, the United Nations commander in Bosnia, said at a news conference here this morning. "There are shells falling at this moment in Gorazde."
This afternoon the Serbs gave another cease-fire pledge, but aid workers in Gorazde reported heavy shelling of the town at 6 P.M.
The three-week Serbian offensive against Gorazde has gutted the credibility of the United Nations operation in Bosnia as well as the peace efforts of the United States and Russia, diplomats and United Nations officials here said.
[President Clinton's national security advisers will recommend the broader use of air power to force the Serbs back to the bargaining table, Administration officials said. The United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, threw his weight behind that approach by asking NATO to give him the authority to request air strikes to protect all six United Nations-designated "safe areas" in Bosnia. Page A10.]
The United Nations Security Council declared Gorazde a "safe area" last year after a similar Serbian offensive against the nearby Muslim enclave of Srebrenica.
The United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, warned two weeks ago that the Gorazde "safe area," and the 65,000 people trapped in it, might be protected by air strikes if the Serbs did not withdraw to the positions they held on March 30, the day the offensive began.
NATO jet fighters carried out two limited air strikes last week, but they were under a Security Council resolution calling for protection of United Nations personnel, not the "safe area" itself, and did little more than delay for three days the Serbian onslaught that finally brought Gorazde to its knees.
General Rose asserted that "in no way is our contribution terminated" in Gorazde. But early this morning a British pilot shot down over the pocket on Saturday afternoon and 7 of the 12 United Nations military observers in the pocket were evacuated by helicopter.
A United Nations official here said Gorazde's Mayor, Ismet Briga, wept when he heard the observers had left by night.
The observers, British special forces troops, were sent into the Gorazde pocket to provide accurate information on the military situation and act as target spotters for NATO jets, United Nations officials said.
"Their equipment is obviously powered by batteries," the General said. "Those batteries have run out, and it was pointless leaving them there."
 
Relentless Shelling
 But United Nations military officers said the evacuation was prompted by fears for the safety of the men if they were captured by the Serbs. Five United Nations military observers and a handful of aid workers remain in Gorazde.
Reports by United Nations relief workers said Serbian shells were striking Gorazde at a rate of one every 20 seconds this morning, but that rate dropped to one every two minutes by this afternoon. Fierce clashes between Bosnian Army and Serbian forces were being waged on the edge of the town, a United Nations military official said.
"After a break between 10 and 10:30, shelling of the city center started again, with hits reported on the police station, courthouse, 'Panorama' refugee center," said a report filed this afternoon by a United Nations refugee-relief worker in the town. "These are all located 50 to 100 meters from the hospital."
A Western diplomat who asked not to be identified said today that the Bosnians were using the hospital for a military purpose. The diplomat did not elaborate.
"We are on the brink of a humanitarian disaster there," General Rose said.
 
302 Killed, 1,075 Wounded
 According to an incomplete tally, the Serbian offensive has killed 302 people and wounded 1,075, the United Nations report said. More than 30,000 people, almost half of the population of the Gorazde pocket, have been rendered homeless, some for the second and third time in the war.
The Serbs launched the offensive against Gorazde as part of a campaign to uproot the entire Muslim population from the Drina River valley, which forms the border between Bosnia and Serbia and had a Muslim majority before the war.
Serbian "ethnic cleansing" campaigns cleared almost all of the Muslims from the towns of Zvornik and Bijeljina early in the war, which began in April 1992.
A year ago the Serbs struck against Srebrenica and Zepa, herding tens of thousands of Muslims into tiny pockets of land. After these attacks Srebrenica, Zepa and Gorazde were declared "safe areas" by the United Nations Security Council.
 
Full Assault Unlikely
 Military analysts here said the Serbs are not likely to carry out a full assault on the town of Gorazde itself, fearing it would lead to a bloodbath that could prompt armed international intervention.
Rather, they say, the Serbs will maintain their chokehold on the Gorazde pocket, as they have around Srebrenica and Zepa, in an effort to render the area so economically unviable that the Muslims choose to leave of their own accord.
A Western diplomat here said the Serbs' attack on Gorazde has scuttled a United States peace initiative in Bosnia.
"It is very difficult to conceive of a peace process now," the diplomat said. "The actions of the Serbs over the last week have been directed toward making war. I don't see how you can talk peace."
"The last week has seen a series of offer after offer from the United Nations and the Russians," the diplomat said. "Day by day, promise after promise was broken."
"We have to take whatever steps we can to shore up the United Nations position," the diplomat said, referring to the efforts of the United Nations to secure a 10-week cease-fire around Sarajevo, to safeguard the other United Nations "safe areas" in Bosnia and to restructure the mandate of the United Nations military force here.
 
U.N. Aides Humiliated
 "There are a lot of people in Gorazde, and we need to take care of them first," he said, alluding to the possibility that the Serbs would effectively use the people trapped in Gorazde as hostages to bind the hands of the international community if it made a decision to take more energetic action against the Serbs. "We have to be very careful on that score."
The diplomats said Serbian leaders had humiliated members of the entourage of Yasushi Akashi, the top-ranking United Nations diplomat in the region, who at least twice this week blocked calls by General Rose for air strikes against the Serbs and continued to negotiate with Serbian leaders despite being personally double-crossed at least once.
Mr. Akashi left Sarajevo today for Zagreb, the headquarters of the United Nations military force in the former Yugoslavia.
The United States' special envoy, Charles Redman, also flew out of Sarajevo this afternoon for Zagreb and eventually Washington. "

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS: The 'Safe Areas' in Bosnia: An Update"
 
City: Bihac
Armed conflict: Sporadic fighting.
Aid status: Supplies coming by land from Zagreb.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 27,000
 
City: Gorazde
Armed conflict: Intense shelling and effectively in Serbian control.
Aid status: No aid since March 22.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 30,000
 
City: Sarajevo
Armed conflict: Cease-fire holding but minor violations over last 10 days.
Aid status: Airlift suspended over the weekend because of fighting, but should resume shortly; convoys suspended.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 280,000
 
City: Srebrenica
Armed conflict: Quiet.
Aid status: Airdrops and convoys halted for safety concerns.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 44,000
 
City: Tuzla
Armed conflict: Shelling in the last 10 days, some near the airport
Aid status: Aid coming by land from Metkovic.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 450,000
 
City: Zepa
Armed conflict: Quiet.
Aid status: Airdrops and convoys halted for safety concerns.
Population assisted by the U.N.*: 10,000
 
*Numbers assisted by the U.N. are often smaller than the actual population.
 
(Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (90%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (90%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; GORAZDE (BOSNIA); SARAJEVO (BOSNIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); HELICOPTERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



433 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: FED AGAIN RAISES SHORT-TERM RATE ON LOANS, TO 3.75%

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates today for the third time in two and a half months, trying once again to slow the nation's brisk economic growth before it begins to feed inflation.
The announcement prompted swift criticism from Democrats on Capitol Hill, a sharp fall in stock and bond prices and a large increase by big banks in the rates they charge for many adjustable-rate mortgages and some credit cards. 
 With the move today, the Federal Reserve raised its target for the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 3.75 percent from 3.5 percent.
White House officials, who had privately maintained until recently that short-term rates above 4 percent would be unacceptable, quickly retreated from that position today as it seemed increasingly likely that the Federal Reserve would breach that level soon.
President Clinton, visiting Milwaukee today, said of the Federal Reserve move, "This is still within the range of interest rates that should not do anything to harm the economy."
Top Federal Reserve officials had signaled in interviews over the last two weeks that they planned to increase short-term interest rates again even though they perceived no signs of immediate inflation.
The Federal Reserve's concern, officials say, is that low rates have encouraged banks to make too many loans, pushing the economy to grow so fast that companies and individuals will begin to bid up wages and the price of goods and services, producing inflation.
In deciding to raise rates today, the Federal Reserve seemed to have been influenced by strong growth in employment in March and extremely high car sales. The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, is a former economics consultant who worked for Detroit's auto makers and has long followed their production figures as a signal of the economy's basic health and as a leading indicator of future inflation.
Wall Street economists expect that the next time the Federal Reserve raises short-term interest rates, possibly as early as the middle of next month, it will also increase the discount rate, which is the rate it charges on its own loans to banks. The discount rate has remained unchanged at 3 percent through the last three increases in the Federal funds rate, despite growing pressures from regional Federal Reserve Banks to raise it, too. Gradual interest rate changes have been the hallmark of Mr. Greenspan's tenure.
The Federal Reserve has already increased the Federal funds rate twice this year, a quarter-percentage point at a time, on Feb. 4 and March 22. The Feb. 4 move was the first increase in five years.
Today's increase, like the earlier increases, caused sharp moves in stock and bond prices and made yet another contribution to the steady rise in long-term interest rates, especially home mortgage rates. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 41.05 points today, to 3,620.42, and the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds climbed to 7.41 percent from 7.28 percent Friday.
By this afternoon, big banks, led by Citibank and Chemical Bank, had reacted by raising their prime rates half a point, to 6.75 percent. Banks once charged the prime rate to their best corporate customers, but mainly use it these days to set rates for consumer debts, including some credit cards and adjustable-rate mortgages.
The big banks did not match the Federal Reserve's first rate increase in February, so their action today means that the prime rate has risen only as much as the Federal funds rate this spring, a situation that is likely to help banks maintain their unusually large current profit margins. The difference between the prime rate and the rates at which banks borrow money -- which is the banks' profit -- has been historically wide in the last couple of years because banks never cut their rates as deeply as the Federal Reserve did in 1991 and 1992.
Mr. Greenspan made today's decision to raise interest rates after a telephone conference call with other senior Federal Reserve officials, said Joseph R. Coyne, the Federal Reserve's chief spokesman. No vote was held on the move, Mr. Coyne said.
Some Federal Reserve officials have said in recent weeks that the Fed's regional presidents want to limit the chairman's discretion to act on interest rate changes between meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Federal Reserve panel that sets interest rates. The 12 regional presidents attend the panel's meetings and rotate casting their five votes.
John P. Lipsky, the chief economist at Salomon Brothers Inc., said that the move today -- and the willingness of Federal Reserve officials to emphasize Mr. Greenspan's responsibility -- seemed calculated to show the chairman was still in charge.
Both the Federal Reserve's rate increase and the rise in the prime rate that followed caused some annoyance today at the White House, but even more alarm on Capitol Hill among Democrats who fear that efforts to slow economic growth will hurt them politically.
White House officials expressed no criticism of the Federal Reserve today, choosing instead to offer the explanation that the latest rate increase shows the economy's strength. Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen had effectively given the Federal Reserve leeway to raise interest rates further when he said on Saturday that he anticipated that target for the Federal funds rate would reach 4 percent by the end of the year.
 
An Unworried Response
 Mr. Bentsen said in a speech today in Salt Lake City that while interest rates might have risen, they had not climbed enough to become a problem. "Rising interest rates are a worry if they threaten to choke off investment and employment," he said. "That's not happening, not a sign of it."
A Treasury official who insisted on anonymity said the agency had no objection to the banks' prime rate increase because it came after months of rising interest rates in financial markets.
The Administration's muted response to recent rate increases reflects both a reassessment of the economy's strength and a political calculation.
Politically, the White House has concluded that higher interest rates will not ripple through the economy fast enough to hurt the re-election prospects this year of Democratic members of Congress. Most economists estimate that higher rates take at least a year to slow economic growth.
"Everyone knows that the impact of interest rates is 9, 12, 14 months out," said Robert D. Reischauer, the director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. He predicted that higher interest payments on the national debt would have little immediate effect on the Federal budget deficit.
 
Revising Forecasts

 
 The White House has forecast economic growth this year of 3 percent. But Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, said in an interview on Friday evening, "Right now, there is firm evidence suggesting that the economy is growing faster than 3."
Ms. Tyson has long forecast that the economy will slow to an annual growth rate of 2.5 percent in the late 1990's, once factories reach their highest sustainable level of operation and unemployment falls to a stable level.
Still, today's rate increase provoked criticism on Capitol Hill. "It seems that just as the economy is coming back up for air, the Fed shoves it back down," said two Democratic Senators, Paul Sarbanes of Maryland and James Sasser of Tennessee, in a joint statement. Both are up for re-election in November.
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat whose term does not expire until 1998, criticized the Federal Reserve and the commercial banks. "It looks like a dose of big-bank greed -- it does not seem to me to be justifiable," Mr. Dorgan said this evening. "The large banks are profiting at the expense of the American consumer."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Prime Rate Rises, Too" shows the increases and decreases of the prime rate from '80-'94.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (52%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (52%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; MORTGAGES; BANKS AND BANKING ; PRICES INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



434 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
BOSNIAN TOWN SURROUNDED
The Bosnian town of Gorazde was surrounded by Serbian forces after Bosnian Government defenses collapsed, and the top United Nations general warned of a humanitarian catastrophe. A1
 
MILITARY LOSS IN BOSNIA
Military analysis: Western military commanders lost their gamble with limited air strikes near the Bosnian town of Gorazde when the Serbian nationalists called their bluff. A1
 
LITTLE SAFETY IN SAFE AREAS
News analysis: The future of United Nations operations in Bosnia is under debate as it appears clear that it failed to protect the residents of Gorazde, which it had declared a "safe area," from the Serbs. A10
 
American advisers will seek broader air power in Bosnia. A10
 
CITIBANK'S SWEET DEAL
Citibank's Argentine unit devised and carried out a plan some in Buenos Aires call "the deal of the century." It helped raise profits -- and made some Citibank friends and employees quite rich. A1
 
SOUTH AFRICA PACT IS NEAR
South Africa moved closer to an agreement that would prevent violence at the nation's first all-race elections as the Zulu leader made a last minute appeal to be included in the elections. A3
 
PRESSURE ON ISRAELI ARMY
Israeli soldiers are being pressed by the right to defy any order to remove settlers from the occupied territories, deepening the religious and political schisms in Israel. A8
 
BOOK CALLS ATOM SCIENTISTS SPIES
A new book alleges that scientists who were key figures in developing the atomic bomb acted as spies to give the information to Russia. Specialists in the history of atomic science dismissed the account. A5
 
Ethnic massacres have spread throughout Rwanda. A3
 
A Washington rift over ties with Macedonia. A6
 
An American diplomat has stirred a tempest in Germany. A6
 
China admitted that a group of tourists were slain. A9
 
In Japan, the front-runner for Prime Minister gained ground. A9
 
Deutsche Bank was criticized in the case of a fugitive developer. D7
 
Tulum Journal: Mexico's battle over the past, and its profits. A4
 
National A12-17, A20
 
FED RAISES RATES -- AGAIN
For the third time in three months, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates. The move prompted criticism by Democrats, a fall in stock and bond prices and a rise in rates big banks charge. A1
 
SENATORS TO CONTEST ADMIRAL
Six of the seven women in the Senate said they would oppose allowing the Navy's top admiral to retire with a four-star retirement rank because of his role in the Tailhook sexual harassment scandal. A1
 
BENEFITS OF HEALTH DEBATE
Some politicians' campaign treasuries have already benefited from the health care debate, most notably that of Representative Jim Cooper, the Tennessee Democrat who has proposed an alternative to the Clinton health plan. A1
 
The President promoted health care change in Milwaukee. A14
 
NIXON SUFFERS STROKE
Former President Richard M. Nixon, 81, suffered a stroke at his New Jersey home yesterday and was in stable condition at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. A12
 
PUSHING SOCIAL SECURITY CHANGES
Representative Dan Rostenkowski proposed shoring up the finances of Social Security by increasing the retirement age, trimming benefits for new retirees and raising payroll taxes. A12
 
ICEBERGS IN THE STREET
Spring arrived with a vengeance over the weekend in a northern Maine town as an icejam clogging a river burst, sending huge chunks of blue ice barreling into the streets on a wave of frigid waters. A12
 
DANGER IN THE WELL?
The Environmental Protection Agency advised people who drink from private wells to switch to bottled water and to test for possible lead contamination from pumps installed in the last year. A13
 
COURT TO TAKE UP GUN CONTROL
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether Congress has the constitutional authority to ban guns near school buildings in a case with implications for Federal gun control measures. A15
 
Georgia will test simplifying how the poor apply for aid. A16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
SCHOOLS FOR PROFIT
Beset by problems, the Hartford public school system is considering a radical step: turning over management of its schools to a private, for-profit company. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
How "Four Weddings and a Funeral" became a hit. C15
 
Theater: "Beauty and the Beast." C15
 
Music: Bergonzi's farewell. C15
 
New Schubertiade at the Y. C16
 
The Concordia Orchestra. C17
 
Seaweed at CBGB. C17
 
"Baseball Blues." C18
 
Dance: Pennsylvania Ballet. C20
 
Books: Garry Wills on leadership. C19
 
Television: World War II, in detail. C20
 
Science C1-14
 
How a spider tailors a web to lure its prey. C1
 
After the S.S.C., physics finds that small is beautiful. C1
 
Scientist at Work: Dr. Allen J. Frances, an expert psychiatrist. C1
 
Fashion B7
 
Hemlines on unfamiliar territory: The knee.
 
Sports B9-15
 
Basketball: Knicks-Hawks game is a key one. B9
 
Columns: Berkow on Jordan's quest. B9
 
Rangers win, 6-0, again. B9
 
Marathon: Kenyan wins Boston in record time. B9
 
Obituaries B8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Failure at Gorazde.
 
Cracking down on corrupt cops.
 
Mitchell enters the health fray.
 
Ukraine's unsettling vote.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Excuses for a shame.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Domestic tran quillity.
 
Natasha Mostert: Trading places in South Africa?
 
Chronicle B4
 
Chess C14
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); BONDS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); POLITICS (71%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); SCANDALS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: JIM COOPER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



435 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: HARTFORD SEEKING A COMPANY TO RUN ITS PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
Undermined by deep fiscal problems and poor academic achievement, the Hartford public school system is seriously considering a radical step: turning over management of all its schools, troubles and all, to a private, for-profit company.
The agreement would be the boldest step yet in a burgeoning movement to privatize elements of American public education. The company, Education Alternatives, based in Minneapolis, is negotiating a contract to manage the district's 32 schools, which serve about 25,000 students. If approved, the contract would begin this fall and could last five years. The company would manage a budget of about $214 million a year and its management fee is likely to be 3 to 5 percent a year. 
 Education Alternatives, a publicly traded company founded three years ago, runs 13 individual public schools elsewhere. It has long wanted to manage an entire school system, hoping to try an array of educational strategies that it says are difficult to enact piecemeal. It has promised school officials here to spend $20 million of its own money to improve buildings and curriculums and to introduce computers and other up-to-date technology.
Officials of the nine-member school board say six members support the plan and three are opposed or undecided. The company is to present its proposal April 19 to the board, which is expected to act on it within two weeks.
"We need major surgery," said Thelma Dickerson, vice chairman of the school board and a supporter of privatization. "We've constantly put on Band-Aids. After so many, they keep erupting and you have a serious problem. We need help."
Under any plan, the company would receive the same amount currently spent by the district: about $8,450 per student, a figure that includes not only money within the district budget but also state and Federal spending for programs like special education. That per-pupil figure exceeds both the state and national averages. From that, the company would have to pay for salaries and pensions, books, maintenance and all school services. The company says it can make money from this because of economies of scale, and do so while improving academic performance.
The company manages one school in Dade County, Fla., and a dozen more in the Baltimore City Public Schools. It is talking to the San Diego Unified School District about taking over some of its most troubled schools. School officials say it is too early to tell whether academic performance has improved in either the Dade County or Baltimore schools, which were taken over less than two years ago.
As negotiations between the company and the school continue, some parents say they see hope in the promise of sweeping change in the Hartford school district, which serves many poor Hispanic and black children in an area surrounded by affluent, largely white suburbs. This disparity is at the heart of a wrenching lawsuit, filed in state court in 1988, seeking to desegregate the district.
 
Parents and Unions Worry
 But some Hispanic parents, whose children make up 50 percent of Hartford enrollment, say they are concerned about the company's limited experience in bilingual education.
And the notion of hiring a private manager has met the full fury of the district's 12 unions, which oppose the company's profit motive and question whether Education Alternatives can deliver educational improvements in a school system that critics say entered academic bankruptcy long ago.
"If I had to give my answer today whether to hire Education Alternatives, my answer would be no," said Bill Chaffin, an English teacher at Weaver High School in Hartford. "Given the choice between real student learning and profit, profit will always win. It always does."
The opposition in Hartford reflects the fear of many school officials across the country over the wholesale ceding of school management to business.
"The posture of most urban school superintendents is some limited privatization of outside services is acceptable as long as the expenditure and the account remain under the public aegis," said Michael Casserly, the executive director of the Council of Great City Schools, an association of the nation's largest school systems. "The issue is just how tall the wall to schools should be."
 
Hiring Students
 School board members have told the company that they would reject any contract that includes layoffs of any staff members. This differs from the company's arrangement in Baltimore, where it hired college students as teachers' aides, at $7 an hour, to replace $13-an-hour union members. It also hired nonunion custodians.
Administrators and teachers say they could do their jobs better if given relief from a bureaucracy so inefficient that, in one case, a book order from one teacher during the summer was not delivered until November, three months into the school year.
Supporters of Education Alternatives and school privatization say that Hartford schools, facing a $2 million budget gap this school year, a worsening student dropout problem and internal turmoil from the desegregation lawsuit, must make radical choices now, for its students' sake.
 
The System
Troubles Mount, Resources Shrink
 Every school day, Aida Morales walks her first- and third-grade daughters through the doors of the brown-brick Kinsella Community School in the city's working-class South End. Ms. Morales, 26, said she worries about budget cuts and their effects on bilingual education. But she heard Education Alternatives officials make their pitch at the school recently, with their comments translated into Spanish, and liked what she heard.
"I'm not a business person," she said. "But they are saying everything I want to hear. My main concern is my children's education."
 
A District Adrift
 Like other parents, she said she sensed that the district was adrift. The dropout rate, 13.4 percent last year and rising, is above the national average of 11.4 percent. Hartford's fourth, sixth and eighth graders score at or below minimum state goals in math, reading and writing on statewide tests, with the district ranking at or near the bottom in student achievement.
With tax revenue declining, the school system has been forced to cut its budget, with student-oriented programs typically the first to go. A dropout-prevention program was eliminated. The district bought cheaper basketballs for physical-education classes and cheaper chalk. The chalk is of such a low grade that it does not stick to the blackboard.
"We have become a system concerned that adults have jobs, that adults have the best salaries," said Ms. Dickerson, the vice chairman of the school board, which is elected by the community. "We react by eliminating programs that are good for children. To me, it's sinful."
Of the district's $171.1 million budget this school year, $148.8 million goes to salaries. To save the district $1 million in salaries alone next year, the Hartford teachers' union has agreed to concessions totaling $4 million, and 177 employees are taking early retirement. But officials have told the school system to squeeze even more from its budget.
 
The Company
Unproven Rescuer Sells a 'Slow' Fix
 It is show time for Educational Alternatives, and company officials are eager to tell Hartford parents how the company can rescue their ailing school system.
The company's president, John Golle, stood in front of the 200 parents and teachers in one recent community meeting and tried to win over a curious and skeptical audience.
"It's not a quick fix," he said. "It's a slow process."
It has been a slow process for the company. For the fiscal year ended June 30, it reported its first profit: $1.1 million, with $300,000 of that coming from Baltimore. But all along, it has faced opposition from unions, some education analysts and school administrators and some parents over its efforts to manage public schools for profit.
The American Federation of Teachers, for instance, released a report last month criticizing the company's performance in Baltimore, saying that the test results had fallen for students in the nine original schools the company agreed to manage. A report last year by the company indicated that in the final weeks of the 1992-93 school year, student test scores actually rose.
 
Company Shares Slip
 The negative publicity has hammered at the company's shares, which once traded in the $40-to-$45 range but now languish just above $10.
"We've had our heads handed to us in the marketplace," said Mr. Golle after the community meeting was over. "But we aren't going anywhere."
Mr. Golle, a 50-year-old businessman, founded his own education and training company in the 1970's and bought Education Alternatives from Control Data Corporation, the computer company, in 1986. Control Data had formed the subsidiary in the early 1980's to study a possible role for business in school reform.
He said he and other company officials -- former school superintendents or educators from around the country -- decided 1994 would be the year the company would try to win a contract for an entire district.
 
The Critics
Which Come First, Children or Profits?
 Any management contract in Hartford would be signed only over the opposition of a coalition of 12 unions representing teachers, teacher aides, principals, food-service employees, clerical workers and others.
"Our concern is that a public company does not have a vested interest in the children or their education," said Jeanne Spencer, the president of the teachers union. "The board should be making management decisions and not abrogating their responsibility."
The union two weeks ago distributed to its members a four-page letter outlining the company's history and its experiences in Dade County and Baltimore. The letter found fault with the company's hiring of college-age interns to replace better-paid and more experienced teachers' aides in Baltimore.
 
Trying New Strategies
 The company's plans for overhauling the Hartford system are widely criticized by teachers here, but even so, many new teaching methods being tried in Hartford classrooms are also in the company's educational package.
Indeed, the company's educational strategy includes many widely touted techniques being adopted in growing numbers of classrooms around the country.
Some are familiar: greater individual attention in subjects like math and science, using blocks and other objects to convey basic math concepts to young students and more complicated theories to older students.
The company trains its teachers to adapt their styles to students' needs, devises individual lesson plans for students and conducts conferences with parents. In Dade County and Baltimore, some parents say their children read more and are more enthusiastic about attending school.
Several Hartford schools already have tried educational reform programs, and the school board has told Education Alternatives that it cannot force any school to adopt its curriculum. Company officials have agreed to keep the curriculum optional, but say they expect most schools to adopt it anyway.
If Hartford hires the company, it would spend the first year largely improving schools and schoolyards, physical plants and testing students and retraining teachers. The $20 million in capital improvements would come from investors' holdings in the company.
To calm jitters among teachers and parents who fear that the company has not proved it can raise test scores, company officials have said it takes at least three years under a new curriculum before improvement is evident. "We aren't saying this is the only way," said Mr. Golle, the company's chairman. "We're saying it's just one way."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "AT A GLANCE: Hartford Public Schools" shows breakup of Hartford schools by racial and ethnic breakdown, and the budget. Also shows the dropout rate, spending per student and the average teacher salary. (Sources: Connecticut Department of Education, Hartford Public Schools, U.S. Department ofEducation, Hartford Federation of Teachers) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EAIN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION ALTERNATIVES EDUCATION ALTERNATIVES INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION ALTERNATIVES

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CONTRACTS; PRIVATIZATION PUBLIC SCHOOLS (92%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROVALS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (51%); LITIGATION (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



436 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Bond Prices Post a Sharp Decline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices plunged yesterday, pushing long-term interest rates to the highest level since just before President Clinton's inauguration.
The benchmark 30-year bond fell after the Federal Reserve said it would raise short-term interest rates to moderate the economy's growth and stave off inflation pressures. 
 The falling bond price pushed the yield on the Treasury's main 30-year bond to 7.41 percent, up from 7.28 percent on Friday. It was the highest the yield finished since a week before Clinton's inauguration when it stood at 7.47 percent.
The bond's price fell 114/32 point, or $14.375 for each $1,000 in face value. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, matched the high for the year it hit on April 4. The record low yield is 5.77 percent, set Oct. 15.
The Treasury's one-year bill yield, a benchmark for many adjustable-rate mortgages, rose to 4.87 percent as the discount rose 0.16 point, to 4.65 percent.
The Fed's increase of short-term rates mean speculators and others who had bought bonds with borrowed money would have to pay more to hold the securities. That reality encouraged selling, William Sullivan, director of money-market research at Dean Witter, Discover & Company, said.
The rise in long-term interest rates also shows doubt in the market that the Fed's action will stave off future inflation.
"There's an attitude that what the Fed has done so far in 1994 is not enough to break the economy's momentum," Mr. Sullivan said. "These modest moves are perceived as insufficient medicine."
Meanwhile, many Democrats in Congress complain that the Fed has done too much to stifle inflation without any concrete signs that consumer prices are rising.
The biggest risk faced by long-term bond investors is that their annual interest payments will be eaten up by inflation.
Yesterday's move was the third rate rise by the Fed since Feb. 4. Another short-term interest rate rise is expected after the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-setting board, in mid-May.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, fell 9.73, to 1,221.45.
Yields on three-month Treasury bills rose to 3.77 percent as the discount rose 0.10 percentage point, to 3.69 percent. Six-month yields rose to 4.26 percent as the discount increased 0.13 point, to 4.13 percent.
Yields are the interest bonds pay by maturity, while the discount is the interest at which they are sold.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 9017/32 point, down 28/32 point. The average yield to maturity was 6.44 percent, up from 6.37 percent late Friday.
Following are the results from yesterday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.050	97.872	Discounted Rate	3.76%	4.21%	Coupon Yield	3.85%	4.36%	High Price	99.052	97.887	Discounted Rate	3.75%	4.18%	Coupon Yield	3.84%	4.33%	Low Price	99.047	97.872	Discounted Rate	3.77%	4.21%	Coupon Yield	3.86%	4.36%	Accepted at low price	5%	51%	Total applied for	$48,188,647	$42,157,989	Accepted	$11,834,322	$11,824,165	Noncompetitive	$1,455,410	$1,114,875	

Both issues are dated April 21, 1994. The three-mont bills mature on July 21, 1994, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 20, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Dec. 1993 to April 1994. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MORGAN STANLEY (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (96%); TREASURY SECURITIES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INFLATION (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



437 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Cuts and Tax Rises Urged To Bolster Social Security

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, today proposed shoring up the finances of Social Security by reducing next year's cost-of-living adjustment, increasing the retirement age, trimming benefits for new retirees and raising payroll taxes in the 21st century.
Some of the proposals, standing alone, would provoke a political outcry. But Mr. Rostenkowski said he hoped they would be acceptable as part of a comprehensive plan to preserve Social Security for future generations. 
 Some combination of changes like those proposed by Mr. Rostenkowski has a good chance of passage. Social Security trustees said last week that unless Congress acted the Social Security trust funds would run out of money in 2029, seven years earlier than projected last year. The trustees said that Congress should worry about the problem now, when the solution is relatively painless. Bigger changes would be required in later years if lawmakers defer action, the trustees warned.
In opinion polls, young workers often say that they doubt Social Security will be available to them when they retire. Mr. Rostenkowski said his proposal would restore confidence in Social Security and guarantee the Treasury's ability to pay all promised benefits for at least 75 years. He said he hoped the proposal would stimulate debate on ways to solve the long-range problems of Social Security without drastic cuts in benefits or sharp increases in taxes.
 
Limiting an Increase
 Under Mr. Rostenkowski's proposal, all Social Security beneficiaries, about 42 million people, would receive a smaller cost-of-living adjustment in January 1995. The increase was expected to be 3 percent, but Mr. Rostenkowski's proposal would limit it to 2.5 percent.
As a result, the average monthly Social Security benefit, now $674, would rise to $691 in 1995, rather than $694. In the past, protests by elderly people have blocked proposed cuts in cost-of-living adjustments.
Mr. Rostenkowski is also proposing a tax increase for Social Security beneficiaries who are single and have incomes of $25,000 to $34,000 a year or are married with incomes of $32,000 to $44,000.
Under current law, these people must count up to half of their Social Security benefits as taxable income. Under Mr. Rostenkowski's proposal, up to 85 percent of their benefits could be included as taxable income.
The change would affect 13 percent of Social Security beneficiaries, about 5.5 million people. Single people with incomes of more than $34,000 and married couples with incomes over $44,000 are already subject to this requirement.
 
Cutting Future Benefits
 Mr. Rostenkowski would gradually reduce the generosity of the Social Security benefit formula over a 50-year period beginning in the year 2003. This would trim benefits for workers with average and above-average earnings, but not for those with low earnings.
For a person born in 1990 who earns average wages over a lifetime, benefits would be cut 8 percent. For a high earner, one who pays the maximum taxes, the reduction would be 20 percent if the person was born in 1990 and retires in the middle of the next century. High-earning baby boomers, those who pay the maximum taxes and retire early in the next century would experience reductions of 2 percent to 12 percent.
Mr. Rostenkowski's bill would also increase the age at which workers may retire with full benefits. This "normal retirement age," now 65, will rise gradually under current law, reaching 67 for people born in 1960 or later. Mr. Rostenkowski would speed up the change so it would take effect 11 years earlier, for people born in 1949 or later.
The first of Mr. Rostenkowski's proposed increases in the payroll tax would take effect in 26 years, in 2020, and additional increases would follow.
Under current law, employees and their employers each pay a tax equal to 6.2 percent of a worker's wages up to a maximum level, which is $60,600 this year. The tax rate is not scheduled to go up under current law, though the Social Security trust funds are expected to run out of money in 2029, when people born in 1964 will reach the age of 65.
Mr. Rostenkowski's bill would gradually increase the Social Security tax rate by nearly one-third over a 38-year period beginning in 2020. The tax rate would stay at 6.2 percent through 2019, then climb gradually to 7.35 percent in 2024 and remain at that level for 30 years. The tax rate would rise again in 2055 and in each of the next three years, reaching 8.15 percent in 2058.
The proposal would not affect Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund, which is expected to run out of money in 2001. Many experts say the Government will soon need to increase the Medicare tax, now 1.45 percent each for employee and employer.
Mr. Rostenkowski said the effect of the higher taxes would be more than offset by the growth of wages over the next 75 years. Even after paying the increased payroll taxes and taking account of inflation, he said, workers will still have higher incomes, with greater purchasing power, than they now have.
Under his proposal, a person who earns $32,600 in 2025 would pay a Social Security tax of $2,396, which is $375 more than the person would pay under current law.
Under Mr. Rostenkowski's proposal, all state and local government workers hired after Dec. 31 would have to pay Social Security taxes and participate in the program. Of the 21.5 million people who worked for state or local government some time last year, 5 million were not covered by Social Security, Federal officials say. Such workers may face severe financial hardship when they retire or become disabled.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Dan Rostenkowski yesterday in Chicago after he proposed a measure to insure adequate financing for Social Security. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); AGING (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INCOME TAX (85%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MARRIAGE (60%); 

PERSON: ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR); PEAR, ROBERT DAN ROSTENKOWSKI (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



438 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: At Kidder, Peabody, Where Trading Went Awry

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW YORK, NY

 BODY:
If Kidder, Peabody's allegations against Joseph Jett, its former chief Government bond trader, are accurate, he appears to have taken advantage of a bad accounting system at Kidder to allow him to report profits that did not exist.
The fiasco, which Kidder's parent, the General Electric Company, said would cost it an after-tax charge of $210 million, reflects a system that apparently allowed Mr. Jett to report as "trades" what really amounted to a stated intention to make transactions in the future. 
 Kidder officials, who spoke yesterday on condition they not be named, said the "profits" he reported reflected what amounted to accrued interest that would never be received. Those profits would vanish within months or even days. But by then, they said, he would have reported more such trades, and profits.
Whether, or to what extent, the Kidder account is accurate is hard to evaluate. Mr. Jett, who has an unlisted telephone number, could not be reached yesterday. And Kidder executives, amplifying press releases from them and from General Electric on Sunday night, said they were perplexed by some aspects of the case.
 
Bond Prices Were Down
 They said that it had appeared that Mr. Jett's department had lost $90 million to $100 million in real trades, apparently in the first quarter. But they were not sure how that happened.
"We don't even know if the losses were just bad trading," said a Kidder official. "It appeared to most people that he did not have exposure to the bond market."
In the first quarter, bond prices sank as the Federal Reserve tightened credit, and such losses would be expected if the firm had a large position in bonds. But if it did not have such a position, the losses would be harder to explain. It could have come from any of a number of complicated strategies, like an incorrect bet on the relationship of, say, interest rates on 10-year Government bonds to 30-year bonds, or on the spread between rates on Treasury securities and those issued by Government agencies.
 
Kidder Officials Unsure
 That Kidder officials were unsure, even yesterday, of the nature of the real trading seemed to indicate that the management information systems were inadequate. It appears that Kidder officials focused on the net profit of the department, not on individual types of trades, so the phony trades, asserted by Kidder, managed to obscure the other losses.
In that regard, this is not a case of a trader concealing his bad trades, a practice known as "hiding the tickets" reporting losing trades.
"He hid the effects of the tickets, not the tickets themselves," a Kidder official reported.
The purported phony trades were said to be listed as "forward" trades, in which Kidder supposedly agreed to give a basket of securities, known as "strips," to the Federal Reserve, and receive back from it an equivalent Treasury bond, at a date in the future ranging from a few days to as long as three months.
When the Government sells a Treasury bond, for example the 30-year bond sold last August, paying 6.25 percent and due in August 2023, it promises that for each $1,000 bond it will pay $31.25 each February and August, and then $1,000 in August 2023. Bond dealers can sell off the individual payments to different holders, a process known as stripping.
They can also put the bond back together -- a process known as reconstituting the bond, or simplay as a "recon" -- by accumulating rights to all the remaining payments, and trading those rights to the Fed. Kidder said Mr. Jett asserted he had agreed to make such exchanges in the future.
It is hard to see why such transactions should have been recorded at all, at least not until they were actually done. Essentially such a trade is the equivalent of giving a roll of 40 quarters to a bank and getting back a $10 bill. The bank will do that trade any time you want, and the profit, if there is one, could come only from buying quarters at a discount, which is not easy to do.
 
On Reconstituting Bonds
 Similarly, the Fed lets bond dealers strip or reconstitute bonds whenever they wish. They can tell the Fed they plan to do so at a particular date, but there is no more penalty for not doing so than there would be from a bank whose customer brought in fewer quarters than expected. "This was not a real forward trade," a Kidder official said.
The "strips," as the individual payments of principal and interest are called, will normally rise in value over time, as the actual payment grows closer. So the "forward" price for such a coupon payment -- the price that you would have to agree to pay for it to get it a few days or a few months from now -- will be a bit higher than current prices.
Kidder would record that it had agreed to sell the set of strips to the Fed for the forward prices, and take a profit because that figure was higher than the current market price for the strips. At the same time, it would record that it had agreed to "buy" the reconstituted bond at its forward price for it. There would be a small, equally phony "loss" recorded on the bond part of the trade, but the net of the two was a reported profit. In fact, nothing had happened at all.
That reported profit would vanish as the actual date scheduled for the supposed trade approached, and Kidder would then, it appears, create new "profits" by putting on more such trades in the future.
 
A Profit Would Vanish
 How small was the profit? Kidder officials told of one recorded forward trade, for an $8 million principal payment, that provided a "profit" of $2,215. That profit was to vanish over six days. To get the kind of phony profits Kidder says Mr. Jett accumulated, it would be necessary to report such trades for many billions of dollars. It is not clear why Kidder failed to pick up such huge stated positions much earlier than it did.
It is sometimes possible to make small profits buying up the strip payments and reconstituting the bonds, just as it is sometimes possible to make money doing the opposite and stripping the bonds. That depends on the relative demand for bonds and for the strips, which are sold to customers who will need money at a specific time, like retirement.
Effectively, however, if Kidder's accusations are true, Mr. Jett made it appear that he had made such profits, without having done so.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Conjuring Phantom Profits: A Scenario"
Here is how Joseph Jett, who was dismissed as chief of Kidder Peabody's Government bond trading department, was said to be using quirks of the firm's accounting systems to take credit for profits that existed only on paper..
 
STRIPPED AND RECONSTITUTED BONDS
 
A Treasury bond is promised by the Treasury to make two kinds of payments: interest twice a year before the bond matures and the principal (the face value of the bond) upon maturiry.
 
When the Treasury issues the bond it is all in one piece, but the two components are often traded separately later: as a "strip" of coupons and the principal payment. The pieces can also be put back together, in a move called a recon.
 
Sometimes the bond trade for slightly more in pieces than together, or vice versa; brokers routinely strip or reconstitute bonds to make arbitrage profits out of the small price difference.
 
FORWARD TRADES AND EPHEMERAL PROFITS
 
A strip's principal payment component trades at a discount to face value that gradually shrinks in a predictable way as maturity approaches. Kidder, Peabody's accounting system allows for this when assessing the value of forward trades.
 
When a broker records a forward sale - a deal struck today to sell a strip for a set price on a date in the future - the system notes that the forward price is higher than today's spot price, and books the difference as a profit. That profit is reduced each day as the spot price rises closer to the forward price, disappearing entirely the day the deal is completed.
 
If the deal were reversed and the broker was buying rather than selling, this temporary paper profit would be a paper loss instead.
 
OFFSETS THAT DIDN'T OFFSET
 
Apparently, Kidder's accounting system used different formulas to calculate the temporary gain or loss for different kinds of transactions.
 
Mr. Jett is said to have booked forward recon transactions with the Federal Reserve that offset each other exactly, leaving his net position in the market neutral and risk-free. The "trades" with the Fed were accounting fictions, since no money changes hands. But the complexities of the Kidder accounting system had the effect of crediting him with temporary paper profits on some of the trades that were larger than the paper losses on the offsetting trades. That made it appear the Mr. Jett was making profits for the firm without running any risk.
 
The paper profits on ant one set of forward trades soon diminished to zero, but by then Mr. Jett booked yet more phantom profits on new trades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: JETT, JOSEPH; NORRIS, FLOYD JOSEPH JETT (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



439 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Nationsbank Net Falls; Chase Has a Big Rise

BYLINE: By JOSHUA MILLS 

 BODY:
Nationsbank said yesterday that its net income for the first quarter fell 13 percent, largely because of an accounting change affecting the first quarter of 1993, while Chase Manhattan Bank said its earnings more than doubled in the first quarter, helped by a continued evaporation of its problem real estate and strong trading results.
The results were another sign that the first quarter, with rising interest rates and volatile bond markets, were not as bad for banks as many people had expected. 
 Excluding the accounting charge last year, Nationsbank's net income in the first quarter of 1993 would have been $281 million, leading to a 48 percent increase in the most recent quarter. Nationsbank, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., is the third-largest bank in the United States, providing retail banking in nine states. It said its results benefited from the purchase last year of MNC Financial Inc., a Baltimore-based banking company; Chicago Research and Trading Ltd., a firm specializing in currency and bond trading, and Corpus Christi National Bank.
 
 
Gain in Interest Income
 Interest income rose 19 percent, to $1.3 billion, while noninterest revenue, which includes the trading by Chicago Research and Trading, climbed 41 percent, to $680 million.
The impact of the acquisitions was also apparent in Nationsbank's net loans and leases, which rose 25 percent, to $91.6 billion; total assets, up 36 percent to $165.1 billion, and the bank's full-time payroll, which increased 12 percent, to 58,122 people.
Nationsbank said it had lowered its provision for bad loans to $100 million, from $120 million in the first quarter of 1993.
Shares of Nationsbank rose 12.5 cents, to $52.25.
Chase Manhattan, the nation's sixth-largest banking company, said its profit for the first quarter was $364 million, or $1.80 a share, compared with $153 million, or 74 cents a share, a year earlier. That was well beyond analysts' expectations; the consensus was that Chase would have earnings of $1.14 a share.
Chase shares closed at $34.375, up 62.5 cents, on a day when the Dow Jones industrial average fell 41 points.
 
 
Provision for Bad Loans
 Chase said its provision in the first quarter for bad loans was $160 million, less than half the $360 million it set aside a year ago.
The bank reported that noninterest revenue rose 30 percent, to $853 million, largely because fees and commissions rose 22 percent, to $446 million.
Total trading revenue, which includes foreign-exchange income and trading account income, rose 2 percent, to $179 million from $175 million. Foreign-exchange revenue dropped to $85 million from $103 million, but trading account revenue rose to $94 million from $72 million, and the bank said its income from investment securities gains rose to $79 million, from $6 million a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Nationsbank Corp. (NB:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	417,000,000	b481,000,000	-13	Per shr.	1.52	1.89	 	
 
b-After a benefit of $200 million, or 79 cents per share, from the cumulative effect of change in accounting for income taxes.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$52.25
Up 12.5
 
"Chase Manhattan Corp. (CMB:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	364,000,000	b153,000,000	+138	Per shr.	1.80	.74	 	Sh. out.	184,600,000	157,600,000	 	
 
b-After a benefit of $500 million, or $3.17 per share, from the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, reflecting the adoption of SFAS 109.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$34.375
Up 62.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NATIONSBANK; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK MNC FINANCIAL INC (69%); CHICAGO RESEARCH & TRADING GROUP LTD (56%); CORPUS CHRISTI NATIONAL BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONSBANK; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: MILLS, JOSHUA

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



440 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Pep Boys (Manny, Moe and Jack) see their stock climb.

BYLINE: By Leslie Wayne 

 BODY:
THE Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe and Jack -- have a lot to be smiling about these days. These cigar-chomping characters, who look like they populate a Dick Tracy cartoon, are the advertising symbols of the Philadelphia-based auto parts retailer that's been bucking the downward push of the market. Just this month, as the market was tumbling by 30 to 50 points a day, Pep Boys shares were hitting new highs.
What's got the Pep Boys smiling? The stock has risen by nearly 9 percent since the mid-March, while the stock market in general has fallen by more than 10 percent. Yesterday, Pep Boys closed at 29 3/8, off 1/8. What's behind this rise is a company whose fundamentals are, at last, falling into place. In fact, analysts say Pep Boys' shares, even at these levels, still have upward potential. 
 "Never before have the fundamentals been so strong at Pep Boys," said William Julian, an analyst at the Mabon Securities Corporation. "The company is still a buy: There's more room for upside support and there's plenty of protection against downside risk. This is a stock that's got plenty of room to go north."
Pep Boys is a leading national chain of auto parts and servicing stores. With 371 stores in 25 states, and more opening each month, Pep Boys competes in a highly fragmented market against mom-and-pop auto parts distributors, smaller chains, auto dealerships and independent garages. Since the late 1980's, when new management was put into place, Pep Boys has been streamlining and improving its operations. Now that effort is paying off.
Fourth-quarter 1993 earnings of 25 cents a share exceeded most analysts' expectations and indications are that the 1994 first quarter will be even stronger. Store sales, which had flattened during the last recession, are now growing by about 7 percent a year. Gross margins have been rising as the company's strategy of pushing "hard" auto parts -- things that go under the hood as opposed to car accessories -- is paying off. "Hard" parts have high profit margins.
Tire sales, also a high-margin business, have picked up as the economy improves. New stores in new areas, like New England and Chicago, have opened and been immediately successful. In addition, Pep Boys' car servicing department is giving auto dealerships and independent garages stiff competition with prices 20 to 50 percent lower. And the decision by Sears, Roebuck to cut back on car servicing has left a clear path for Pep Boys.
"In the past few years, Pep Boys management team has reinvigorated its merchandise, improved its systems and expanded aggressively," said Peter Caruso, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "In the auto parts after-market, they are a killer. I'm always pounding the table on this stock. It's got a great growth story and not a lot of competitive challenges."
Pep Boys currently trades at about 29 times current earnings of $1.06 a share. Analysts generally say it will earn $1.30 in 1994 and $1.60 in 1995. There is consensus among analysts that the stock will rise -- barring a complete market tumble. The only question is by how much. Mr. Caruso, for instance, sees the stock going to $37 a share in a year, Wertheim Schroder's John Casesa predicts $34 and Mr. Julian sees Pep Boys at $40 a share.
"The economy has improved and people have stopped deferring car repairs," said Ginnanne G. Long, an analyst at Stephens Inc. "They've got a fantastic format for their stores with an attractive layout and they are beginning to advertise nationally. I see no reason to back off of this stock, even if the market gets iffy."
Of course, as with any rising stock, the time to have bought was yesterday. "Six months ago, the stock was cheap when it was at $20 to $22 a share," said Barry Bryant, an analyst at Ladenburg, Thalmann. "These shares are no longer dramatically underrated. But everything is turning in their favor."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PBY (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (92%); NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (92%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PEP BOYS PEP BOYS - MANNY MOE & JACK (92%); MABON SECURITIES CORP (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEP BOYS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES & PARTS WHOLESALERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



441 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Down on Wide Front As Stocks and Bonds Drop

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against major currencies yesterday after an increase in American interest rates sent stock and bond markets into a tailspin.
Traders bought dollars in the morning after the Federal Reserve said it was raising interest rates on overnight bank loans for the third time this year. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated deposits more attractive. 
 The Fed signaled that it had lifted its target for the Federal funds rate to 3.75 percent from 3.50 percent. But the dollar gave up its gains when stocks and bonds in the United States tumbled, traders said.
Concern about weak American markets has kept the dollar from gaining this year, even though rates are rising.
"Declining stocks and bonds really hurt the dollar today," said Karl Halligan, a trader at ING Capital Markets. "Higher rates will help the dollar in the future" but won't do any good until investors are more willing to buy American securities.
 
Third Increase of Year
 The dollar was quoted at 1.7075 marks late yesterday, down from 1.7137 Friday. It fell to 103.30 yen, from 103.45 on Friday.
"Today's move came sooner than many people expected," said Hunt Taylor, managing director of the Reynwood Trading Corporation, a Short Hills, N.J., currency-trading fund with $100 million under management. "We like the look of the dollar."
The Fed had raised interest rates twice this year, pushing the Federal funds rate to 3.50 percent from 3 percent. This year's increases are the first in five years. The Fed raised rates to control the inflation that often accompanies economic expansion.
Gold prices fell in trading in New York after rising overseas. The gold contract for June delivery fell 90 cents, to $378.50 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
Traders pushed gold prices down as higher rates make borrowing to buy the metal more expensive, and gold becomes less attractive than interest-bearing investments such as bank deposits.
"Gold does not like higher interest rates," said Daniel Weissman, head precious metals trader with MTB Bank in New York. Traders have little conviction which direction prices are moving, he said, and gold will probably trade between $375 and $385 an ounce for the foreseeable future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MTB BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CURRENCIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



442 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: State Workers Strike in Hawaii

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, April 18

 BODY:
More than 13,000 state and county workers went on strike today, delaying the processing of unemployment claims and closing libraries.
Picket lines went up around the state this morning as the Hawaii Government Employees Association began its strike. The state's tourism industry was not expected to be affected, officials said, because all employees vital to airport operations were declared essential workers and forbidden to strike. But people flying to the mainland were advised to be at the airport as much as two hours early. 
 Others deemed essential were police dispatchers, lifeguards, security guards, school health aides and hospital X-ray technicians.
The union is seeking a minimum 8 percent pay raise over two years. The state and its four counties have offered a 4 percent increase. Negotiations ended early Monday, and no new talks are scheduled.
"We have told the membership the success of the strike depends on solidarity, but they should be prepared for a long strike," said the union's director, Russell Okata, as he joined the picket line outside the Honolulu Municipal Building. The strike was the first in the 60-year history of the union.
Gov. John Waihee 3d, a Democrat, said he regretted the walkout. "There are rarely winners in any strike," he said.
The strike closed public libraries and three public golf courses on Oahu and curtailed many services. The state stopped issuing licenses and permits and said the processing of unemployment compensation claims would be delayed.
Public schools remained open, and police officers and firefighters were not striking, after unions representing those workers accepted the 4 percent offer. But 6,700 other workers, many of them in nonteaching positions at the University of Hawaii, were expected to join the strike on Friday, when they will have met the requirement of giving 10 days notice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (94%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES STRIKES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); PORT STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); LIBRARIES (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); TOURISM (57%); 

PERSON: JOHN DAVID WAIHEE III (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



443 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Slaying in St. Thomas Stains Image of an 'American Paradise'

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE AMALIE, V.I., April 16

 BODY:
According to the license plates on the cars and buses that haul tourists around this bustling port, the Virgin Islands are still an "American Paradise." But a surge in violent crime over the last year, including the slaying of a San Diego swimming instructor this week, has put that image in jeopardy.
Cruise ships are warning visitors to be cautious, the Navy has canceled port calls here on St. Thomas, and territory officials are promising drastic steps to combat what they call a full-fledged, mainland-style "crime crisis." 
 In the latest incident, which quickly became a symbol of that crisis, Murray Callan, 69, who became known around the world for developing a system to teach infants to swim, was shot to death on April 10 when he went out to rent a movie video here. Mr. Callan and two friends were walking late at night on Long Bay Road, a main thoroughfare that is the only link between downtown and an area where cruise ships daily disgorge thousands of passengers, when two armed men demanded their money but then fired a single shot and fled before the visitors could comply.
Late last month, a 26-year-old police officer, Steven Hodge, was shot to death by four assailants outside his parents' home. So far this year, 11 people have been killed in this Caribbean island territory of 110,000 people, putting the Virgin Islands on a pace to break the record of 27 homicides set in 1989.
 
Plea for Federal Help
 The spate of attacks has shaken the tourist industry more than any incident since the "Fountain Valley Massacre" on St. Croix in 1972, when eight people, including four tourists, were slain while playing golf. Two-thirds of the territory's income comes from the visitors who seek out the islands' white sands, colonial-era charm and duty-free shopping, all to the rhythms of reggae and calypso.
In an April 13 letter to Attorney General Janet Reno, Ron de Lugo, the Virgin Islands' nonvoting delegate to Congress, asked the Justice Department to help "combat the escalation of violent crime in my district." Citing the murder rate, Mr. de Lugo warned Washington that "the resources of our local law-enforcement officials cannot cope with this situation, and the community is increasingly apprehensive."
Government officials acknowledge the seriousness of such concerns but say that the Virgin Islands are still safe for tourists. They also assert that new security measures, including more police and a virtual ban on new handgun sales, should deter criminals.
"We intend to fix the situation so this never happens again," said Eric Dawson, who as Commissioner of Economic Development oversees tourism. "This is a situation we cannot tolerate and that we know we can control. We have to be as hard as the law will permit."
 
T.V.'s Influence
 Of the nearly two million people who visited the United States Virgin Islands last year, 244, or about one hundredth of one percent, were reported to have been victims of crime, the government says. Of them, two tourists were murdered, one was raped, 73 were robbed, 66 were victims of burglaries and 86 were victims of grand larceny.
Government officials attribute most of the increase in violence to an influx of guns and drugs, both difficult to control in a string of islands halfway between the United States mainland and South America. With the growth of tourism and improvements in communication, traditional values are also giving way to the more materialistic standards of the continental United States, especially among young people.
"The influence of the mainland here is very prevalent," Mr. Dawson said. "You can get 40 to 50 cable channels, and all the violence and antisocial things on television are beamed into the Virgin Islands. Young people in particular like to emulate other young people." They do that, he said, by drifting into gangs, imitating the tough talk and look of rap stars and trying to get rich quick.
The killing of Mr. Callan came just four months after an Italian visitor to St. Croix was shot to death in a robbery attempt in downtown Christiansted. Here in the territorial capital late last month, a tourist from Bonn was grazed by a bullet as he was riding in an open tour bus.
 
Attack on Sailors
 Last October, the United States Navy canceled all port calls to this island, citing what it described as "a disproportionate number of violent crimes against U.S. sailors in St. Thomas compared with other ports routinely visited by Atlantic Fleet ships." A statement issued by the Atlantic Fleet from its headquarters in Norfolk, Va., said "the Navy may resume port visits on a limited basis initially," but only if "security conditions improve."
Ted Brown, a spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet, said that in 19 port calls in St. Thomas in the first 10 months of 1993, there had been 12 violent crimes against sailors, including robberies, assaults and one murder. That compared with two crimes in 15 port calls in St. Croix and one violent crime in 40 visits to Naples in the same period.
In the worst attack on Navy visitors here, three sailors waiting to use a public telephone last June were beaten with bats and two of them shot in what was described as an attempted robbery. One sailor, Lieut. Robert D. Bartlett of the U.S.S. Yorktown, eventually died of his injuries.
Arguing that most tourists were perfectly safe, government officials said that some of the attacks appeared to have been a result of American sailors' trying to buy cocaine and marijuana in unsavory areas. Foreign navies, the officials noted, have had far fewer problems when coming to call.
 
No Warnings at Hotel
 Most of the big commercial cruise lines, which bring more than 1.2 million visitors annually to the Virgin Islands, make brief stops to this mountain-fringed port; passengers debark for shopping excursions and are back on board by sunset. But they have felt it necessary to urge their passengers to stick to escorted shore tours.
"We are aware of the recent events in St. Thomas, and we are, in our port lecture, apprising our passengers of the situation," said Jennifer L. Schott, director of public relations for Costa cruise lines. "For those passengers choosing to go off on their own, we provide all the information as to what has happened and encourage them to take cabs instead of walking, and to stay in heavily populated areas."
But tourists arriving by air, who numbered 730,000 last year, said there was no systematic effort to provide them with such advice. Greg and Donna Ryan, residents of Rego Park, Queens, who flew here this week for their honeymoon, said their travel agent had actually denied to them that a Navy warning was in effect. Nor, they said, did their hotel advise them to take any safety precautions.
"Some of the areas here are a little desolate at night, so we have been a little more fearful than we normally are when we travel," Mrs. Ryan said.
 
Banning Some Gun Sales
 In a burst of activity intended to reassure local residents as well as visitors like the Ryans, the territorial Legislature this week passed a measure that would increase the size of the territory's police force, now limited to 450 officers, by about 15 percent. The lawmakers also established a separate force to police certain housing projects and strengthened penalties for juvenile offenders and for illegal gun possession. The government is also preparing a safety pamphlet for distribution to arriving tourists.
In addition, Police Commissioner Anthon L. Christian used his authority this week to declare that residents of the Virgin Islands could no longer legally buy handguns for home protection. Though people who already have permits will be allowed to keep their weapons at home, the police will no longer issue gun registration licenses for new handguns unless they are bought for protection at a business. Less concealable weapons like rifles can still be legally bought for keeping at home.
"We are not trying to disarm law-abiding citizens," Mr. Christian said in an interview here. "But most incidents of violence in this territory involve handguns, and a look at our statistics shows that over 90 guns are stolen each year when criminals break into innocent people's homes."
Officials of the territorial government said there were limits to what they could do by themselves. They complained that their requests to Washington for more customs, immigration, Federal Bureau of Investigation and drug-enforcement officers have gone unheeded at a time of budget cuts.
"Because this is a U.S. territory, we must follow U.S. laws," Mr. Dawson said. Sometimes guns are smuggled in because the territory does not require all people who enter to go through the customs checkpoints that exist in foreign areas of the Caribbean, including the British Virgin Islands just east of here. "After dark," he added, "when the customs people go home, this is effectively an open port, and any kind of guns and drugs can come in."
The government's actions, however, come too late to satisfy Glenn Callan, a San Diego schoolteacher who came here this week to claim his father's body and investigate his slaying. "They've known for a long time they had a bad situation along Long Bay Road, and they've done nothing to correct it," he said. "There has to be more accountability in order that what happened to my father not happen again."

GRAPHIC: Map of St. Thomas showing location of Charlotte Amalie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE AMALIE, VIRGIN ISLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: FOUNTAIN VALLEY INSTRUMENTS (54%); ST CROIX VINEYARDS (53%); US NAVY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST THOMAS (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHARLOTTE AMALIE, VIRGIN ISLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); MURDER (77%); SWIMMING (77%); SPORTS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); NAVIES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CALLAN, MURRAY MURRAY CALLAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



444 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Lumber Falls on Concerns Over Mortgage Rate Rises

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Lumber prices fell their daily limit yesterday amid concern that the Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates for the third time since Feb. 4 may reduce demand for housing.
"People are worried about mortgage rates," said Bill O'Neill, chief futures strategist at Merrill Lynch, of the drop in lumber prices. "Rates are steadily increasing, up about 1 1/4 percent or more from their lows. That's a healthy amount. It could dissuade some people who might have gone into buying homes." 
 Lumber for May delivery, the most active contract, fell $10, to $334 for each 1,000 board feet on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
On other commodity markets, cattle fell to a six-month low amid abundant supply. Oil was little changed.
Traders said the slide in lumber prices may end soon. Lumber plunged 26 percent since mid-February as interest rates rose.
 
Fed Raises Rate
 Yesterday the Fed raised the rate banks charge one another on overnight loans. The move is intended to ward off inflation that often accompanies an expanding economy. Rates on Treasury bills and notes, the benchmarks for mortgage rates, rose as much as 21 basis points as the Fed moved.
To be sure, the rise in rates could increase demand for lumber in coming weeks as buyers rush to lock in mortgage rates before they rise, prompting more building, traders said.
"People who have been postponing and step up to the plate" could create more demand for lumber, said Bud Merrill, an analyst with Smith Barney Shearson in Eugene, Ore. Housing demand over all should be strong this year, he said, as the economy recovers.
"I think housing starts are going to continue to look decent," Mr. Merrill said. "People have held back and held back because of weather and concerns about other things," such as rates, and the threat of rising rates will bring out buyers, he said.
Cattle futures slid to a six-month low amid near-record supplies and lackluster wholesale demand, traders said. Live cattle for June delivery fell 1 cent, to 72.175 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. May feeder cattle dropped 0.60 cent, to $79.875.
An estimated 123,000 head of cattle were slaughtered today, up almost 7 percent from a year earlier, traders said, leading meatpackers to lower their bids for cattle.
The Department of Agriculture will release its monthly cattle-on-feed report on Friday. Traders expect it to show the number of cattle being raised for slaughter, placed in feed lots and sold for slaughter are all about 3 percent to 4 percent higher than a year ago.
Crude oil was little changed on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); EUGENE, OR, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); EUGENE, OR, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; CREDIT; MORTGAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); FUTURES (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (88%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%); 

PERSON: BUD MERRILL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



445 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Review/Dance;
The Pennsylvania Ballet Looks Back on 30 Years

BYLINE: By JACK ANDERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 17

 BODY:
The Pennsylvania Ballet has faced various economic and directorial crises since Barbara Weisberger founded it 30 years ago. But it remains alive and kicking.
On Sunday afternoon at the Academy of Music here, the Philadelphia-based troupe gave itself a well-deserved birthday present with "Directors' Retrospective," a program devoted to works by Christopher d'Amboise, who became the company's artistic director in 1990, and by two previous directors who are also choreographers: Robert Weiss, artistic director from 1982 to 1990, and Richard Tanner, associate artistic director from 1985 to 1990. 
 The occasion was an opportunity to renew acquaintance with this group, which in the 1960's and 70's appeared regularly in New York but has not had a New York engagement since 1985. The company's dancing at the academy was neat and lucid. Occasionally it seemed that clarity of movement had been achieved at the expense of passion. Nevertheless, the members of the ensemble, as well as the soloists, were good-looking and technically strong.
Two of the matinee's four ballets were unfamiliar to New Yorkers. Both were by Mr. d'Amboise, a former member of the New York City Ballet and the son of Jacques d'Amboise, a former principal dancer of that company.
The more imaginative of these pieces was "Franklin Court," which dates from 1990. It honors one of Philadelphia's most famous citizens, Benjamin Franklin, yet is in no way a biographical sketch. So, too, although the accompaniment is a medley of compositions by Bach, the choreography never imitates 18th-century dance forms. Rather, Mr. d'Amboise pays tribute to Franklin's ingenuity. The contrapuntal opening and closing movements for large ensembles convey a sense of 18th-century pomp. Other sections celebrate Franklin's talents as a scientist and inventor.
Two duets reflect his fascination with electricity. In the first, Dede Barfield entered alone, performed a solo and left, only to be replaced by William DeGregory, who also danced a solo and left. Eventually, both dancers entered and drew near to each other, as if magnetized. But they never touched. Later, in their second pas de deux, they did, and it generated emotional electricity, signaling the beginning of a tender adagio.
Some group scenes were inspired by Franklin's inventions. In a section called "Bifocals," two couples -- Patricia Tomlinson and Jeffrey Gribler and Corinne Neenan and Matthew Neenan (who are sister and brother) -- were placed in different parts of the stage. When the movements of one couple broadened, the other couple's movements dwindled in scale, as if being seen through two different lenses. The equally clever "Swim Fins" featured Roseanne Germer, who kept plunging her way through a sea of men, making swimming gestures as she did so.
Mr. d'Amboise's "Da Mummy, Nyet Mummy," which received its premiere last year, was a ballet of mysterious adventures to an electronic arrangement of Shostakovich's Suite for Two Pianos, Op. 6. Mark Stanley's setting resembled a catacombs, and it was ruled by three women (Jennita Russo, Anne White and Leslie Carothers), who wore identical black wigs. Timour Bourtasenkov, Mr. Gribler and Mr. de Gregory portrayed men enamored of them and, from time to time, four other figures slipped in and out of the shadows like phantoms.
The women were sometimes icy, sometimes ethereal and sometimes alluring. Mr. d'Amboise devised effective sequences in which the women proved elusive, and visually striking groupings in which clusters of people raised individuals in exaltation. But he was unable to sustain a sense of wonderment throughout the ballet.
The contributions by Mr. Weiss and Mr. Tanner have previously been presented in New York. Mr. Weiss's "Awakening," a lyrical pas de deux to music by Craig Steven Shuler, was first performed by American Ballet Theater in 1975. In the Philadelphia company's staging, Ms. Germer looked delicate as she skimmed across the stage, and Alexei Borovik combined precision with impetuosity.
Mr. Tanner created "Sonatas and Interludes" for the Eglevsky Ballet in 1982 and it is now in the repertory of the New York City Ballet. Some interpretations of this pas de deux suggest that there is an implicit tension between the man and the woman. But at the Academy, Dalia Hay and David Krensing moved with total serenity while Martha Koeneman played John Cage's piano score and the dancers' bodies formed constantly changing geometrical shapes in space.
Richard Rosenberg conducted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne White and Timour Bourtasenkov of the Pennsylvania Ballet in Christopher d'Amboise's ballet "Da Mummy, Nyet Mummy." (Paul Kolnik)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PENNSYLVANIA BALLET NEW YORK CITY BALLET (86%); FRANKLIN COURT (75%); PENNSYLVANIA BALLET (69%); PHILADELPHIA CO (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNSYLVANIA BALLET

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; REVIEWS BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, JACK JACQUES D'AMBOISE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



446 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Salary Cap Is Misguided Medicine

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
Considering some of the comments emanating from major league club owners, it seems that the salary cap they want the players to accept would cure not only their economic problems but also the problems of health care, secondary smoke and the succession to the British throne.
Bill Giles, the verbose owner of the Philadelphia Phillies, was the latest to register his views. Speaking on a sports business panel last week, Giles said, among other things, that if the owners don't get a salary cap in the current but stagnant labor negotiations, "a lot of teams" will have to move. He predicted that these teams, which could number six or seven, would include the San Diego Padres, the Montreal Expos and the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
 Giles's view raises two questions: Should the players care so much about the location of teams that they would submit to the owners' will and accept an idea they consider onerous and unnecessary? And so what if some teams would have to move; far from hurting major league baseball, wouldn't moves from weaker cities to stronger cities strengthen it?
In some instances, players do care about their teams' location. Tony Gwynn, for example, has forsaken greater wealth and possible World Series rings to remain in San Diego, his home and a place he loves. He made a decision that being happy in San Diego was more important to him than being a winner in Atlanta or Oakland or anywhere else.
For the most part, though, players don't become so attached to the cities where they play. They could play just as easily for the Padres or the Pirates, the Reds or the Royals. Does that mean they are insensitive to the feelings of the fans in the cities where they are employed? No, but they don't think they should put an artificial ceiling on their potential earnings either.
If a team playing in, say, Phoenix, could pay a shortstop more handsomely than that same team playing in Pittsburgh, most players would opt for the southwest. That preference does not make baseball players any different from any other group of employees.
The Players Association long has resented the owners' asking or expecting their employees to subsidize them. Sometimes companies ask employees to accept a temporary pay cut or a wage freeze, but that generally occurs when the company is on the verge of going out of business.
No teams have announced that their economic plight is so serious that they face the possibility of going out of business. Before an owner reached that point, he would sell the team -- for a hefty profit at that.
Rather than ask them to subsidize a team in trouble, the players feel, the owners should do that themselves if they want to keep a team in a certain city.
In 1992, the Giants were on the verge of moving to St. Petersburg, Fla., at what would have been a terrific profit for the selling owner, Bob Lurie. A local group of businessmen, however, jumped in at the last minute, made Lurie slightly less wealthy than the Florida group would have and kept the team in San Francisco.
The players didn't have to subsidize Peter Magowan and his partners. Instead, the Magowan group transformed the Giants into an exciting, winning team that attracted a record attendance at Candlestick Park last season.
At the same time, the Padres' owners decimated their team by purging it of its best (most expensive) players, and the Padres wound up with their lowest full-season attendance since 1980.
So what if the Padres have to move? If Phoenix or St. Petersburg, or Orlando or Buffalo, could support them more capably than San Diego, major league baseball would be better off.
Major league baseball generally prefers to keep its teams stationary. That's an admirable stance, but maybe there comes a time when change becomes not only necessary but good.
The Padres and the Expos each are a quarter of a century old, having joined the majors as expansion teams together in 1969. The Pirates have been in Pittsburgh forever. The departure of any of those teams would leave a void in each city's life but most severely in Pittsburgh because the Pirates long have been one of the city's treasured institutions.
But if any or all of those teams moved, presumably they would move to cities that could support them in economically better fashion. That improved support, in turn, would only strengthen the major leagues.
There is, on the other hand, another possible solution. Instead of moving, the present owners could sell those teams to people who would provide stronger, more creative management. If Magowan could do it in San Francisco, others could do it in Pittsburgh and elsewhere.
The Pirates have a hybrid ownership of public and private groups. That ownership deserves credit for buying the team from the Galbreath family and keeping it in Pittsburgh, but its time has passed. The Pirates could thrive under a new, aggressive, imaginative owner.
Contrary to what Giles and his fellow owners believe, a salary cap would not be the panacea for what they think ails baseball. It's simply the easiest and least challenging solution for them. Marvin Miller, the former head of the players' union, used to say the owners always asked the players to save them from themselves. The salary cap is their modern version of that theme.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO PADRES BASEBALL CLUB LTD PARTNERSHIP (66%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (58%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (58%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (58%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (58%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); MONTREAL EXPOS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); CANADA (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY TONY GWYNN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



447 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Diplomat's Speech on Extremism in Germany Stirs Storm

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 18

 BODY:
An unusually frank speech by a senior American diplomat about right-wing extremism in Germany has stirred a tempest here.
The diplomat, Douglas H. Jones, who heads the American diplomatic mission in Berlin, told an audience last week that many foreigners believe that Germany "lacks the will to confront its extremism problem pragmatically." 
 "It is not reassuring, for example, that more progress is not being made toward guaranteed civil rights for foreigners in Germany," he said.
Mr. Jones said at the beginning of his speech that his views "do not necessarily reflect any policy of the United States Government." Soon after he delivered it, the United States Embassy in Bonn issued a statement saying "it was inappropriate for him to make remarks so at variance with U.S. policy while working as an American official."
A German Government spokesman said later that the charge d'affaires at the United States Embassy in Bonn, Donald Kursch, "wrote to the chancellery on Friday, after the speech became known, to deeply regret the incident."
Mr. Jones, a 21-year-member of the Foreign Service who has served in his present post for five years, had previously announced that he would retire this year. He delivered his speech to a human rights group in Oranienburg, near Berlin.
Nearly all the points contained in the speech had already been made repeatedly by journalists and other commentators. What attracted attention was not the speech's content, but the identity of its author.
 
Suggestion of Racism
 At one point, Mr. Jones noted that Chancellor Helmut Kohl was among many German politicians who often say Germany "is not an immigration country."
"If I were a skinhead, I would take a certain amount of comfort in hearing that Germany was not a country of immigration," Mr. Jones said. "That would signal to me that the nearly seven million foreigners who live here legally do not belong here, and that I am justified in wanting them out. And to be honest with you, this sentiment is by no means limited to skinheads."
Mr. Jones also criticized German citizenship laws, which place paramount importance on German ancestry rather than on place of birth or residence.
"How can those minorities remain anything but conspicuous, underprivileged targets of anger and frustration if they have no chance to become assimilated on an equal basis with Germans if they so choose, or to have their own cultural distinctiveness protected from attack if they do not?" he asked. "If Germany is not a racist society, why is its nationality law, which was written in 1913, predicated upon race? Public attitudes toward minority communities in Germany are ambivalent at best."
Mr. Jones also criticized a recent proposal made by Wolfgang Schauble, the parliamentary leader of Mr. Kohl's Christian Democratic Union, that the German Army be used to maintain civil order in the country.
"I can think of nothing that would bring to mind worse associations or that would give more of an impression of a state in crisis than this blurring of the distinction between internal and external security," he said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Attacks Drop Slightly
 BONN, April 18 (Special to The New York Times) -- Right-wing acts of violence in Germany dropped slightly last year compared with 1992, according to a report by the German Government. But there were still 1,609 stabbings, beatings, arson attacks and the like against foreigners that took the lives of 7 people in 1993. A total of 727 were wounded, compared with 585 the year before.
The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, which issued the report last week , also said that in the first three months of this year, right-wing violence continued to decline, with a total of 349 incidents, including the bombing of a synagogue in Lubeck last month and five attempted murders, but no deaths.
Right-wing violence peaked in 1992, as did a wave of foreign asylum-seekers. The German Constitution was changed last summer to impose qualifications for the first time on the right to claim political asylum.
The report put the total membership of right-wing and extremist groups at 42,450, about the same as last year, and said more vigorous prosecution and heavier sentences in cases of violence had lessened the appeal of the groups.
The report also made clear that prosperous western German states, not the formerly Communist eastern areas now afflicted by unemployment, had the highest per capita incidence of racial violence in 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DISCRIMINATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WRITERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (68%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (68%); CITIZENSHIP (65%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; JONES, DOUGLAS H (AMB) WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



448 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Cracking Down on Corrupt Cops

 BODY:
The dramatic arrest of 14 officers in the 30th Precinct on drug-dealing and other charges -- plus evidence that many of their fellow cops knew what they were up to -- is further proof that New York City has a serious police corruption problem. It also argues strongly for bringing back the defunct office of the Special State Prosecutor for Criminal Justice.
Only months ago, witnesses before the Mollen commission on police corruption painted a frightening picture of a see-no-evil, hear-no-evil departmental culture in which felonious misconduct of the kind uncovered in Harlem's 30th Precinct easily flourishes. The crimes involved are neither trivial nor subtle. One officer charged last week is said to have shot and seriously wounded a drug dealer while stealing a bag of cocaine. 
 Officials say there will be arrests in as many as 10 other precincts over the next few weeks. The corruption may well be limited to isolated "pockets," as the Mollen commission concluded last December. But that is of little solace to people in poor, drug-infested neighborhoods. Living with police corruption means living without protection.
Both Police Commissioner William Bratton and his boss, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, have made clear they will not tolerate corruption or cops who protect their crooked colleagues. Acting on information gathered during two years of investigations and sting operations, Mr. Bratton is adding investigators to his Internal Affairs Division. To break the force's "blue code" of silence, he will also allow officers to report their suspicions anonymously. Such tips can be invaluable, provided care is taken to protect informants and to secure the corroboration needed to make a case.
Commissioner Bratton also hopes that the arrests and his own strong statements have already had "a chilling effect" on police corruption. In this he may be too optimistic. Fighting corruption over the long haul will take more than the department's newfound vigilance, welcome as it is. The time has come to revive the office of the Special State Prosecutor for Criminal Justice, an idea previously endorsed by Mayor Giuliani.
The job was eliminated four years ago in the face of dwindling indictments and an economic crunch. But given sufficient funding, and led by an experienced, nonpolitical prosecutor, the special prosecutor's office could help make corruption a riskier business for bad cops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SPECIAL STATE PROSECUTOR (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL STATE PROSECUTOR (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; EDITORIALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CORRUPTION (93%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FELONIES (78%); WITNESSES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); COCAINE (73%); LAYOFFS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



449 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: True 'Skinheads' Are Not the Racist Thugs of Media Fame

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Dominick Bruno Jr., whom you profile in an April 4 news article, certainly deserves lauds for his work in reporting on neo-Nazis and their cohorts in New Jersey. However, Mr. Bruno does not and never did deserve the name "skinhead." 
 The majority of skinheads are not racists. The skinhead movement itself was started in the mid-1960's by working-class youths in England. Instead of opting for the flamboyant, fancy-dress escapism of the Mod and Teddy Boy youth cults before them, the skinheads embraced working-class fashion: cropped hair, meant-to-last shoes and boots, white T-shirts and worn Levis.
They also borrowed from their working-class West Indian neighbors, adopting trilby hats and crombie jackets, peg-legged striped suits and love for ska, the Jamaican music that mixed Latin beats and American jazz melodies and was the forerunner of modern reggae. The original skinheads loved to dance to these ska beats, often frequented all-black nightclubs and had, by the end of the decade, several Jamaican "skinhead reggae" records and bands they loyally supported.
Racism appeared on the scene in the 1970's because of the poor economic climate in England. Many neo-Nazi groups began recruiting the skinheads, most of whom were in low-paying jobs or on the dole. Playing on the traditional nationalistic ideas of the working class, the fascist groups did their best to turn the skinheads against their immigrant neighbors. Unfortunately, many confused souls left the skinhead movement and joined the National Front and other neo-Nazi groups in England.
The skinhead movement never ended, although for a time in the 70's it was nearly nonexistent. This was mainly due to the bad rap skinheads received for their perceived violent ways. The violence often arose when true skinheads were threatened by the racist groups. There was a huge skinhead revival in the late 1970's and early 1980's with the advent of punk rock and oi, as well as with the Two Tone ska revival.
It was this second wave of skinheads that saw the beginning of Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice, or Sharp, which has chapters in every state in the United States as well as in nearly all Western European countries. It is dedicated to upholding the traditions of the skinhead movement, as well as battling racism.
Real skinheads are not the neo-Nazi fools one so often hears, sees and reads about in the media. Many skinheads, especially in New York City, are of Asian or African-American descent. They choose to be skinheads because they believe in the values of the working class, they believe all races should come together and they like to groove to the ska beat.
I ask that you please refer to neo-Nazi skinheads as fascists or racists or just plain ignorant slobs, but not as skinheads alone. They are not true skinheads, for they do not connect to the roots.
 
JENNIFER ABBOTS
New York, April 8, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NEO-NAZI GROUPS; SKINHEADS (NEO-NAZI YOUTH) RACE & RACISM (91%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: BRUNO, DOMINICK JR; ABBOTS, JENNIFER DOMINICK BRUNO JR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



450 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
Excuses For a Shame

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
It's mean out here. Half the country is cheering for a foreign government to go ahead and beat an American, age 18, to bloody pulp because he vandalized cars and signs in Singapore.
This was rotten of him, no doubt, and he is also sentenced to do jail time for it, but it says something about the collapse of American ego when half the country starts cheering for foreign powers to beat up our fellow citizens. 
 Inside the Beltway where I ventured recently there was deep philosophical calm about this apparent onset of national self-loathing. They are thoughtful inside the Beltway. So thoughtful. It must have something to do with the famous Beltway's power to concentrate the mind even as it deadens the emotions.
"You must understand about the bloody-pulp beating," these thoughtful people explained -- all in more or less the same words with that same philosophical calm so easy for a person to maintain about a bloody beating when he is not the party about to receive it -- "you must understand, there are a lot of people out there angry about crime."
"Out there," when spoken by people inside the Beltway, means "outside the Beltway," a vast space that exists mostly to be polled. Occasionally a reporter travels there and, on returning, is said to have been "out in the country." It's a little like those old movies about British India in which minions of the Raj sit around Delhi drilling the regiment and occasionally welcoming back some chap from the Blues who's been "up in the Punjab."
So the anger about crime "out there" is submitted to explain the mean public mood. In a place less richly equipped with polls, people might theorize that there are good economic reasons why meanness might be souring the American spirit. Its most revered corporations, for instance, have made a boast of being "lean and mean" as they betray years of employee loyalty by cutting thousands of workers and managers off payrolls.
In a secular nation the corporation is the closest thing we have to an idol worthy of worship. If meanness leads to corporate success, a citizen might be sensibly persuaded by the example.
Many people now live in fear of being wiped out in onsets of meanness required for the higher good of corporations and country. Economically therapeutic though such meanness surely is, the individual vulnerable to its salubrious savagery might naturally feel tempted to kick somebody even more helpless than himself. Or, as in the present case, to cry, "Lay on with a will, Singapore!"
Such theories receive no hearing inside the Beltway. It is too charmed right now by crime to entertain dull economic theories for human behavior. Everybody has polls showing all America is absolutely terrified by reports of inner-city crime whose victims are overwhelmingly black.
The Congress hasn't an idea of what to do to improve life in the inner cities. Even if it did know, unless it was cost-free it wouldn't do it anyhow, since Congress's chief constituency is suburban, not the inner city.
Voting "tough" on crime is easier for Congress than facing intractable urban problems. And so drug-inspired criminals, who deal out capital punishment to each other daily, will soon be subject to official capital punishment by the Federal Government!
There seems little disposition inside the Beltway to deal with the economic roots of American uneasiness. The news industry is besotted with the incomprehensibilities of Whitewater and the White House talks happily about statistics pointing to an economic recovery, but none of this has much to do with the depressing problem the polls keep hinting at.
That is, an awful lot of Americans are disappointed with their lives, think they are moving down the economic scale and are pessimistic about moving up again. There isn't much in Clinton economics to encourage their optimism. As a "new Democrat," he is basically a pre-Reagan Republican, which is to say a trickle-down fellow.
He is betting on those lean and mean corporations to do well, thus creating enough new jobs to improve the nation's mood. It isn't clear how this is going to stop the relentless march of electronic automations which makes it easier and easier to produce more and more while putting more and more people out of work.
It will probably get meaner out here -- or out there as they say inside the Beltway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); INDIA (79%); 

CITY: DELHI, INDIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); INDIA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VANDALISM (78%); SENTENCING (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); LAYOFFS (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



451 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol's Cost Far Outweighs the Benefit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As leaders of energy and transportation research groups, we respectfully suggest that Gov. E. Benjamin Nelson of Nebraska needs to watch out for mixing his fuels ("For the Air and the Economy, Try Ethanol," letter, April 7). Ethanol made from grain requires significant inputs of diesel and gasoline, as well as boiler fuels, for harvesting and processing, inputs that are almost the same as the energy in the gasoline displaced! 
 Ethanol "competes" with gasoline only because of generous Federal subsidies and tax forgiveness worth 54 cents a gallon of ethanol, plus additional state subsidies. Governor Nelson's own state gives an additional present equal to 10 cents a gallon of the ethanol used in the gasoline blend sold. For Nebraska, the subsidies exceed the wholesale price of gasoline!
While no one questions the small benefit ethanol blend gives to gasoline, few believe the blend is worth anywhere near these kinds of subsidies. And the Governor seems to have forgotten that in more than 20 years of debate, no Congress has refused to do anything about foreign oil except subsidize alternatives. Apparently Congress continues to believe in free lunches, or at least free drinks. While there may be some benefit in reducing oil imports, subsidizing ethanol is an expensive way to do it.
The jobs "created" in making ethanol are paid for by tax revenues from treasuries. Since ethanol is more expensive than oil, it reduces overall productivity, hurting employment. The oil industry has lost jobs, but consumers have billions more to spend from lower fuel prices, creating more jobs in other sectors. Ethanol requires a large transfer from tax coffers to ethanol producers, for small benefits. If only we got such tax treatment when buying wine!
We'll believe the Governor's Ethanol Coalition when it advocates a stiff gasoline tax to compensate for the real problems associated with importing and using gasoline, instead of robbing the public till for a second-rate fuel. Would not ethanol be better in French Burgundy or California zinfandel and not mixed with driving?
 
LEE SCHIPPER
DANIEL SPERLING
Berkeley, Calif., April 8, 1994
 
The writers are, respectively, co-leader of international energy studies, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, and head, Institute for Transportation Studies, U. of California, Davis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ETHANOL COALITION (94%); APPARENTLY CONGRESS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHANOL COALITION (94%); APPARENTLY CONGRESS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHANOL; AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUEL TAX (77%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WINE (63%); 

PERSON: SCHIPPER, LEE; SPERLING, DANIEL; NELSON, E BENJAMIN (GOV) BEN NELSON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994



452 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
SOUTH AFRICA BOYCOTT CANCELED
Zulu nationalist leaders in South Africa called off a boycott of the first all-race elections, greatly increasing hopes for a peaceful transition to democracy there. A1
 
CLINTON BACKS BOSNIA MOVE
President Clinton supported a proposal to broaden the use of NATO air power to protect United Nations "safe havens" in Bosnia. A1 

NATO reviewed a request for broader air-strike options. A12
 
SERBS DEFY U.N.
The Bosnian Serbs seized weapons that the U.N. had impounded near Sarajevo and continued to attack Gorazde and other towns. A13
 
DECISION CLOSER IN JAPAN
Japan's governing coalition informally settled on a new Prime Minister but failed to unite on measures to end the recession or resolve trade disputes with Washington. A1
 
 BIG SURGE IN TRADE DEFICIT
The trade deficit soared in February to its highest level in six years, as the United States bought more while its trading partners bought less American merchandise. D1
 
FRENCH NAZI SUPPORTER GUILTY
Paul Touvier was sentenced to life in prison for ordering the execution of seven Jews during World War II, the first Frenchman convicted of crimes against humanity. A3
 
RWANDAN REFUGEES ATTACKED
Rwandan Army troops shelled a stadium in the capital where thousands of people had taken refuge as the fighting between Government troops and rebels continued to spread. A8
 
A hair-raising escape by a Rwandan woman. A8
 
NO MORE HOPE ON CANING
The father of a youth sentenced to caning in Singapore for vandalism said his son has no more hope that appeals will enable him to avoid the punishment. A5
 
Israel rounds up suspected Palestinian militants. A7
 
Maastricht Journal: An unwilling drug bazaar near the border. A4
 
National A14-16, B9-12
 
SEX BARRED IN JUROR EXCLUSIONS
The Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection bars the exclusion of jurors because of their sex. A1
 
CURB ON SECURITIES LAWSUITS
The Supreme Court sharply limited lawsuits charging accountants and other professionals with taking part indirectly in a securities fraud. A1
 
ADMIRAL KEEPS STARS
With Pentagon officials watching nervously from across the Potomac, the Senate held an emotional debate then voted to allow the Navy's top admiral to retire with his four stars despite the Tailhook scandal. A1
 
PLANT CLOSES IN SAFETY DISPUTE
In an unusual dispute that temporarily threw 1,100 employees out of work, an Oklahoma tire factory abruptly closed down rather than follow a Government order to improve safety procedures. A16
 
NIXON'S CONDITION WORSENS
A day after being partly paralyzed by a stroke, the former President took a turn for the worse, and a doctor said the prognosis was "guarded." A14
 
CLINTON RETURNS TO MTV
In a Presidential question-and-answer session with students from around the country, topics ranged from Kurt Cobain's suicide to Bosnia to Mr. Clinton's underwear. A14
 
JURY AWARDS KING $3.8 MILLION
A jury ordered the city of Los Angeles to pay Rodney King $3.8 million in compensatory damages for his 1991 beating by police officers. A14
 
RACE AND MEDICAL CARE
Seriously ill Medicare patients who are black and poor receive worse care than other equally sick Medicare patients in every type of hospital in America, a study found. B9
 
ESPIONAGE INQUIRIES UNDER WAY
The head of the C.I.A. said major espionage investigations were under way at his agency and elsewhere in the Government. B10
 
Education Page B13
 
It's no revolution, but small colleges are offering alternatives to tenure.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
STUDY ON POLICE FORCE
Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said patrol officers are often inadequately supervised because their sergeants are overwhelmed by paperwork and scattered thinly. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-26
 
Speculation on Ellison's second novel. C13
Death sings along with grunge. C13
Theater: "Shaker Heights." C18
Film: "Sunday's Children." C20
Music: Dresden Staatskapelle. C14
A pianist of versatility. C14
The Pop Life C15
Opera from a philosopher's novel. C26
Dance: "Tales of Beatrix Potter." C13
Books: "The Cage." C19
Book Notes C19
Television: An American family's visit to South Africa.. C26
The Living Section C1-10
At dinner with Katarina Witt: Firepower off the ice. C1
Cooking (healthfully) with salt to unlock the flavor of food. C3
 
Obituaries D27
 
Dr. Roger Wolcott Sperry, a brain scientist and Nobel laureate.
 
Business Digest D1
 
Health Page C11
 
Personal Health: Sorting out a study of beta carotene.
 
Sports B14-19
 
Baseball: Mariners thump Yanks. B17
Bullpen cold comfort to Mets. B17
Mets beat Padres. B17
Basketball: Knicks fall to Hawks. B15
Boxing: Moorer angrily prepares for Holyfield. B15
Columns: Vecsey on Knicks. B15
Football: Two quarterbacks are focus of draft. B18
Hockey: Devils edge Sabres. B15
Islanders try to regroup. B19
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Gun sweeps: no model for cities.
Sweet settlement in South Africa.
Death of a writer.
Wrong way to control spending.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Real pain.
Jeane J. Kirkpatrick and Morton I. Abramowitz: Lift the embargo.
Bernard Aronson: One Mexican, one honest vote.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (83%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (83%); NOTES C19 TELEVISION (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SENTENCING (87%); JURY TRIALS (87%); APPEALS (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ARMIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); EQUAL PROTECTION (69%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); VANDALISM (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); PLANT CLOSINGS (64%); TIRE MFG (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



453 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Split Coalition In Japan Picks A New Premier

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 19

 BODY:
Leaders of Japan's ruling coalition settled today on Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata as the next Prime Minister but remained divided over policies to end the recession and reopen trade talks with the United States.
Mr. Hata's selection was assured when his remaining rival, a former Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, withdrew. 
 But the continuing disputes between the conservative members of the coalition and the Socialists over economic policy could delay the formal naming of Mr. Hata, 58, a conservative and pragmatist who has refused even to declare his candidacy.
Even worse, the failure to agree on basic issues could presage more of the paralyzing infighting that characterized the last months of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's Government, which was toppled 11 days ago because of Mr. Hosokawa's involvement in a financial scandal.
Mr. Hata defected from the Liberal Democratic Party last summer and was a founder of the current coalition. He favors a strong relationship with the United States but has opposed some of Washington's demands for greater access to Japanese markets.
Though he has operated near the corruption-tainted center of power for a decade, Mr. Hata is an approachable man with a common touch. He has also demonstrated an inclination to compromise and side with Japan's conservative bureaucracy. His greatest political achievement was his defection with a group of rebels from the Liberal Democratic Party, which ended 38 years of one-party rule. He and the others insisted it was time to clean up Japanese politics and put Japan on a path toward economic deregulation.
The divisions within the coalition could be bad news for Washington, which has been eager for a strong Government in Tokyo to deal with issues ranging from Japan's yawning trade surplus to North Korea's suspected nuclear weapons program.
Indeed, the infighting that surrounded Mr. Hata's selection made it clear that the new Government will not be able to quickly solve the problems that have brought relations between the world's largest economies to their lowest ebb in years.
The succession process has offered a peculiar spectacle. Under the one-party rule of the Liberal Democrats, prime ministers were generally selected in back-room bargaining and then formally named without delay. Even when the coalition ousted the Liberal Democrats, it moved quickly to pick Mr. Hosokawa.
This time, however, the process has been slowed by a broad party realignment in which the left-right polarization of the cold war has broken down and the parties have moved toward the political center. The attempts to reshape the coalition and its policies explain why Mr. Hata, an obvious successor to Mr. Hosokawa, has yet to win formal endorsement.
Mr. Hata made it clear today that he would keep Mr. Hosokawa's Cabinet almost intact, which would perpetuate at least some policy divisions. He said the reason for keeping many of the ministers would be to pass the long-delayed budget swiftly; the fiscal year began April 1.
"I'm not in a position to talk about the lineup of the new Cabinet, but common sense suggests the key positions will go to those who compiled the current budget," Mr. Hata said.
In addition, Mr. Hata is expected to move quickly to prepare measures to lessen Government regulation of the economy. He has said Japan would offer such a package before the summit meeting of the Group of Seven industrial countries in July.
The Clinton Administration has been seeking relaxation of Japan's regulatory process as a way of opening the economy to foreign companies. But this would be the third such package assembled in the last year, and most analysts have been disappointed with the previous efforts.
Because Mr. Hata has supported the bureaucracy, which jealously controls the regulatory apparatus, few expect bold new measures.
The biggest policy dispute today was over a proposal by Mr. Hata's party to alter the tax system. Finance Ministry bureaucrats have proposed a reduction in income taxes, to be offset by a large increase in the national sales tax, and Mr. Hata has accepted the plan.
The Socialists bitterly oppose this, in large part because the sales-tax increase would fall heavily on wage earners, the core of the party.
The Clinton Administration has also argued against the plan, saying it would stifle the chances of recovery from the two-year recession. Washington is encouraging faster growth because an expanding economy could absorb more imports and reduce Japan's trade surplus.
Still, Mr. Hata and the coalition's main strategist, Ichiro Ozawa, remain firmly in favor of the tax increase.
The group's leaders could only agree today that they would meet again Wednesday to resume debate.
In foreign policy, the coalition supported the United States-Japan security treaty, which the Socialists, the largest party in the coalition, had rejected for years.
The coalition also agreed on a vague statement promising cooperation with Washington on North Korea's nuclear weapons program. The Socialists have had moderately friendly relations with North Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); SCANDALS (68%); TRENDS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HATA, TSUTOMU (MIN); HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



454 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The Supreme Court sharply limited lawsuits that accuse accountants and other outside professionals of taking part indirectly in a securities fraud. [Page A1.] 
 The U.S. trade deficit soared in February to its highest level in six years, the Government said, as the economy went on a binge of buying from the rest of the world, while the country's trading partners bought less merchandise off American shelves. [D1.]
The tobacco industry has stepped up its efforts to show that cigarette companies are not the monsters that lawmakers portray them to be. [D1.]
The Commerce Department will publish in early May the first results of its long-gestating effort at environmental accounting -- a "green" tabulation of gross domestic product. [D2.]
 
Business Technology
Some computer executives wonder if the computer industry may be ripe for a fall, soon to be overtaken by $250 video-game players and computerized boxes for the television set-top. [D1.]
General Electric will start selling a long-life light bulb in Europe within weeks and in the U.S. before the year ends. [D6.]
 
Companies
CBS, ABC and NBC concluded their strongest season since cable began growing significantly in the early 1980's. [D1.]
Steven Hoffenberg, the failed New York financier, was indicted by a Federal grand jury in Chicago on charges of looting two small insurance companies in Illinois in 1987. [D2.]
 Chrysler earned record profits on record revenues in the first quarter as U.S. sales soared for its pickups, mini-vans and sport- utility vehicles. [D5.]
Merck & Company's earnings rose by 10 percent on strong sales in the first quarter, the first full quarter since Merck acquired Medco Containment Services. [D5.]
Philip Morris reported an increase of 59 percent in its first-quarter earnings, compared with results a year ago that were depressed by an accounting charge. [D5.]
Traders for Bankers Trust and Citicorp bet wrong in world markets in the first quarter of 1994, posting large losses in their trading activities for their own accounts. [D6.]
Gibson Greetings will take an additional charge against earnings for losses on its derivatives contracts. [D8.]
The New York Times Company reported an increase of 62 percent in its first-quarter earnings, largely because of stronger results at The New York Times. [D24.] The Times reached a tentative contract agreement with the Newspaper Guild. [B2.]
 
Markets
Stocks were mixed as traders convinced themselves that another interest rate increase was imminent. The Dow fell 0.60 point, to 3,619.82. [D8.]
The price of the 30-year bond was up 17/32 , to 8622/32 , while the yield fell to 7.36 percent, from 7.41 percent on Monday. [D20.]
Precious metals prices fell as the latest surge in American interest rates dampened prospects that inflation will accelerate as the economy grows. [D22.]
The dollar fell against most leading currencies as stock and bond prices see-sawed, raising concern about the stability of American financial markets. [D22.]

Today's Columns
Enforcing securities fraud laws will be harder now that the Supreme Court has thrown out what had been a settled concept -- that people who merely aid and abet securities fraud can be held liable in private civil suits. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Levi Strauss is scrambling to regain momentum for its popular Dockers line of men's clothing with a new $40 million campaign and some new apparel. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D24.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (82%); MRK (NYSE) (82%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (82%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); METALS MARKETS (72%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%); GRAND JURY (65%); INSURANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



455 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Continues To Widen

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit soared in February to its worst level in six years, as the United States, with a strong economy, went on a worldwide buying binge while its weaker trading partners bought less merchandise off American shelves.
The Commerce Department reported today that the trade deficit in goods and services was $9.71 billion in February, up sharply from January's imbalance of $6.64 billion. The deficit in goods alone rose by one-fifth, to $13.89 billion, while America's traditional surplus in services like tourism, brokerage, investment banking, insurance and film rentals dipped about 11 percent, to $4.18 billion. 
 The widening American trade imbalance underscores the failure of the Clinton Administration's efforts to spur the nation's leading economic allies to cut taxes and lower their interest rates enough to stimulate more consumer spending in Japan, Germany and Western Europe.
 
Vow Not Fulfilled
 The Clinton Administration came into office vowing to reinvigorate the Group of Seven industrial democracies -- Germany, Japan, Canada, Britain, France, Italy and the United States -- in part to make it a more effective instrument for coordinating economic growth. But thus far it has nothing to show for its efforts, and today's trade figures underline that point.
The Group of Seven, whose finance ministers will meet in Washington this weekend, has focused on aid to Russia and securing the global trade agreement signed in Morocco last Friday, but it has accomplished nothing on its primary mission of promoting economic growth among the industrial democracies. One result is that United States continues to expand much faster than its allies. While the American economy grew at a 7 percent clip in the final quarter of last year, Japan and Europe were either in recession or just beginning to climb out of it.
 
 
'Dead in the Water'
 "The G-7 is dead in the water," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics. "It has become totally ineffectual in achieving its primary purpose of maintaining a growing and stable world economy. The Administration has nothing to show for its policy of trying to reinvigorate the G-7 with quiet, behind-the-scenes coaxing."
This is a major element in the current trade deterioration, which is a drag on the American economy, Mr. Bergsten said, adding: "Of course, I would lay most of the blame on the Japanese and Europeans for their recalcitrance. Japan is in its third year of recession, has a budget surplus, its growth prospects are flat but its Government will not cut taxes without an offsetting tax increase."
As for the Europeans, Mr. Bergsten said, their behavior is "equally puzzling." The Europeans, led by the Germans, have been very slow to lower interest rates, even though their economies are stagnating. The Germans are worried about inflation and weakening their own currency by lowering interest rates. The French and other Western Europeans nations are reluctant to get out ahead of the Germans on interest-rate policy for fear of weakening their currencies as well.
Consequently, there is slow growth everywhere in the Group of Seven, except in the United States. American exports of merchandise dropped 3.5 percent, to $37.17 billion, while merchandise imports jumped 2.4 percent, to $51.05 billion, the second-highest level on record. American imports of foreign cars were also up sharply, rising 4.2 percent, to $8.82 billion in February, while foreigners bought fewer American aircraft, data processing equipment and industrial engines. These are the sort of large capital goods that foreigners need to buy from the United States if there is any hope of balancing out the trade figures.
These figures have economic consequences for the United States. For instance, when the trade deficit grows, it subtracts from the gross national product, because it means that an increased part of American domestic consumer demand is being satisfied by goods and services produced abroad and not in the United States. It hurts American workers as well, because Japan is, in effect, exporting some of its unemployment, by exploiting demand in the United States to fuel Japanese industry rather than by generating more of its own domestic demand.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" shows the amount of imports and exports in 1992 and 1993. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MOROCCO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GROUP OF SEVEN; INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS SICOME SA (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GROUP OF SEVEN; INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; ; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MOROCCO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; SERVICE INDUSTRIES ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BERGSTEN, C FRED; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERGSTEN, C FRED THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



456 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Rodney King Is Awarded $3.8 Million

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 19

 BODY:
A jury told the City of Los Angeles today to pay Rodney G. King $3.8 million in damages in compensation for his beating by police officers in 1991.
In the next phase of Mr. King's civil suit, to begin immediately, the jury will hear more testimony to determine whether any of 14 current and former police officers who were at the scene are liable for punitive damages in addition to today's award. 
 The award -- $3,816,535.45 -- was three times the $1.25 million the city had offered to pay Mr. King before the trial when it accepted liability for the beating. But it was far less than the $9.5 million Mr. King had sought. In closing arguments last week, his lawyer raised the ante and asked for $15 million.
"We think that this is a satisfactory result," City Attorney James K. Hahn said today, indicating that the city is unlikely to appeal the outcome. It had conceded liability in the beating in an effort to resolve the case and avoid a review of police procedures.
Mr. King's lawyer, Milton C. Grimes, said his client was "somewhat pleased" with the verdict. The lawyer said he would fight to win more money in the second phase of the trial.
 
'The Case Is Not Over'
 "I told him what the verdict was," Mr. Grimes said of Mr. King. "He was somewhat pleased with the verdict, and I told him we have not finished. He understood that. The case is not over."
Joseph Duff, who heads the local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., also said the award seemed fair. "I think that passes the test of reasonableness," he said. "It is a measure of the depth of pain and suffering and the understanding that there is a permanent injury to him."
An unemployed construction worker at the time of the beating, Mr. King, now 29, has not worked in three years. Experts at the trial estimated his lost earnings from his injuries at $500,000 to $1 million over his lifetime.
The compensatory damages from the city are intended to cover lost earnings and expenses for treatment of broken bones and neurological and psychological damage. Mr. King's lawyer has said his client will never be able to work again.
Legal experts said Mr. Grimes might receive about one-third of the amount awarded, although the details of his arrangement with Mr. King have not been made public. Mr. King's previous lawyer, Stephen Lerman, is reportedly also owed several hundred thousand dollars.
The defendants in the second phase of the trial include the four police officers who were tried twice for the beating, in which Mr. King was repeatedly struck with a police baton, kicked and shocked with a stun gun.
In a state trial in 1992, the officers' acquittal on assault charges promoted a riot that took more than 50 lives. In a Federal trial last year, two of the officers -- Stacey C. Koon and Laurence M. Powell -- were convicted of violating Mr. King's civil rights and are now serving 30-month prison terms.
After the verdict, the city was quiet today, with the April 1992 riot a fading memory. Vacant lots now mark the sites of many burned buildings in South-Central Los Angeles, the neighborhood most damaged by the riots. Rebuild L.A., the consortium formed to help put the area back on its feet, has been substantially reduced in size after only limited success, and crime, poverty and gang conflicts continue as before.
Since the beating, Mr. King has been arrested several times on accusations of drunken driving and spousal abuse and has been released each time. The police also said he had attacked an undercover officer who approached him as he was sitting in a car with a transvestite prostitute.
Witnesses at the trial described him as still shaken by his beating and its aftermath, fearful in the streets and shying away from the police.
Mr. King himself gave his most graphic account of the beating. "I felt like I had been raped," he testified. "I felt like I had lost half of my face."
He also asserted that his assailants yelled racial epithets, a point disputed in all the trials stemming from the beating. His lawyers portrayed him as a victim of racism, beaten by the white officers because he is black.
In an effort to limit damages, the city focused on Mr. King's character before the beating, including his imprisonment for robbery and troubles with alcohol and drugs.
In the second phase of Mr. King's suit, for punitive damages, the legal travails resume for the police officers who were tried in the beating.
The two convicted officers, Mr. Powell and Mr. Koon, were dismissed from the force are serving their time in a prison camp in Dublin, Calif.
"He cleans toilets eight hours a day, oh, it's terrible," said Ira Salzman, Mr. Koon's lawyer, in an interview before the civil trial.
The two other officers, who were tried and acquitted, were Theodore Briseno, who remains suspended without pay from the force awaiting a hearing, and Timothy E. Wind, a rookie who was dismissed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINES (PENALTIES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; TRIALS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; POLICE LAWYERS (91%); DAMAGES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (85%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); 

PERSON: KING, RODNEY GLEN RODNEY G KING (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



457 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: NATO Weighs a U.N. Plan To Strike Six Bosnia Sites

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BONN, April 19

 BODY:
NATO officials today began urgent consideration of a request by the United Nations Secretary General to authorize air strikes in defense of all six United Nations-designated "safe areas" in Bosnia, with the allies divided on a step many of them fear would make NATO a combatant in the war.
With one previous strategic success, in forcing an end to the siege of Sarajevo by Bosnian Serb fighters two months ago, NATO military planners in Brussels began considering whether allied air power should be used to protect the five other "safe areas," including beleaguered Gorazde, from Serbian attack. 
 Currently, NATO has accepted responsibility only for air strikes to defend United Nations forces in Bosnia. When American warplanes under NATO command attacked Serbian targets near Gorazde last week, it was not to prevent them from taking territory but to protect United Nations troops.
 
A Step Further
 Mr. Boutros-Ghali's overnight request for authorization of NATO air strikes to protect the Bosnian Government-controlled "safe areas," if he requests them, would take the alliance's involvement a step further.
"What the U.N. is asking us to do is to act against artillery pieces, mortars, or tanks in protected areas which U.N. forces there determine are responsible for attacks on the zones," a NATO official said. "Obviously it will be very difficult to determine where they are and to coordinate with the U.N. to call in strikes against them, and the military are now looking at the possibilities."
NATO officials said it was doubtful that the study would be completed in time for ambassadors from the 16 member countries to decide on an answer to Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's request at their regular weekly North Atlantic Council meeting on Wednesday.
But in the NATO capitals, where the real decisions are made, the allies are split about the wisdom of taking the fateful next step down the road toward direct military involvement to stop a war that has made the alliance appear impotent in the face of Serbian aggression in Gorazde.
 
British Most Skpetical
 The British, with more than 3,000 troops in the lightly armed United Nations peacekeeping force in Bosnia, remain the most skeptical because of fears of Serbian retaliation against their soldiers in case of NATO air attacks.
Some British officials are also growing increasingly critical of the Clinton Administration's reluctance to become involved on the ground in Bosnia until after a peace settlement is reached.
"Some have had quite unrealistic expectations about what can be achieved by the use of air power alone or by ground forces that are not equipped or organized to operate in a combat role," Defense Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said in a House of Commons debate on Monday.
But the French, with more than 4,000 troops in Bosnia, support the U.N. request for broader authorization of the use of NATO air power, according to a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry in Paris.
 
'Carrot-and-Stick Approach'
 France's Foreign Minister, Alain Juppe, has also called for intensified diplomatic coordination by American, Russian, and European Union negotiators to push Bosnia's Serbs, Croats and Muslims toward peace.
"We support a carrot-and-stick approach," a French spokesman said, "with the threat of air strikes and the carrot of progressive lifting of international economic sanctions against the Serbs if they agree to peace."
The United States and France brought their NATO allies around in February to issuing an ultimatum to the Serbs to withdraw their heavy weapons from a zone around Sarajevo. But they remain divided on the wisdom of talking about possibly lifting sanctions at a time when the Clinton Administration believes the Serbs have done nothing to deserve relief.
Germany, which supported the NATO ultimatum in Sarajevo, is far more reluctant about extending the threat of violent intervention to other "safe areas."
 
Political Solutions Pressed
 A German spokesman said that Chancellor Helmut Kohl told President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia by telephone today that "every effort should be made to put an end to bloodshed in the region and bring about a lasting peace."
In telephone talks with President Clinton and Mr. Mitterrand on Monday, Mr. Kohl also emphasized the need for political solutions over intensified military measures, said the spokesman, Dieter Vogel. "It is the view of the German Government that we should not be urging stronger military steps on others when we can't become militarily involved ourselves," Mr. Vogel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (59%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; GORAZDE (BOSNIA); BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (59%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



458 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Prices Rise for 30-Year Bond as Traders Reconsider Fed's Move

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The ripples in the pond began to subside yesterday, one day after the Federal Reserve raised short-term rates for the third time this year. But investors remain mindful that the central bank may have more stones to throw.
Short-covering in early trading helped to move Treasury prices up off their early lows, as the release of February merchandise trade data caused some economists to shave their estimates for economic growth in the first quarter of this year. 
 The Government said that the February trade gap widened to $12.36 billion, from a revised $10.17 billion in January. Including a surplus in services exports, the total trade gap expanded to $9.71 billion, from a revised $6.64 billion shortfall in January, the report showed.
Some economists said the bigger deficit suggested that the net export sector could turn out to be more of a drag on first-quarter growth than people were expecting.
"I think there will be considerable slowing going into the second quarter," Peter J. Canelo, chief investment strategist at NatWest Securities, said.
By late in the day, the 30-year bond was up 17/32 , to 8622/32 , while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 7.36 percent, from 7.41 percent on Monday. Shorter-maturity bills were mixed, with a three-month bill rate at 3.74 percent, down from 3.76 percent the previous day, and a six-month bill 4.20 percent, down from 4.21 percent. A one-year bill rose to 4.66 percent from 4.63 percent.
Traders think the overall bearish sentiment will continue to weigh on bond prices ahead of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meeting on May 17, when most market participants expect another credit tightening and possibly an increase in the Fed's discount rate, which is now 3 percent.
"As you get close to 4 percent, 4.50 percent, people will begin wonder how far you have to go," Mr. Canelo said.
Comments by Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, were taken by many traders as another indication that the Fed would raise its target for short-term interest rates again in the near future. Monday's move raised it a quarter of a percentage point, to 3.75 percent.
Traders and analysts said Mr. Parry mentioned that the Fed's goal was inflation near zero, and that the economy was likely to keep growing above long-run potential.
While Mr. Parry had made similar comments in the past, analysts said the impact was greater because they were the first words from the Fed after its latest interest-rate move.
The market's rebound was helped by a realization that second-quarter borrowing needs by the Government are much lower than originally thought. Traders said the Treasury cut the size of the weekly bill auctions by $800 million, to $22.8 billion. It was the third straight cut of this size, reflecting greatly reduced second-quarter borrowing needs and possibly stronger-than-expected tax receipts. The Government will announce today the size of next week's auctions of two- and five-year notes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT T PARRY (72%); PETER J CANELO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



459 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Poor and Black Patients Slighted, Study Says

BYLINE: By SANDRA BLAKESLEE 

 BODY:
Seriously ill Medicare patients who are black and poor receive worse care than other equally sick Medicare patients in every type of hospital in America, a new study has found.
But the disparity is far less serious in big city teaching hospitals, where a majority of elderly black Medicare patients go for treatment, the researchers said. Because those hospitals provide better care than other types of hospitals, poor black patients paradoxically end up getting care that is just as good as that provided to other groups over all. 
 But the finding suggests that the quality of care may vary tremendously with a patient's race, and not, as other studies have suggested, with whether a person has insurance.
A second study found that in Veterans Affairs hospitals, blacks who suffered heart attacks received less medical treatment than whites, even though both groups have identical access to care. But surprisingly, 30 days after their heart attacks, blacks had an 18 percent higher survival rate than whites. Two years later, both groups had equivalent rates.
 
A Call for Soul Searching
 Although black and poor patients did not experience higher death rates in either study, said Dr. John Z. Ayanian, a medical instructor and health care analyst at Harvard Medical School, their quality of life after receiving medical treatment was lower than that of white patients with similar conditions.
Medical experts said the nation's doctors and nurses had some soul searching to do. "These studies should encourage all medical professionals to reflect on and explore the quality of care they provide" to black and poor patients, Dr. Ayanian said.
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Jesse Brown, said he was concerned about the possibility of "a racial bias in the delivery of care at V.A. hospitals."
The two studies appear today in The Journal of the American Medical Association.
The first examined the quality of care given to 9,932 Medicare patients who were taken to the hospital for congestive heart failure, heart attack, pneumonia or stroke. Eleven percent were black, 10 percent poor and 5 percent both black and poor.
The patients were treated at 297 hospitals in 30 cities and towns in five states. Half of the hospitals were in large cities, 15 percent were in rural towns and 35 percent were advanced teaching hospitals in major cities.
Based on advice from panels of physicians, the researchers looked at the quality of care in each hospital. This included speed of admission to intensive care, how doctors and nurses performed on 241 clinical practices, length of stay, whether patients were sent home or to nursing homes and death rates one to six months after admission.
"Within each type of hospital and even within each individual hospital, patients from black or poor neighborhoods got less care," said Dr. Katherine L. Kahn, the study's lead author, who is an internist at U.C.L.A. and an analyst at the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif.
Only 47 percent of the very sick black and poor patients were put into intensive care units, as opposed to 70 percent of other, similarly ill Medicare patients, Dr. Kahn said. Doctors and nurses conducted less thorough interviews and physical exams with black and poor patients and tended to discharge them from the hospital earlier and with unstable conditions like rapid heart beats.
Over all, Dr. Kahn added, the survival rate of blacks and whites was the same. This is because many more blacks went to urban teaching hospitals where the quality of care is much higher than at the other types of hospitals, she said.
In the second study, researchers examined data on 33,641 veterans who went to the nation's V.A. hospitals from 1988 to 1990 for treatment for heart attacks.
The 4,522 blacks treated were 33 percent less likely than whites to have catheters inserted into their hearts to look for damaged arteries, 42 percent less likely to have blocked arteries reamed with balloons or similar devices, and 54 percent less likely to undergo heart bypass surgery, said Dr. Eric Peterson, a Duke University Medical Center cardiologist who helped conduct the study, which was analyzed at the West Roxbury V.A. Hospital in Massachusetts.
In the Veterans Affairs system, black and white veterans have the same health care insurance and tend to come from similar socioeconomic backgrounds, Dr. Peterson said, so the disparity in treatment has to be explained in other terms.
While racism could be a factor, he said, the way the data were collected could also bias the picture. The study relied on brief descriptions of each patient's treatment noted at the time of hospital discharge and did not reflect the severity of each person's disease, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE RAND CORP (60%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION MEDICARE (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PNEUMONIA (73%); STROKES (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); 

PERSON: BLAKESLEE, SANDRA KATHERINE L KAHN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



460 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Tire Factory Shuts Doors In Dispute Over Safety

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

 BODY:
In an unusual legal tussle that temporarily threw 1,100 employees of an Oklahoma tire factory out of work, the owners of the plant abruptly closed it yesterday rather than follow a Labor Department directive to improve safety procedures there.
But tonight, after obtaining a judicial restraining order that for the moment blocked the directive from taking effect, the company reopened the plant and told its workers to report for the regular 11 P.M. shift. 
 The directive, issued to the Dayton Tire Company of Oklahoma City, included a $7.4 million fine, one of the largest ever issued by the department. Labor Department officials cast the action as part of a broad effort by the Clinton Administration to step up enforcement of Federal safety regulations. It came after one worker was crushed to death by a tire assembly machine last fall, several others were maimed and the company did nothing to improve safety conditions, the officials said.
The company's response to such enforcement -- simply shutting its doors -- was called outrageous by Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich in an interview today. He said it was the first time a company had responded in that way, and he threatened to challenge it in court.
 
A High-Stakes Test
 "If they are retaliating against their workers for complaining about safety violations, they are potentially breaking the law," Mr. Reich said in a telephone interview. "I do not want the factory shut down."
Mr. Reich had traveled to Oklahoma on Monday to personally issue the department's citation for "willful violations" of safety rules and notice of the fine, which the company is contesting.
In effect, the wrangling between labor officials and the tire company over the past day and a half quickly turned into a high-stakes test of the aggressiveness of the department's enforcement, with the fate of the workers' jobs hanging in the balance.
Even though the plant was operating tonight, both sides said they expected to be back in court later this week. Company officials reiterated vows to close down again if the directive stands.
The company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bridgestone Corporation, based in Japan and the second-largest tire manufacturer in the world, cast the Labor Department's directive as onerous and excessive and said it had been issued by overzealous bureaucrats.
 
Unplugging of Machinery
 The safety practices in question are technically known as "lockout-tagout" procedures, involving the service and maintenance of machinery. Federal safety regulations require that all such machinery be unplugged before any repairs are done.
Trevor C. Hoskins, a vice president for public affairs for the company, said from his office in Nashville that the company had its own procedures for servicing the machinery and that they were adequate. The death last October of 53-year-old Bob L. Julian, who was crushed when a tire assembly device started operating while he was servicing it, was an unfortunate accident, company officials said.
Other workers at the factory, which produces 35,000 tires a day in round-the-clock shifts, have ended up with mangled arms or lost fingers in the last several months, according to Labor Department records.
"This company is simply refusing to protect its workers," Mr. Reich said. "It is not difficult in our judgment, or expensive, to protect its workers and come into compliance with the law."
 
Changing Priorities?
 Union groups praised the Clinton Administration for taking such an aggressive stand. "I think it does represent a commitment to strong enforcement of job safety laws, which we welcome and think is long overdue," said Margaret Seminario, director of safety and health for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Washington.
She and other union officials cast the enforcement action as symbolic of the change of priorities over those of the Reagan and Bush Administrations, which the union officials argued were very reluctant to prod companies into obeying safety laws.
But Joseph Kinney, executive director of the National Safe Workplace Institute, a private research group, said the move might be more a function of stronger economic times.
In the first year of the Clinton Administration, when politicians were primarily concerned about creating and retaining American jobs, the Labor Department collected $90 million in safety-related fines, $20 million less than in the last year of the Bush Administration, he said.
"The history of this is that when the economy is soft, the regulators back off," Mr. Kinney said. "And when it's strong, they turn the screws back on."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (84%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (84%); NAICS326212 TIRE RETREADING (84%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DAYTON TIRE CO; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BRIDGESTONE CORP (84%); BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS HOLDING INC (84%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (89%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAYTON TIRE CO; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (89%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; TIRES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINES (PENALTIES) LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); TIRES (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



461 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Mayor to Offer Plan to Assist Minority Firms

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Three months after eliminating the most powerful part of an affirmative- action procurement program intended to aid companies owned by women and members of minority groups, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is expected to announce a new, more modest initiative today to aid the same companies and other small businesses.
Under the plan, to be administered by the Department of Business Services, city procurement officials are to solicit bids for all city work from small companies and from those owned by women and members of minority groups. The work put up for bids is to include jobs that in the past have been deemed too small to warrant bids from more than five companies. 
 Because of the potential of broader participation in the bidding process, especially for smaller jobs, Mr. Giuliani's economic advisers say that hundreds of millions of dollars in city contracts will be available to small companies, many of them owned by minority-group members, that had previously been overlooked.
 
No Guarantees
 The new approach will replace the so-called 10-percent preference, an affirmative-action rule adopted under Mayor David N. Dinkins that allowed city agencies to accept bids that were as much as 10 percent higher than the lowest bid if it meant the winner would be a woman or a business owner from a minority group.
Although the new approach clearly lacks the financial leverage of the price preference rule, and provides no guarantees that more work will go to women or members of minority groups, it is designed to make the bidding process more accessible to small companies.
A "bid-match system," is to be set up, operated by the Department of Business Services and linking businesses to a computer; the system, officials said, will make information about small contracts available to more bidders. It will also match qualified companies with a contract being awarded, assuring that many more businesses are contacted and encouraged to bid.
"Small and minority- and woman-owned businesses will be able to find out, at the push of a button, about available procurement opportunities," said Rudy Washington, the city's Commissioner of Business Services, in a news release distributed late yesterday.
Officials said the most immediate change in the system would be to expand the procurement process for goods and services. The news release, which provided only a broad outline of the program and which officials declined to elaborate on, said $145 million in contract awards for goods and services would be made available to companies owned by women and members of minority groups that had previously been bypassed in the bidding process.
Under current policies, city contracts to buy goods that cost under $10,000 and to pay for services under $15,000, are offered to no more than five bidders, who are picked by city procurement officials.
 
Construction Work
 More changes are to be made within three months, yesterday's news release said, when the bidding process is amended for construction work. The release said small companies and those owned by women and minority-group members would be solicited in the bidding process for as much as $400 million in city work that has not in the past been available to them.
During his campaign, Mr. Giuliani said he was not eliminating the goal set under Mr. Dinkins of steering as much as 20 percent of the city's contracts to companies owned by women and members of minority groups. But it was clear that Mr. Giuliani was approaching that goal with less enthusiasm than his predecessor.
The procurement process, he said, "has to become an ethnic-, race-, religious-, gender- and sexual-orientation-neutral program."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; CONTRACTS; SMALL BUSINESS MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); WOMEN (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (89%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



462 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Bankers Trust and Citicorp Report Large Trading Losses

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Traders at Bankers Trust and Citicorp bet wrong in world markets in the first quarter of 1994 -- a rough period for many investors -- and posted large losses in their trading activities for their own accounts, according to earnings reports released yesterday. The specific numbers were not disclosed, but analysts estimated each bank's loss at about $150 million.
While Bankers Trust had confirmed market reports of trading losses, the large losses at Citicorp were a surprise. 
 Profits from trading with customers helped both banks post small positive numbers for overall trading revenue. Trading revenue at Bankers Trust was $14 million in the first quarter, down from $346 million a year earlier. At Citicorp, trading revenue fell to $71 million, from $386 million in the first quarter of 1993.
In total, however, operating earnings were up sharply at Citicorp, and down substantially at Bankers Trust, compared with the corresponding quarter of 1993.
Other banks posted more modest trading declines than Citicorp and Bankers Trust, which are two of the most active traders among American banks.
The Chemical Banking Corporation, which also released its first-quarter results yesterday, said its trading revenue fell by 25 percent, to $185 million. J. P. Morgan & Company, also one of the most active banks in trading, said last week that its first-quarter trading revenue was down by 25 percent.
Traders were surprised by the rise in European interest rates, the yen's rise against the dollar and the speed of the rise in interest rates in the United States.
"It wasn't bad; we just didn't get it right," the chairman of Bankers Trust, Charles S. Sanford Jr., said after the bank's annual meeting yesterday.
Analysts said that they were encouraged that despite the turbulent markets the trading losses were not higher.
 
 
Citicorp's Results
 At Citicorp, the nation's largest banking company, various accounting changes caused the reported profit to fall to $553 million, from $670 million in the corresponding period a year earlier. But excluding the charges, the bank's operating profit increased by 64 percent, to $609 million from $370 million.
The sharp increase was due mainly to a decrease of $424 million in the charges for bad loans and increased profits from banking business in Asia and Latin America.
Despite the trading losses, Citicorp's profitability -- as measured by its return on common equity -- rose to 20.1 percent, a high figure for a banking company, from 14.3 percent a year earlier.
"The bank's business did fine," John S. Reed, the chairman of Citicorp, said in a brief interview after the bank's shareholder meeting yesterday. "We had a good quarter. Trading is a piece, but not an important piece."
He said Citicorp lost money in the first quarter trading for its own account in European and Latin American bonds. These losses were offset by profits from trading with customers.
Mr. Reed added that the trading losses might actually have some benefits for the bank: "I feel good about this. If one part of the bank goes up, up, up forever, you are going to lose your sense of perspective. We had a tough trading quarter that will probably help us be better in the future."
 Bankers Trust said its reported profits increased slightly, to $164 million from $155 million. But since the 1993 quarter included a $75 million charge for accounting changes, the bank's operating profit declined by 29 percent.
Bankers Trust, which has been the most profitable of the country's big banks, posted a modest return on equity of 15 percent for the quarter, down from 24 percent a year earlier.
The bank also said interest it earned on the bonds in its trading portfolio increased to $177 million in the first quarter from $117 million a year earlier, partly compensating for the trading losses.
Also partly offsetting the trading losses were higher revenues from trading derivatives. Bankers Trust mainly trades derivatives with its customers, corporations and investors that use them to hedge or take additional risks. The bank uses bonds and currencies, rather than derivatives, to trade for its own account.
The bank also engages in a number of less volatile businesses, including money management and various operating services. These businesses helped provide a base of $491 million in fees and other noninterest revenue.
Bankers Trust resembles a brokerage firm more than a traditional bank because it shuns lending money and instead specializes in underwriting and trading of securities and derivatives. Unlike most banks, Bankers Trust had no charges for bad loans last quarter, and indeed recovered $21 million from loans it had previously charged.
Chemical, the nation's third-largest banking company, reported first-quarter profits of $319 million, down from $374 million. Chemical said its 1993 results were increased by a $35 million gain related to accounting changes and $63 million in tax benefits. Taking those into account, Chemical's operating earnings increased 16 percent.
Chemical took a pretax charge of $48 million to cover the costs associated with closing 50 branches and eliminating 650 jobs.
The bank said its trading revenue fell 25 percent from a year earlier, mainly because of "a small loss" in trading securities issued in emerging markets.

GRAPHIC: Tables: "Bankers Trust New York Corp. (BT:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	164,000,000	b155,000,000	+5.8	Per shr.	1.90	1.75	 	
 
b-After a charge of $75 million, or 89 cents a share, from an accounting adjustment.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$70
Up 50
 
"Chemical Banking Corp. (CHL:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	319,000,000	b311,000,000	+2.6	Per shr.	1.13	1.09	 	Sh. out.	253,200,000	248,500,000	 	
 
b-After a gain of $35 million, or 14 cents a share, from an adjustment in accounting.
Year-ago net income and per-share earnings are pro forma to assume the company's 1993 first-quarter results are reported on a fully taxed basis. The company recognized its remaining available Federal tax benefits in the third quarter of 1993 and its earnings, starting in the fourth quarter of 1993, are reported on a fully taxed basis.
Chemical Banking said that the latest first quarter included a restructuring charge of $28 million for the closing of 50 New York branches and a staff reduction of 650.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$37
Down 50
 
"Citicorp (CCI:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	b553,000,000	c670,000,000	-17	Per shr.	1.11	1.38	 	
 
b-After a charge of $56 million, or 13 cents a share, from an adjustment in accounting.
c-After a gain of $300 million, or 67 cents a share, from an accounting adjustment.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$38.75
Down 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); CITICORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ACCOUNTING (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



463 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Factors to Be Calculated in G.D.P.

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
In a bow to Earth Week, the Commerce Department announced today that it would publish in early May the first results of its long-gestating effort at environmental accounting: a "green" tabulation of gross domestic product.
The project, believed to have been first proposed in the Ford Administration and formally under way since 1992, seeks to show the interaction of the economy and the environment and to ultimately allow better assessment of the country's standard of living and its sustainability. 
 Critics have contended that current G.D.P. figures are misleading because, in measuring the total output of goods and services, the broadest gauge of economic activity, they make no provision for factors like air pollution from factories or the depletion of mines and forests.
Many economists had assumed that the current system of calculation overstated G.D.P. But it appeared today that the system might actually push up G.D.P. estimates. Officials repeatedly avoided comment today on the release of preliminary figures for the project's first phase, which dealt with underground minerals. But if the findings show, for example, that American oil companies found more oil than they extracted, an upward adjustment might be made.
Such an outcome is plausible considering that the country relies on imported oil for more than 50 percent of its supplies and the fact that constantly improving technology makes more oil economically recoverable.
According to the American Petroleum Institute, the United States had proved reserves in 1992 that would last 9.7 years at that year's rate of production, up from a low of nine years in 1980.
"We do not have a sustainability problem, at least not in the near future," one department source said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Under the supplementary, or "satellite," G.D.P. accounts, natural and environmental resources are considered productive assets. Their depletion and degradation are treated like depreciation, subtracted from G.D.P. to arrive at net domestic product.
Conversely, additions to stocks and these assets are treated as capital formation in structures and equipment, and are added to G.D.P.
The department said it planned to publish its subsoil minerals results in the April issue of its Survey of Current Business, which is expected to be available on May 10. A minerals satellite account will be constructed retroactively for several decades, some data being available back to 1947.
The project, with an annual budget the department hopes to increase to $1.5 million from the current $400,000, does not involve expanded data collection.
The second phase of the project deals with renewable, above-ground resources like timber and fish. The initial estimates are expected sometime in 1995.
Then, perhaps in 1996, will come estimates for what the department described as "a broader range of issues, such as those related to the economic impact of degradation in air and water quality."
The satellite accounts, to be published once a year, will not replace the present G.D.P. compilation, which is published quarterly and revised in the subsequent two months. The formal designation of the new accounts is integrated economic and environmental satellite accounts, or Ieesa's.
When fully put into operation, the department said, "Ieesa's would permit identification of the contribution of natural and environmental resources by industry, by type of income and by product. Ultimately, accounts by region would add an important analytical dimension."
The department's Bureau of Economic Analysis was a pioneer in the environmental area in the mid-1970's, when it introduced estimates of the amount spent on pollution abatement and control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); ENVIRONMENT; LIFE STYLES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



464 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Zuckerman to Sue Transit Agency and the City

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Despite his decision on Monday to postpone closing on the sale of the New York Coliseum, Mortimer B. Zuckerman moved ahead yesterday with a court suit against the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the city, saying the contract was not valid because they had failed to satisfy contract conditions.
Mr. Zuckerman, who has a contract to build a 2.1 million square-foot complex on the Coliseum property, said yesterday that he did not withdraw his suit because the postponement on Monday made no difference in the matters before the court. 
 "We still don't have an agreement," Mr. Zuckerman said, referring to his efforts to negotiate a reduced price for a smaller development on the site. "And as far as we are concerned we don't have a valid contract. We are just trying to protect our legal position."
On Monday, which had been the deadline for a closing on the property, Mr. Zuckerman exercised his right to a 55-day delay at the request of the Giuliani administration. Mr. Zuckerman stands to lose a $33.8 million down payment if he does not close.
State Supreme Court Judge Ira Gammerman yesterday set the start of a trial for June 1, a little more than one week before the 55-day postponement is up.
Among Mr. Zuckerman's concerns are that because of neglect, the garage on the property cannot be delivered in the condition specified in the contract.
The suit also charges that the city's Industrial Development Agency, the agency through which the developer is to receive certain tax benefits, cannot legally participate in the transaction because the project has a residential component.
John Cunningham, an M.T.A. spokesman, said there is no basis for the lawsuit.
"We were ready to close last Monday, we are ready to close today," Mr. Cunningham said.
The spokesman said the issue concerning the condition of the garage is not substantial because repairs could be made in a few days.
Speaking on the development agency's legal position, Mr. Cunningham said it was a point on which the M.T.A. has been challenged in the past.
"These are some of the same claims made by Coalition Against Columbus Circle when it tried to prevent the project from being built," Mr. Cunningham said. "They maintained that the I.D.A. was not authorized to participate because the project was mixed-use. We won in court on that point and expect to do so again."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (54%); INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM; SUITS AND LITIGATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B MORTIMER B ZUCKERMAN (95%); JOHN ANDERSON CUNNINGHAM (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



465 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Stocks End Day Mixed; Dow Off 0.60

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
In seesaw trading and with heavy volume, the stock market closed mixed yesterday as traders persuaded themselves that another rate increase by the Federal Reserve Board was imminent.
Traders had some basis for believing so. In a California speech reported around 1 P.M., Eastern time, yesterday, Robert Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank in San Francisco and a proponent of higher rates, said, "We still have a way to go" in fighting inflation. 
 Mr. Parry gave his speech the day after the Fed raised short-term interest rates for the third time in less than three months.
The bond market, whose securities lose value when rates rise, understandably reeled from the news. But the stock market plunged even more steeply. Shortly before 1:45 P.M., the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen 31 points. Then traders took less than an hour to bid up the Dow industrials to recover the lost ground. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 had a similar recovery.
Generally strong first-quarter earnings ought to have sustained the rally but did not. Chrysler, Philip Morris, Citicorp, GTE, Lockheed and Sprint all reported higher first-quarter profits. But after gyrating wildly, two stocks closed down and two closed up, but only feebly. The exceptions were Philip Morris, which closed up 1 3/4, to 51 7/8, and GTE, which closed up 1 1/2, to 31 5/8.
 
Dow Industrials Down
 Over all, the Dow and the S. & P. 500 were essentially unchanged yesterday and the Nasdaq composite index continued its decline. The Dow industrials fell 0.60 point, to 3,619.82, and the S. & P. 500 rose 0.08 point, to 442.54. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 7.60 points, to 712.85.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.33 point, to 245.37. Declining stocks outnumbered advancing stocks by 1,491 to 749. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 2.90 points, to 431.10.
Many traders took advantage of the lower prices for stocks and came in from the sidelines to buy. Volume yesterday for the New York Stock exchange totaled nearly 324 million shares, or more than 6 percent above this year's average of about 304 million shares.
Stock traders may deepen their concern about the effect of higher interest rates on housing. The Government is scheduled to report March housing starts today and the consensus estimate of Wall Street economists is for a 7.9 percent rise.
"There'll be a tremendous amount of interest in the housing numbers," said Mary C. Farrell, an investment strategist for Paine Webber. If the housing figure is higher, it will confirm traders' fears of inflation. If it is lower, the figure may accelerate some worries about an economy slowed by rising interest rates, Ms. Farrell said.
The new interest-rate arithmetic so far is painful for home buyers. One of the cheapest mortgages available goes for 8.26 percent, up from 7.13 percent in January. That means on a 30-year, $100,000 mortgage, the monthly payment has risen almost $80, to $750.
Yesterday, lumber prices fell for the 14th time in 16 trading sessions. Lumber futures, for May delivery, fell $7.10, to $326.90 for 1,000 board feet. The National Association of Home Builders, a trade group, reported yesterday that the percentage of home builders who said they had seen "good" sales so far this month had fallen to 43 percent from 45 percent in March.
Whirlpool, the appliance maker; Wickes Lumber, a retailer of building-materials products; Lennar, a home builder, and Armstrong World, a maker of floor coverings, nearly all fell in price. The exception was Wickes, which rose feebly, up 1/4, to 16 3/4, after reporting a quarterly loss last week.
The most active stock yesterday, at 10.9 million shares, was Intel, which has fallen for six straight sessions on a poor competitive outlook. It fell 1, to 57 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ROBERT T PARRY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



466 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: More Banks Lift Prime

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
More banks raised their prime lending rates by half a percentage point yesterday, following the lead of some of the nation's largest banks after the Federal Reserve pushed up short-term interest rates.
On Monday, Citibank, the nation's largest bank, the fourth-ranked Chemical Bank and other big banks raised their base lending rates to 6 3/4 percent from 6 1/4 percent. 
 Yesterday, Bank of America and Chase Manhattan raised their prime rates to 6 3/4 percent from 6 1/4 percent, effective immediately.
 Wells Fargo of California, Crestar Financial of Richmond and Continental Bank of Chicago announced similar moves, as did Norwest in Minneapolis.
First Union said it lifted its prime rate in three states to 6 3/4 percent from 6 1/4 percent, affecting its home state of North Carolina as well as Georgia and Florida.
Other banks raising prime rates included Comerica Bank of Detroit; Corestates Financial of Philadelphia; First Fidelity Bancorp of New York; City National Bank of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Republic National Bank of New York, and Bank South of Atlanta.
The higher lending rates are effective immediately.
The prime rate is generally regarded as the rate at which banks lend to their best commercial customers. The rate also serves as a benchmark for credit card and other consumer lending rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (91%); HSB (PAR) (91%); HBC (NYSE) (91%); 0005 (HKSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); CMA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); COMERICA INC (84%); RED RIVER BANCSHARES INC (69%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (69%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; PRIME RATE PRIME RATES (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



467 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Chrysler Profit Surges to $938 Million

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 19

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation said today that it earned record profits on record revenues in the first quarter as sales of pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles soared.
Narrowly exceeding the expectations of increasingly bullish auto industry analysts, Chrysler's earnings jumped to $938 million, or $2.55 a common share, up 77 percent from the quarter a year ago, excluding one-time charges. 
 The No. 3 auto maker's previous record profit for any quarter, $801 million, was in the second quarter of 1984.
For the quarter, Chrysler's revenue rose 21.1 percent, to $13.2 billion. The company's previous record was $12 billion, set in the fourth quarter of 1993.
 
 
Stock Falls $2.375
 But investors pummeled Chrysler shares today, along with other auto company stocks. The most heavily traded stock on the Big Board, Chrysler closed at $48.50 a share, down $2.375, perhaps a victim of great expectations. Shares of the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company also closed down in active trading on the Big Board. G.M. closed at $55.25, down $1.625, and Ford finished trading at $56.375, down $1.50.
"No failure to generate a positive earnings surprise goes unpunished," said David Healy, an auto industry analyst with S. G. Warburg in New York, who saw little bad news in Chrysler's report. "Lord knows what it would have taken to remain unchanged."
Rising interest rates may have also frightened investors in the auto stocks, although automobile executives and many industry analysts contend that rates would have to soar more than two points before crimping sales. Gary C. Valade, Chrysler's chief financial officer, said that even a 1 percent jump in rates would raise the monthly car payment on a $15,000 vehicle by only $7, an amount that he said would not deter buyers.
In the first quarter last year, Chrysler earned $530 million after taxes. But after accounting for a one-time charge for future retirees' health benefits, Chrysler lost $4.4 billion. This year, there were no special charges, the company said.
Because fierce winter weather shut down some factories, Chrysler produced fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter, Mr. Healy said. While the plants were able to operate, however, Chrysler was running them at about 111 percent of capacity -- in part by paying overtime.
"It's a struggle to produce as many popular vehicles as the market wants right now," Mr. Healy said. Chrysler reported that its dealers had already ordered almost as many trucks as it could make during the 1994 model year, which ends in August.
While production was somewhat constrained, the average pretax net profit per unit jumped 55 percent, to $1,980 in the first quarter of 1994, up from $1,280 in the first quarter of 1993 and $1,730 in the fourth quarter of 1993, Chrysler said.
In general, the growth in Chrysler's car sales trailed the industry average during the quarter. The company's car sales climbed 7.6 percent in the United States in the quarter, compared with a 15 percent jump for the industry, a lag that analysts attributed to production constraints on the new Neon subcompact.
Chrysler's light-truck sales increased 27.5 percent, compared with an industry average of 19.8 percent.
During the quarter, Chrysler gained a tenth of a point of market share in the United States, to 15.3 percent, on total vehicle sales of 565,215, the company said.
In a statement, Robert J. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive, said: "We see the steady improvement in industry sales continuing, and this, combined with the underlying strength of our car and truck business, has persuaded us to approve capacity increases and significant new hiring over the next three years."
Ford and G.M. are expected to report strong first-quarter earnings next week.
One lingering problem for Chrysler has been its failure to set aside enough cash to cover the pensions of future retirees. At the end of 1993, Chrysler had an unfinanced pension liability of $2.2 billion. During the first quarter, Chrysler set aside an additional $684 million, almost twice as much as it had planned. That puts the company ahead of its plan to finance its pensions fully by the end of 1995, Mr. Valade said.
Chrysler's cash on hand also surged in the quarter to $5.2 billion, from $3.5 billion a year earlier.
 
 
Less Money for Rebates
 As demand rose last year and new Chrysler cars and trucks appeared, the company cut its rebates and other incentives to customers. For the first quarter, the average incentive was $710, down from $970 a year earlier, but up from $650 in the fourth quarter of 1993.
Chrysler attributed the rise in incentives from late last year to its "National Mini-Van Sale." Chrysler has been offering rebates of at least $500 -- and in some cases as much as $2,600 -- on its mini-vans, to undercut the introduction of a rival van, the Windstar, by Ford. During the first quarter, that program gained Chrysler 4.1 points of mini-van market share, to 48.3 percent in the United States and Canada, according to the company.
Chrysler sold the wiring harness operations of its Acustar parts-making division on March 31. But its pretax gain on the sale of $196 million was deferred, to be recognized over five years, and so was not reflected in the first-quarter earnings.
On rising financing volume, the Chrysler Financial Corporation, Chrysler's finance arm, reported first-quarter earnings of $47 million, up from $37 million in 1993, before accounting changes.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Profitable Quarter, but a Losing Day on the Market" shows the quarterly net profits and losses for Chrysler, and the daily closes this year. (Sources: Chrysler, Datastream)
 
Table: "Chrysler Corp. (C:N)"

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	13,200,000,000	10,900,000,000	+21.1	Net inc.	938,000,000	b4,436,000,000	 	Sh. earn	2.55	(13.68)	 	
 
b-Net loss, which was after extraordinary accounting charges of $4,966,000,000, or $15.25 a share, for post-retirement health benefits and other post-employment benefits.
(Loss)
Revenue represented total sales and revenues.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$48.50
Down $2.375

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES; SALES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; REBATES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); OVERTIME (62%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (61%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



468 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Precious Metals Prices Fall On Latest Interest Rate Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Precious metals prices fell yesterday as the latest rise in American interest rates damped prospects that inflation will accelerate as the economy grows.
Prices were also pushed down after Zulu nationalists in South Africa agreed to join the country's first multiracial elections next week. South Africa is a top producer of gold and platinum. 
 Still, "the predominant thing is the higher interest rates curtailing the outlook for inflation," Leonard Kaplan, vice president with Imperial Bank in Los Angeles, said.
 
 
Gold Is Down $5.30
 Gold for June delivery, the most active futures contract, fell $5.30, to $373.20 an ounce, and May silver fell 5.5 cents, to $5.212 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange. July platinum fell $5 an ounce, to $388.60, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Commodity prices over all fell, also dimming prospects of renewed inflation. Lumber and wheat both fell, sending the Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodity prices down 1.93, to 220.21, a four-month low. Oil prices also dropped.
On Monday, the Federal Reserve pushed up short-term interest rates for the third time this year in an effort to cool inflation that comes with economic growth. Investors often buy gold when inflation threatens the value of stocks and bonds.
And the reports from South Africa that tensions had eased over next week's elections "has been read by the market as to imply there are no problems in South Africa at all any more," George Milling-Stanley, an analyst with Lehman Brothers in New York, said.
On other commodity markets, lumber prices slid, extending a 20 percent decline in the last month, amid growing concern that higher interest rates will short-circuit an expected boom in housing.
May lumber fell $7.10, to $326.90 for 1,000 board feet, on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the 15th decline in 17 trading days and the lowest price since Oct. 19.
 
 
Mortgage Rates
 Traders said they expected mortgage rates to rise further, depressing demand for new housing. Today, the Commerce Department is to report on housing starts during March.
Meanwhile, wheat futures fell to a six-month low amid perceptions that export demand is weak and that this year's crop will cover shortfalls caused by flooding last year in the Midwest. July wheat, the most actively traded contract, closed down 4.5 cents at $3.1425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Oil prices fell on speculation that supplies were rising. At the New York Mercantile Exchange, May crude oil fell 16 cents, to $16.49 a barrel, while unleaded gasoline lost 1.27 cents, to 48.80 cents a gallon, and heating oil slipped 0.86 cent, to 46.17 cents a gallon.
Today's expiration of the May crude oil contract helped push prices lower, traders said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD; PLATINUM; SILVER; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); METALS MARKETS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); FUTURES (92%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



469 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues Its Drop In Stock and Bond Volatility

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday as stock and bond prices seesawed, raising concerns about the stability of American financial markets.
Stocks slipped for a second day after the Federal Reserve raised its rate on overnight bank loans for the third time this year, while bonds recouped some of yesterday's losses. Investors sold equities amid speculation that higher rates would hobble the economy and hurt corporate earnings. 
 "As long as the Fed is raising rates, the asset markets will be under pressure, and so will the dollar," said Peter Michaels, assistant vice president at Fuji Bank.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.7005 German marks, down from 1.7080 marks on Monday, after trading as low as 1.6957 marks.
 
Little Change vs. Yen
 Speculation that the Federal Reserve bought dollars for Japanese yen on behalf of the Bank of Japan lifted the dollar from the day's lows against the Japanese currency. It was little changed at 103.20 yen, down from 103.30 yen on Monday. The Fed declined to comment on whether it was active in the market.
Higher interest rates usually buoy the dollar by making dollar-denominated assets more attractive. This year's slump in American stocks and bonds kept the dollar from following rates higher, traders said. The rate on overnight bank loans is now 3.75 percent, up from 3 percent on Feb. 4, when the Fed raised the rate for the first time in five years.
But the dollar's failure to rally after the rate increase also prompted traders to sell it against the mark.
"People sold the dollar today because buying it yesterday didn't work," said Jerry Egan, managing director of foreign exchange at MTB Bank.
Similarly, the dollar did not rise last Thursday after Germany's Bundesbank cut its discount rate to 5 percent from 5.25 percent. The discount is the lowest rate banks pay to borrow from the German central bank.
"The Bundesbank cut rates, and the Fed raised them, but the dollar fell," said Chris Widness, an international economist at the Chemical Bank. That does not bode well for the dollar, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%); MTB BANK (53%); CHEMICAL BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



470 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: AT DINNER WITH: Katarina Witt;
Firepower Off the Ice

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

 BODY:
The moment arrived during dinner at our table for two when I looked across to Katarina Witt and said, "Katarina, tell me, what kind of man do you like?"
The figure skater, who has captivated judges and spectators alike with her both sizzling and poignant programs, met my eyes. 
 "Someone who I can steal horses with," she said.
Steal horses?
"It is a German expression," she explained. "Means someone you can share everything with, that you can share all sides with. Someone that is honest, trustworthy, funny -- a little bit of everything. He doesn't have to be handsome, doesn't have to be macho man. I hate macho man. I like a man who has weakness, who can cry. Men are taught not to cry. It is so stupid."
We had finished the main course at the Union Square Cafe -- she had salmon, having decided against tuna since the nets that tuna fishermen use often snare dolphins. It is a problem that concerns her.
During dinner, other patrons walked by, looked, and then whispered to one another. Discreetly, a couple at another table stole glances. "Are you often recognized on the street?" she was asked.
"Not always," she said. "I mean, I don't walk around with my skates."
Her tartness is softened with a smile. At one point, a couple came over and the woman politely said: "We were happy to see you in the Olympics, Katarina -- you did so well. Would you sign our napkin?" Obliging, Ms. Witt said, "Thank you."
Ms. Witt said that she especially enjoyed women showing appreciation for her skating. "Too many times women try to be competitive with each other," she said. "We should help support each other, rather than try to be better than each other."
She took a sip of her cappuccino. Her brown hair was pulled back into a ponytail. Her eyes are direct, her laugh quick and full, and there also lurks the substance of a highly competitive athlete -- she has won four world figure-skating championships and two Olympic gold medals -- and a woman confident in handling herself. She wore a black turtleneck sweater with a bright Versace vest of purple and green and yellow and red, and black designer jeans.
Ms. Witt was in New York between stops of the skating show Stars on Ice, in which she performs. But she is still buoyed from her achievement at the Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway, in February.
Her performance in Lillehammer was unlike her presentations in previous Olympics. In Calgary in 1988, she skated to "Carmen" and, she admitted, "flirted my way through the program." On the ice in Lillehammer she exuded a different kind of passion when she skated to the anti-war song "Where Have All the Flowers Gone?" in the freestyle program.
Ms. Witt, at 28, is the virtual grande dame of the sport. Her stature seemed illuminated in a practice session in Lillehammer when two 16-year-old skaters, Oksana Baiul and Tanja Szewczenko, collided, and Ms. Witt hurried over to help. "I picked them up," she said, "and they were light as feathers."
In the technical program in the Lillehammer Olympics, she skated in what was for her an unusual guise. "I wore the Robin Hood -- like a man's costume -- because I didn't want to be accused of seducing the judges this time," she said. "And I like the Robin Hood character. So I wore an outfit up to my neck." She paused and, with a paradoxical smile, added: "But I think that leaves more to the imagination. Sexier than cleavage, no?"
But the freestyle program was different. Ms. Witt was the last skater to appear on the program. In her blood-red costume, before the 6,000 spectators in the arena and millions more watching on television, Ms. Witt delivered what she called her "message of peace" for war-torn Sarajevo.
It was in 1984 in Sarajevo, then a pretty, gaily-bannered town, that Ms. Witt, as an 18-year-old East German, won her first Olympic gold medal. "Now when you see the pictures on television of the people killed there, and houses bombed and children crying in pain, it breaks your heart," she said. "I wanted to say something about this. Send some message."
She had worked diligently for that opportunity in Lillehammer. "I did all those boring jumps in practice, week after week, over and over and over again," she said. "It was very hard on my body."
She knew she couldn't skate with the athleticism of some of the younger competitors. "It is a new generation of skaters," she said.
She believed, though, she could compete from an artistic standpoint. And while she felt she had little chance for a medal, she was skating, she said, for a "bigger purpose."
Though skating with customary grace, she missed the triple loop when her hand touched the ice, and turned her triple salchow into a double. When finished, she turned to the crowd with a wan smile. She spoke the words, "I am sorry." She felt she had failed. But the crowd thought otherwise; they were cheering.
"The whole building was clapping," she said. "I thought, 'Oh my God, they all understood what I wanted to say.' " She finished seventh in the competition, but was grateful for having achieved a goal.
She had come a long way from the grimness of Communist East Germany, and the sudden changes in her life precipitated by the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the end of Communism in East Germany in 1989. She had made the transition from the ice princess whom the Stasi, the East German secret police, monitored closely, to the "older, more mature" woman who now lives "spontaneously," and with, she says, "bewusst."
" 'Bewusst' is a German word, I don't know how you translate, but it is living with a full mind, that you are aware of the moment and enjoying it," she said. "When I was younger, I thought of winning the competition and going on to another. I did not fully appreciate the experiences. But when I skated in Lillehammer, I wanted to be conscious of everything I was doing, and soak it in."
For all her accomplishments, some in Germany believe that she was once a spy, some a Communist apologist, some a seeker of faded glories.
"One day my father calls me in my apartment in Berlin," Ms. Witt said, "and he says, 'Katarina, did you see the newspaper this morning?' I said no. He said, 'It says you were a spy for the Stasi.' Never! I was followed constantly. They even bugged my hotel room, and in a report, said that I had sex with an American from 9 to 9:07. I was just talking with the man in English, but people who were monitoring this didn't speak English, didn't know what to report. So they said sex. I laughed when I heard this. It was so stupid. But they had contacted me to spy. I said, 'I am no spy, I am a skater.' "
Her privileged position in East Germany sometimes resulted in her being sniped at and booed in the West. "Some said I defended the old way because I had had special advantages," she said. "Sometimes I even now feel like a stranger in my country. But I knew there would be problems because I had seen the world as a skater. And now? A lot of people in eastern Germany have lost jobs, rents went up, food costs went up, unemployment went to 20 percent. Freedom is good, but it is not easy."
At the Olympics in Lillehammer, Ms. Witt had an opportunity to observe the other skaters. About Nancy Kerrigan, she said: "She needs to learn a lot. She's now a celebrity, not just a skater. She's stepping out of sports, and she meets the yellow press, who haven't followed the sport. It happened to me. They don't know me totally like the sports writers, and don't respect what you have done. They don't look at you so much as a skater, but as a person."
Ms. Witt said she couldn't believe it when Tonya Harding made the tearful appeal about her laces to the judges at rinkside. "I thought, 'Girl, get real,' " she said. "I was not sympathetic to her. She has now had three or four incidents in competition when something breaks -- a blade, a dress, something. I know she has had a tough life, but a lot of people have had a tough life. I grew up, it wasn't a free country. I hope she gets with people who care about her, and help her make a new environment for her."
When Miss Baiul finished her freestyle program and came backstage, she was in tears. "I asked someone, 'What's wrong with Oksana?' They said, 'She just won the gold medal.' When I won the gold medal in '84 and '88, I was laughing for joy. Oksana, though, is a good skater for her age -- no, an incredible skater. But maybe she will find she will need more personality. She is so young. She can be wonderful."
Ms. Witt's life now includes activities ranging from lending her name to save endangered animals to anti-war groups, to, well, the social whirl. For awhile, she dated Richard Dean Anderson, star of the former television series "MacGyver." "But he lived in Los Angeles, I lived in Berlin, and it was very difficult," she said. Of the other men she has been linked to, like Boris Becker, the German tennis star, she said: "It was just yellow press. Not true."
As for Alberto Tomba, who first sought her attentions at the Olympics in Calgary, she recalled: "He came backstage during the skating and I didn't know who he was, but he was wearing two gold medals around his neck. It was ridiculous. Nobody wears medals to another sport. I said, 'Wow, in which sport did you win those?' It was like shooting him with a gun. He was a big Italian hero, but I am not too interested in ski sport." She laughed. "We became friends. Not romantic friends, just friends."
Ms. Witt lives for most of her non skating year in Berlin, with two roommates -- both men. "It is like something I would have done 10 years ago, if I was in college and not skating and the Government would have allowed it," she said. "We are just friends, these guys, and when I'm not training, I'm going to the ballet, or a concert, or the movies. Like normal people."
She has also been looking for a part-time apartment in Manhattan and thinks she's found one overlooking Central Park. "You wouldn't believe the view -- spectacular, right above the trees," she said.
A platter of cookies arrived at the table and Ms. Witt broke off a piece of the lone chocolate chip cookie -- only a piece, ever mindful of her figure.
Over the last few years, she has skated in touring shows -- her television version of "Carmen" with Brian Boitano won an Emmy -- and has done figure-skating commentary on television. She plans to skate in shows for perhaps two more years. Then?
"I have some things on the table," she said cryptically. "I will let you know."
Ms. Witt says she will now leave the competitive stage to the younger skaters. "I don't want to compete," she said. "I want to skate for the joy. I get so nervous in competition. I get always sick. I had pressures enough in my life from skating."
She retains ambitions, to be sure, and dreams. "I want to see sunrises in the mountains," she said. "You never get to see such things enough in a lifetime. I want to see more.
"But right now, in the show I'm in, one of the programs I skate is my Sarajevo message, and the crowds go bananas. I know this is maybe naive, but one day I hope will be peace in the world. Maybe one day the flowers will come back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Katarina Witt. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg C1); Katarina Witt now skates in the show "Stars on Ice." (Alfred Harder/Sipa) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: NORWAY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST GERMANY; NORWAY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; FIGURE SKATING ICE SKATING (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); FINFISH FISHING (68%); 

PERSON: WITT, KATARINA; WITT, KATARINA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); BERKOW, IRA KATARINA WITT (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



471 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Reviews/Music;
Old, Old Orchestra Steps Out With a New Face

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
When the Dresden Staatskapelle went on its first concert tour, Shakespeare was 11 years old and Kepler had yet to discover the laws of planetary motion. But the orchestra's current tour, in more mundane times, is no mere road trip. It is the Dresden's first visit to the United States with its current music director, Giuseppe Sinopoli; it is also an attempt to reaffirm the orchestra's achievements as it adjusts to life in post-Communist Germany.
So there was a certain gravity to its first concert in Carnegie Hall on Monday night (its second was last night). The curious thing was that though the Dresden is probably the oldest organized group of musicians in the world, it seemed to be seeking its voice. In fact, under Mr. Sinopoli's direction the orchestra sounded much less experienced and coherent than either the Vienna or the Berlin Philharmonic, merely striplings by comparison, which have also passed through town in recent months. 
 Of course, there was that characteristic Middle European string tone -- sleek and warm -- and a love of legato that seems to be an infallible sign of long performing traditions in Europe. But Brahms's Second Symphony seemed in need of polish. The Allegretto lacked both the pristine attacks that can give that movement an edge and the supple dance pulse Brahms emphasized with his grace notes. The horns and woodwinds sounded a bit thin-bodied and overly exposed, as if they had not yet worked out textures and balances for their chordal proclamations. Even in a much more impressive performance of Schoenberg's "Verklarte Nacht," the interpretation had a detachment that made for a peculiar evening of music making.
It was impossible to sense in these sounds the imposing tradition of an orchestra founded in 1548. Heinrich Schutz was once Dresden's music director. So were Wagner and Fritz Reiner, Praetorius and Herbert von Karajan. Beethoven referred to theDresden orchestra as the best in Europe; so did Jean Jacques Rousseau. As the orchestra of the Dresden State Opera, the ensemble also presented premieres of "Tannhauser," "Salome," "Elektra" and many works that have been lost to the changing tastes of previous centuries.
There was some fear, a few years ago, that the orchestra's great heritage would fall prey to the changing economy in a united Germany; players' wages were then just 60 percent of their colleagues' from former West German terrain. But an orchestra spokesman said only 15 players had been replaced during the last five years and the comparative wage level had risen to about 80 percent. The tradition has not been seriously disrupted.
So some responsibility for the playing has to be placed at the baton of Mr. Sinopoli. He is so clearly an intelligent musician, so intent on stripping away expressive excess and so interested in laying bare the procedures at work in a composition that it was exasperating when he showed fragments of skeletons without putting the flesh back on them.
Mr. Sinopoli was trained as a doctor and a psychiatrist before becoming a composer and conductor, and he has said that he seeks to make sense out of music's psychological complexities. There are times -- in his recordings of Bruckner, for example -- when he gives coherence to unusual contrasts and sudden shifts in character.
But somehow the Brahms symphony lost all of its mystery under the light of this kind of examination; the music's contrasting timbres and its accumulation of themes seemed almost commonplace. There actually seemed to be less detail because everything assumed the same importance. The approach worked better in "Verklarte Nacht," an unimpeachably neurotic work. For here the swells and gentle attacks of the strings had an almost organic quality. And Mr. Sinopoli gave the phrases the character of hushed, melancholic dialogue. There was not much transfiguration, but that seemed to be Mr. Sinopoli's choice: he was presenting a portrait rather than a drama.
As for the orchestra itself, it seems to be in a time of transition that one day may be remembered as just a passing instant in a distinguished history. (Chris Lee)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Giuseppe Sinopoli conducting the Dresden Staatskapelle on Monday night during a concert at Carnegie Hall. (Chris Lee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: DRESDEN STAATSKAPELLE CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRESDEN STAATSKAPELLE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); OPERA (69%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; SINOPOLI, GIUSEPPE GIUSEPPE SINOPOLI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



472 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
G.E.'s Bright New Idea: A Seven-Year Light Bulb

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
A long-life household light bulb designed to last about seven years in normal use will soon reach the market, the General Electric Company's lighting division said yesterday.
The bulb, known in the industry as an E-lamp because it uses electronic controls, will go on sale in Europe within weeks and in the United States before the end of the year, G.E. said. 
 Producing the light of a 75-watt regular incandescent bulb but consuming only 23 watts of power, the household version of G.E.'s Genura E-lamp will probably be priced around $20 at retail in the United States, the company said.
 
Decades in Development
 The technology, called a compact-reflector lamp, has been in development for decades, and smaller companies have attempted to bring versions to the market over the years. But G.E.'s introduction is the first by a company with mass-market reach.
"The concept has been around for a long time," said John E. Breen, vice president for technology at G.E. lighting. "The problem was to turn it into a reality. We have had a lot of breakthroughs in the past nine months to make this happen."
Although E-lamps look similar to common incandescent bulbs, they work much differently. An incandescent provides light by forcing electric power through a thin wire filament until it glows brightly.
The E-lamp has no filament. Instead, electronic components in the base convert ordinary household current into high-frequency power that is fed to an electrical coil. The coil excites a gas in the bulb to make invisible ultraviolet light, which a phospher coating inside the bulb, similar to the inner coating of a fluorescent lamp, converts into visible light.
The advantages of the E-lamp are supposed to be its low electricity consumption and long life -- about 10,000 hours, in ordinary use, G.E. said. That would be about 10 times the life of a standard bulb. G.E. officials said the E-lamp technology was still evolving and that it might be possible to double or triple the bulbs' operating lives.
Unlike compact fluorescent lights that have been developed as an economical, low-energy alternative to incandescent bulbs, the E-lamp is about the same size and shape as a conventional bulb. This means it will fit into lamps too small for the longer fluorescent bulbs.
 
Spotlight to Be First
 The first model E-lamp will be a reflector spotlight for use in commercial applications, where the cost of changing bulbs is a substantial expense. Household sizes are expected to be introduced subsequently.
The Genura E-lamp bulbs will be manufactured at a plant in Nagykanizsa, Hungary, which G.E. acquired in 1990 when it purchased the Tungsram Company, one of Hungary's largest industrial companies.
G.E., with annual sales of $60 billion, traces its corporate history to 1878, when Thomas A. Edison established the Edison Electric Light Company, based largely on his invention of the light bulb. It was renamed General Electric in 1892.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The electronically controlled E-lamp is designed to last seven years. A bulb equal to a 75-watt incandescent light will cost about $20. (General Electric)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT BULBS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; PRICES ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



473 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Way to Control Spending

 BODY:
An "entitlement cap" -- putting a tight ceiling on spending for huge programs like Social Security and food stamps -- has been approved by the Senate in an amendment now before House-Senate conferees. Though non-binding, the vote is nonetheless important because the idea is gathering political momentum. It is likely to come up for a vote in the House later this year and be reviewed by a bipartisan commission that will report to the President by Dec. 1.
The impetus for the cap is understandable. Entitlement spending is the fastest-growing part of the Federal budget. But a cap is ill advised. The one embraced by the Senate would apply a hatchet where a scalpel would do better. The misdirected whacks would knock out health-care bills that promise universal coverage and needlessly threaten programs that are not pushing up the deficit. 
 Entitlement programs pay benefits to eligible applicants according to established formulas. Under the 1993 deficit reduction law, they are permitted to grow with impunity as long as Congress does not alter the underlying formulas that govern them. Indeed, they are the only programs that are expected to rise quickly over the next several years.
Just two entitlements, Medicaid and Medicare, account for almost all the projected increases in the deficit. All other entitlements are expected to stay relatively constant over the next 10 years. The way to fix the deficit is thus to pass health care reform -- not blindly chop every entitlement in sight.
Under the cap, sponsored by Senators Sam Nunn and Pete Domenici, entitlement spending would be allowed to rise along with inflation and natural increases in the number of eligible beneficiaries. If spending exceeded the caps, entitlements other than Social Security would be cut back.
A perverse fallout is that health-care reform would be ruled out. Universal coverage costs a lot of money. President Clinton would raise part of the money with taxes. But under the Nunn-Domenici cap, entitlement spending could not exceed pre-set caps no matter how much revenue Congress was willing to raise.
Because health-care costs are spiraling, Medicare and Medicaid costs are doing the same. That problem calls for a targeted solution. A broad assault on all entitlements is unwarranted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); MEDICAID (68%); 

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



474 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: One Mexican, One Honest Vote

BYLINE: By Bernard Aronson; Bernard Aronson was Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs from June 1989 through July 1993.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The most critical challenge facing Mexico is to insure that the presidential election in August is considered legitimate.
A crisis of confidence in the election could lead to significant capital flight and pressure on the peso, putting economic recovery at risk. If the election is deemed fraudulent, moreover, the implicit threat of renewed civil violence, present since the Zapatista rebellion in Chiapas in January, could materialize. 
 Finally, the next president must lead the nation through simultaneous economic and political revolutions. Their outcome will determine Mexico's future. He cannot succeed if his mandate to govern is permanently in doubt.
Coincidentally, both revolutions, though gathering force for years, were launched formally on Jan. 1. On that day, the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect and the Zapatista rebellion erupted in Chiapas, the poorest state. Ironically, both have been propelled by the pioneering reforms of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's administration.
Mexico's long-term bet is that Nafta -- and the open-market reforms the treaty institutionalizes -- will attract the foreign investment necessary to modernize quickly enough to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population, half of which is under 25. Already in the first two months of 1994, foreign investment has increased 143 percent. And Mexico just became the first Latin American country to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
But integration into the global economy will also accelerate the social dislocation that rapid modernization inevitably brings to a developing economy. More then 25 percent of the population still makes its living from agriculture; many barely subsist on unproductive, quasi-collective farms that cannot compete with U.S. agriculture.
As tariffs on U.S. farm products fall, the inevitable migration of millions of rural Mexicans to the overburdened cities will accelerate. This will create new demands for clean water, sanitation, housing, electricity and urban employment. This economic and social transformation cannot be managed successfully within Mexico's traditional political order.
The Chiapas uprising started as a local, indigenous rebellion. It soon touched, and came to symbolize, widespread popular demands for greater democratization. To insure stability, Mexico must evolve rapidly from a one-party system dominated by a powerful president into a full-fledged multiparty democracy with an independent congress, judiciary, and state and local governments.
The governing and opposition parties have agreed on reforms to strengthen the independence of the Federal Electoral Institute, which organizes national elections, and to commission an independent audit of voter rolls. And Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon, the candidate of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, called this weekend for greater democratization of the political system. Still, deep distrust remains because of past election irregularities, including suspicions left over from the 1988 election. And dangers loom.
The old guard of the PRI, threatened by the Salinas reforms, may try to preserve the option of fraud if they fear their party will lose the presidency. Even if the elections are honest, radical forces in the opposition may cry "fraud!" if they lose. Unless refuted persuasively, such charges will be like dropping lighted matches into political gasoline.
A door to a solution was opened when the Government and opposition agreed, for the first time, to invite foreign observers -- or "visitors," as they are called. The Congress, which met yesterday on electoral reforms, is expected to endorse this initiative soon. Mexico needs more than a group of "notables" arriving on election day. As soon as possible, it needs to establish an agreed-upon process of international oversight that will guarantee the electoral rules, mediate grievances and build legitimacy into the process each step of the way.
The United Nations, the Organization of American States or both are best equipped to play such a role. If their presence cannot be negotiated, an independent group -- Mexican, international or mixed -- should be selected by the political parties and given the mandate, funds and technical means to scrutinize the electoral process and make a final judgment.
The United States must come down squarely -- but carefully -- in support of democratization. If Washington appears overbearing, it will touch off a nationalist reaction that will make it more difficult for Mexicans to press for a political opening.
The Clinton Administration must not give the electoral process an uncritical stamp of approval out of deference to the Government. Nor should powerful figures in our Congress imply falsely that only the defeat of the PRI will prove the election legitimate. Instead, the U.S. should strongly support independent oversight and make it clear privately that our judgment of the outcome will be decisively guided by the observers' verdict.
Mexico's turmoil represents the birth pangs of a complex and proud developing nation struggling to enter the 21st century as a modern democracy. The U.S. can neither dictate the outcome of the twin revolutions nor remain aloof from them. Striking the proper balance is the principal challenge in our policy toward Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ZAPATISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (MEXICO) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZAPATISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (MEXICO) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TRENDS (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ARONSON, BERNARD CARLOS SALINAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



475 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON SUPPORTS WIDER AIR STRIKES AGAINST THE SERBS

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
President Clinton today approved a proposal for the wider use of NATO air power to protect Gorazde and other United Nations-designated "safe areas" in Bosnia and Herzegovina, senior Administration officials said. They said the President had directed his advisers to begin consulting immediately with European allies.
The United States will also explore ways to tighten economic sanctions against Serbia, which is supplying the Bosnian Serbs who are threatening Gorazde, the officials added. The harder look at sanctions comes even as the Russians and Europeans are calling for a meeting with the United States and the United Nations on a timetable for eventually lifting them. 
 And in a concession to the Europeans and the Russians, who have sought a larger role in devising a peace plan for Bosnia, the Administration has agreed to discuss the merits of a high-level international conference and a more coordinated approach.
In Bosnia, the Serbs seized weapons today from a United Nations-guarded site, but returned most of them after threats from Moscow. [Page A13.]
The proposal for broader air strikes will begin to be discussed informally at a regular weekly meeting of NATO representatives in Brussels on Wednesday and will be formally presented as part of a package of military and diplomatic initiatives to the North Atlantic Council, NATO's governing body, in the next few days. It calls for NATO to demand that the Serbs withdraw heavy weapons from an area around five of the six Muslim enclaves -- Gorazde, Srebrenica, Tuzla, Zepa and Bihac -- or face punitive air strikes, just as they did in the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, after NATO issued a similar ultimatum.
The situation in the sixth enclave, Sarajevo, and how to enhance NATO protection there will also be reviewed.
Gorazde may be treated as a special case under the proposal, because Gorazde is in imminent danger of falling to the Serbs. But even some senior Administration officials were unclear about whether that meant that the United States would push an urgent plan to save the town of 65,000 people or essentially regarded it as a lost cause.
Bosnia's Prime Minister, Haris Silajdzic, telephoned Secretary of State Warren Christopher today to tell him that NATO must take "immediate and decisive action" to prevent a massacre in Gorazde, which he said might fall tonight, Bosnian officials said. Mr. Christopher reportedly offered no assurance that help was on the way, telling Mr. Silajdzic that he would convey the message to Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Clinton declined today to spell out exactly what the new plan would entail, but he told reporters that his extensive discussions with his advisers today had dwelled on "exactly how" the allies should enlist more military force to put pressure on the Serbs. He said he and his aides had also reviewed "whether the other NATO allies would be willing to do it and what the ups and downs would be and what else we could do to get this thing going."
 
A Shift in U.S. Policy
 The proposal for broadening the air strikes is a shift in American policy toward Bosnia and reflects the Administration's response to sharp criticism over NATO's failure to halt the Serbian offensive against Gorazde. NATO has made two largely symbolic air strikes near Gorazde in response to requests by United Nations commanders as a means of slowing the fighting and coaxing the Serbs back to peace talks. The strikes were too modest to make an impression on the Serbs, who continued their assault on the town.
The White House wants to find a way to revive a peace initiative that has been frozen by Serbian intransigence and to restore the credibility of American leadership without getting drawn into a complicated ethnic war.
The United States is limited in how much it can ask NATO to do in Bosnia. Mr. Clinton has refused to send American peacekeeping troops to Bosnia, saying he did not want Americans to be involved in a "shooting gallery." Last month the United States opposed a United Nations request for full financing of 8,500 additional non-American troops.
But on Monday, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali asked NATO to authorize air strikes to protect all the safe areas in Bosnia. The American proposal will build on Mr. Boutros-Ghali's proposal, senior Administration officials said.
 
NATO Has Acted Narrowly
 Although NATO already has the technical authority to stage air strikes against Serbian forces to protect the Bosnian enclaves, so far it has acted only narrowly, to protect United Nations peacekeepers. Senior Administration officials have said they believe that it is politically necessary for NATO to give formal approval to an expanded mandate.
In a letter on Monday to the NATO Secretary General, Manfred Worner, Mr. Boutros-Ghali proposed a broadening of the basis for using force to prevent attacks against civilians.
But in military terms it is still a relatively narrow tactical rather than strategic approach, both with regard to what military targets can be hit and what geographical areas can be included. Strikes would be limited to the safe areas, and targets would be restricted to artillery, mortars and tanks, not secondary targets like supply lines, command centers, ammunition dumps and communications installations.
But Administration officials suggested that they would like to see a broader use of air strikes that might involve some strategic targets.
On the diplomatic front, the United States is eager to seize upon Russia's deep humiliation over winning Serbian cease-fire pledges only to be double-crossed. The Administration hopes to devise a high-level approach with Moscow that might help press the Serbs to return to the negotiating table.
 
Yeltsin Urges Summit Talks
 With Russia's leaders joining the West in condemning Serbian aggression, Mr. Clinton told reporters that he was "intrigued" by a proposal by President Boris N. Yeltsin to hold a summit meeting of Russian, American and European leaders aimed at bringing an end to the two-year-old war.
"It deserves serious consideration, and I want to discuss it with him and with the other nations that would be involved," Mr. Clinton said.
The United States consistently rejected earlier Russian suggestions for such a meeting, both to keep Russia on the periphery of the policy and to avoid engaging in a high-profile meeting that might not produce a unified and decisive approach.
Later in the day, senior White House and State Department officials said Mr. Clinton was not considering a meeting of heads of state.
 
Clinton Just 'Being Polite'
 "I think what the President was doing was being polite," a senior Administration official said. "This is something you can only do once at the heads of state level. I don't think anyone believes this is the moment to do it when we're so far away from a peace agreement."
Officials added that American attention to Russian and French proposals for an international conference would during the next few days remain secondary to the efforts to win approval from the Europeans for wider NATO attacks.
The Yeltsin idea was also met with skepticism by other NATO governments. "To be successful it has to be well prepared," Spain's Foreign Minister, Javier Solana, said in a telephone interview from Madrid. His country has 1,500 troops in Bosnia. He added, "We can't risk that it would fail."
Mr. Christopher telephoned the French Foreign Minister, Alain Juppe, today to ask him about the French view, senior French officials in Paris said.
Mr. Juppe, who was the architect of the initiative on safe areas, told Mr. Christopher that his Government strongly supports the use of more aggressive air strikes to protect the besieged enclaves.
 
Britain and Canada Reluctant
 By contrast, officials of Britain and Canada expressed reluctance to authorize NATO air strikes to protect all six safe areas in Bosnia.
The tougher American position comes amid calls by a number of key Democratic lawmakers to use more American air power -- but not commit American troops -- to press the Serbs on the battlefield and persuade them to return to the negotiating table.
"It's time to use the full weight of U.S. and NATO warplanes in Bosnia," said the House Democratic Whip, David E. Bonior of Michigan. "It's time to pound the Bosnian Serbs into submission."
Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said: "I think almost certainly you have to have a more robust reaction by NATO and the United Nations here. There's been a real humiliation of both organizations, and we simply cannot take the kind of brutality that we have seen from the Serbs in Gorazde without some kind of response."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about developments in Bosnia referred incorrectly in some editions to a United Nations headquarters struck by Serbian artillery fire. It was in the eastern town of Gorazde, not in the capital, Sarajevo.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "ASSESSMENT: Rethinking Policy in Bosnia"
 
POLICY -- NATO BOMBING
 Current Status: NATO has agreed to launch air strikes to protect U.N. operations in Bosnia, and to enforce a ban on heavy weapons near Sarajevo.
 Proposed Change: United Nations has asked NATO to agree to air strikes to protect all six "safe areas" in Bosnia, not just Sarajevo.
 Position on Proposed Change:
 United States supports change.
 France supports change.
 Britain skeptical.
 Germany skeptical.
 Canada opposes change.
 Russia may be easing its strong opposition.
 
POLICY -- SANCTIONS AGAINST THE SERBS:
 Current Status: United Nations embargo on trade with Yugoslavia, except for food and medicine.
 Proposed Change: Phased easing of sanctions linked to cooperation by Serbia, which dominates Yugoslavia, in ending Bosnian war.
 Position on Proposed Change:
 United States opposes change.
 France supports change.
 Britain supports change.
 Germany supports change.
 Canada opposes change.
 Russia supports change.
 
POLICY -- ARMS EMBARGO
 Current Status: United Nations embargo on arms deliveries to Serbian, Croatian or Bosnian forces.
 Proposed Change: Lift embargo on Bosnian Government so it can compete on a more equal basis with better-armed Serbian forces.
 Position on Proposed Change:
 United States supports change.
 France opposes change.
 Britain opposes change.
 Germany opposes change.
 Canada opposes change.
 Russia opposes change. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); UNITED NATIONS (UN) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); UNITED NATIONS (UN) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; RUSSIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; ; GORAZDE (BOSNIA); ; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); APPROVALS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1994



476 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Toys Now, Computers Tomorrow?

BYLINE: By John Markoff, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: San Francisco, April 19

 BODY:
Will video-game machines be the supercomputers of tomorrow? Or, put another way, will Microsoft's software hegemony be supplanted by Sonic the Hedgehog software?
 Questions of that sort are troubling some computer designers and executives, who are wondering whether the personal computer industry may be ripe for a fall -- soon to be overtaken by $250 video-game players and computerized boxes for the television set-top. Consumer devices that Nintendo, Sega and Sony plan to introduce over the next year will outstrip the processing power of the fastest desktop computers from Apple and I.B.M., and the speediest personal-computer chips from Intel and Motorola.
 Most personal computer makers scoff at the notion that they could be unseated by such consumer gadgets.
 'The personal computer industry isn't going to slow down any time soon,' said Bob Metcalfe, publisher of Infoworld, a personal computer newspaper. 'They're all in the business of slitting each others' throats while performance skyrockets.'
 But some industry experts recall the hubris of the big mainframe computer companies 15 years ago. In those days, most mainframe giants dismissed the PC as a hacker's toy unsuitable for business use -- only to watch brash new personal computer makers win the hearts and desktops of Corporate America and a college dropout from Seattle named Bill Gates ascend to the industry summit.
 Most mainframe makers have since failed or withdrawn from the field, and the remaining leader, the International Business Machines Corporation, is making money from its PC's while trying to wring profits from a mainframe business that seems to be drying up quickly. But now, personal computer makers may be no more able to take advantage of the fastest computing technologies than were mainframe computer vendors a decade ago.
 'I'm struck by the quandary personal computer makers are in,' said Howard Lincoln, chairman of Nintendo of America. His company plans next year to offer its $250 Project Reality video-game player, which will surpass the computing performance of even the most powerful personal computers. Besides games with interactive, TV-quality video and sound, the Project Reality player will also act as a communications device, over cable television networks.
 And in terms of its ability to manipulate large amounts of data, the Project Reality player will be able to operate more powerfully than the original Cray 1 supercomputer, which astounded the computing world with its speed in 1976.
 'If you put something this powerful and this cheap in the market,' Mr. Lincoln said, 'what happens to everybody else?'
 
Applications Raised Demand
 Demand in the personal computer industry was heightened by the creation of new applications -- spreadsheets, word processing, electronic mail; it did not simply take over old mainframe functions like payroll processing and customer billing. And now consumer electronics companies, which have already sold millions of video-game machines, are developing systems that they hope will soon offer a broad range of consumer applications for which personal computers hold no particular edge. And this home market is potentially much larger than the $66 billion annual market for personal computers.
 'This is the last frontier,' said Jim Clark, the former chairman of Silicon Graphics Inc., a leading maker of powerful computer-graphics work stations that can cost $10,000 or more. Mr. Clark recently left Silicon Graphics to form his own company, which is seeking alliances with consumer electronics companies to make computerized devices that would sell for a few hundred dollars. 'We're talking about creating true consumer computers,' he said.
 These new consumer machines go beyond being faster and cheaper to represent a much more fundamental transformation.
 'The trend is for the fastest to also be the smallest and cheapest,' said John Moussouris, cofounder of Microunity, Inc., a Silicon Valley chip maker. 'This will continue to disrupt the computer industry to a greater degree than the auto disrupted the horse and buggy, or the calculator disrupted the slide rule.'
 Personal computer executives deny that the new class of video-game machines and set-top 'interactive TV' players will be a threat, contending that they are highly specialized machines without the flexibility of the personal computers and without the range of software applications that suits PC's for a variety of professional, home-office and leisure activities.
 But the new technology renegades say that increasingly, like its mainframe predecessor, the personal computer industry is too bound to its huge installed base of products to make radical shifts toward new technology. Indeed, today's personal computer industry is even more wedded to a narrow set of 'architectures' than was the mainframe business.
 There were seven competitors to I.B.M. in the 1960's and 1970's; today there are only two basic personal computer designs: machines based on Intel chips and Microsoft operating systems, and machines based on Apple Computer designs.
 Today's consumer-oriented computing devices, by contrast, are free to follow where computing technology wants to lead. In the past computers were used almost exclusively for calculation and control. Now a new wave of computing is shifting the focus to communications. Supercomputing power is being harnessed to make home machines simple to use and to make it easier for people to communicate with each other through video, sound and data.
 
Long Learning Curve
 That will represent a departure from the personal computer, which despite great strides toward 'user friendliness,' still requires considerable time and effort to learn to use.
 'The conventional computer industry is going to be the funky, behind-the-times part of the business,' said Charles Ferguson, a consultant based in Cambridge, Mass.
 He predicts that the transition will present a new opportunity for Asian electronics giants. 'The design and software will be overwhelmingly America,' he said. 'But it's also going to be the Japanese and Koreans who will manufacture this stuff.'
 Also helping drive computing into the consumer-products realm is the inexorable trend in chip technology. For more than three decades, the number of transistors squeezed onto a single silicon chip has doubled approximately every 18 months. In the 1970's the world's fastest computers had more than 100,000 chips; by the end of the 1990's the fastest machine will be on a single chip.
 All of this can make for strange chip fellows. Several years ago, when designers at Kendall Square Research, the supercomputer maker, set about manufacturing their newest processor chip, they chose the same Sharp Electronics factory line in Japan that produces the control chips for the Sharp Wizard 'personal organizer' which sells for less than $500.
 And currently, looking to stay at the top of the supercomputer race, Cray Research has secretly turned to Microunity to provide microprocessors for its fastest massively parallel supercomputers. But Cray will have to share the chips with makers of television set-top boxes and videophones. Microunity's superchip is planned to execute a billion operations a second, more than 10 times Intel's fastest Pentium processor.
 On the software side, economics seems to be pulling toward the consumer market. In 1993 Sonic the Hedgehog II, the standard bearer for Sega's line of home video games was a $400 million software best seller, dwarfing almost all of the most popular business software titles for personal computers.
 Does this mean that the likes of NBA Jam will be the 'killer application' of the 90's, as Lotus 1-2-3 was for personal computing in the 80's? It is too early to say.
 But certainly, big money-makers like these are providing the financial wherewithal for creating a new industry, said Bruce Lupatkin, a financial analyst at Hambrecht & Quist, a San Francisco-based investment firm.
 'The next 10 years in computing,' Mr. Lupatkin said, 'are going to be driven by automating the consumer experience.'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Lincoln, chairman of Nintendo of America, which plans to offer a $250 Project Reality game player that will rival the most powerful personal computers, in the F.A.O. Schwarz store in Manhattan yesterday. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) Table: 'The Faster the Cheaper' shows the increase of processing speed and the decrease of prices. (Sources: Company reports; The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); APPLE COMPUTER INC; INTEL CORP; MOTOROLA INC ; NINTENDO CO; SEGAL CO; SONY CORPORATION OF AMERICA INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); APPLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC (53%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); APPLE COMPUTER INC; INTEL CORP; MOTOROLA INC ; NINTENDO CO; SEGAL CO; SONY CORPORATION OF AMERICA NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; PERSONAL COMPUTERS; COMPUTER CHIPS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN & PRODUCTS; VIDEO GAMES; TELEVISION ; VIDEO GAMES; CABLE TELEVISION PERSONAL COMPUTERS (97%); COMPUTER MAKERS (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1994



477 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Defense Chief Says North Korea Could Soon Build 4 A-Bombs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Thursday, April 21

 BODY:
Secretary of Defense William Perry said this morning that North Korea was "within weeks" of removing enough fuel from its largest nuclear reactor to make four or five new nuclear weapons. He added that "it is critical" that international inspectors be permitted into the country to monitor the operation.
For more than a year American officials have been closely watching the reactor, fearful that a new harvest of spent fuel could give the North the raw material to turn the few weapons it may now possess into a much larger arsenal. 
 Inspectors who were allowed into North Korea last month for a partial inspection of the sites said the North was adding capacity to its reprocessing plant, which would convert the spent fuel into weapons-grade plutonium.
Mr. Perry did not say what kind of evidence United States officials have to make them think that the removal of the fuel is imminent. But replacing the fuel rods in the reactor would require shutting the site down, and that could be observed by surveillance satellites.
Mr. Perry's comments came on the second day of a tour to inspect American military readiness in South Korea. And while he warned of the long-term nuclear threat, he and the usually hawkish-sounding South Korean Defense Ministry made a clearly orchestrated effort to lower the level of threatening rhetoric.
"This is a time of high political tension, but I want to emphasize that there is not high military tension," he said this morning. "There is no imminent danger of a military conflict on the Korean Peninsula."
"The U.S. will not provoke a war by any rash act," he said, but he added that it would also not "invite a war" by "showing a lack of commitment to South Korea."
Mr. Perry's visit coincides with the arrival here of Patriot antimissile batteries to protect American air bases from North Korea's growing arsenal. While the South Korean Government has officially welcomed the arrival of the weapons, they have been a hot political issue in Seoul, with opposition parties and student demonstrators denouncing their arrival as a provocation to the North Korean Government of Kim Il Sung.
In recent days, both South Korea and the United States have gradually scaled back the demands they have made to the North, in hopes of creating a face-saving way for Mr. Kim to allow inspectors into the country and move ahead with another round of high-level talks with the United States. American officials have said that those talks, which have been delayed since last summer because of the North's refusal to submit to even a limited inspection of nuclear sites, would lay out a package of economic and diplomatic incentives for the North if it halts its nuclear program.
South Korea has dropped a demand that the North move ahead with an exchange of envoys on the nuclear issue before talks with Washington proceed.
On Wednesday, Mr. Perry and South Korean officials also said they would delay, until at least next November, the staging of this year's military exercises. South Korean officials have said that the exercises are more useful as a carrot than as a training maneuver, but the offer to suspend the exercises has been dangled before, to little avail.
The removal of fuel from the North's 25-megawatt reactor -- a 200 megawatt reactor is scheduled to go into operation next year -- is a critical step because it is the International Atomic Energy Agency's only chance to measure exactly how much nuclear material the North possesses.
The last batch of North Korean fuel was removed several years ago, and because inspectors were not present the United States can only guess about how much nuclear material North Korea now has. Mr. Perry repeated his estimate today that "it was enough to do one or two bombs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); MILITARY BASES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); POLITICS (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (52%); 

PERSON: PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E WILLIAM PERRY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



478 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS PRESS FOR A COMPROMISE ON CHINESE TRADE

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The leading Democratic advocates of a tough policy toward China are working with the White House on a compromise that would include limited sanctions but allow a considerable amount of trade to continue if China fails to meet all the human rights objectives laid down by the Administration.
This approach could be critical in helping President Clinton find a face-saving way to salvage his China policy. The President is reluctant to choke off commerce with the world's fastest-growing economy by totally withdrawing Beijing's most-favored-nation trade status. But he is equally loath to back down on his threat to do so if China does not satisfy the human rights demands the Administration set as its condition for renewal of the trade status on June 3. 
 The use of limited sanctions has become the centerpiece of the new debate on China.
The debate is no longer primarily between those who want to withdraw all trade benefits, which allow Chinese goods to enter the United States with the lowest possible tariffs, and those who want to renew them unconditionally.
It is now between those who would renew China's trade privileges while also imposing some sanctions to keep the pressure on Beijing, and those who would renew the privileges while looking for other ways to influence Beijing.
China gained most-favored-nation trade status during the Carter Administration. Its exports to the United States reached $33 billion last year, and it imported $9 billion worth of goods from the United States, yielding Beijing a surplus of $24 billion.
It is a measure of how seriously the Administration takes the debate that Mr. Clinton, in between all his meetings today on Bosnia, met with the leaders of both sides of the debate.
In the morning, he conferred with those ready to consider limited sanctions -- the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine; the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, and Representative Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco. In the afternoon he met with the proponents of non-trade sanctions, led by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana.
The Democratic lawmakers clearly do not want to put Mr. Clinton in a corner or end all trade with China, a move that would harm both American businesses and the Chinese reform process, which depends in part on such trade. They also recognize, as do many Administration officials, that China might make progress on some issues while falling far short on others.
As a result, many of the important voices who had been advocating a blanket revocation of China's trade status are now ready to consider a more nuanced approach.
"There has definitely been a shift," said Mike Jendrzejczyk, the Washington director of Human Rights Watch/ Asia, an organization that monitors human rights violations. "Even before Secretary of State Warren Christopher's disastrous trip to Beijing, the Administration realized that they might not succeed in getting China to fully meet the conditions of the President's executive order. Therefore, there was a need for partial sanctions to be imposed, if there was only partial progress in meeting the conditions."
"This would maintain the President's credibility," he said. "The alternative would be for the President to lie, and exaggerate the progress, or totally revoke M.F.N., which he doesn't want to do."
 
The Chinese Dig In
 The need for an alternative has become even more urgent as China's position has become entrenched since Mr. Christopher's trip. What Mr. Clinton is now hearing from the Democrats who strongly support him is that they would be willing to go along with this alternative strategy.
"They don't want to hurt Clinton or appear soft on human rights," Mr. Jendrzejczyk said. "It is a way to get everyone off the hook. It also may be more effective. It is doable.
"The Chinese would pay a price for continuing human rights violation, and it gives the Administration maneuvering room for a longer-term strategy. Targeted sanctions also have more credibility since it is much more likely that they would be used than a blanket revocation of M.F.N."
Mr. Gephardt said in an interview that there was still time for China to meet the President's demands, but if it fell short, maybe there should be an extension of the trade benefits "with conditions." For example, trade benefits for state industries could be revoked, while private enterprises could keep them.
The idea, Mr. Gephardt said, is to try to find some way that would keep the pressure on the Beijing Government "but not totally removing M.F.N. so there can be no trade."
 
'A Real Answer'
 Since it is clear that China is now in flux, and may meet some American conditions by June 3, Mr. Gephardt said, United States policy may also be in transition for a while.
Ms. Pelosi said: "I would hope that President Clinton would consider targeted revocation of M.F.N. as another option. Among those in our Congressional working group on China, we are reviewing the options, ranging from total revocation to targeted revocation.
"One view that is emerging is that we could recommend revocation that is targeted to products made by the Chinese military, as well as targeting other products which are for the most part made by the state sectors. The United States has an opportunity to initiate sanctions which impact the Chinese Government the most, the Chinese private sector to a lesser degree and the American consumer the least."
Lawmakers and Administration officials say limited sanctions could be a legal and administrative nightmare. Nevertheless, they are now studying several paths. One method would be to use the recently revived Super 301 trade law, which empowers the President to impose trade sanctions on a country, a specific sector of that country's exports or a particular product, if the country is engaged in an "unreasonable denial of worker rights."
Senator Baucus's counterproposal assumes China will somehow meet the President's demands that it account for political prisoners and the use of prison labor, stop jamming foreign radio broadcasts and allow freer emigration. If it does, he argues, the Administration and Congress should permanently renew most-favored-nation status for China and then seek a long-term alternative to the annual threat of sanctions, which no one really wants to carry out.
 
Senator's Other Proposal
 He proposes sending more diplomats to China to monitor human rights and meeting more frequently with dissidents there, enforcing United States restrictions on imports of prison-made products, and using leverage to condition China's loans from the World Bank on its human rights behavior.
Senator Baucus also suggests using State Department travel advisories to promote human rights by informing American tourists which Chinese provinces have the worst human rights records and which the best.
He would also have United States businesses consider "codes of conduct" or human rights guidelines like the "Sullivan Principles," which were used in South Africa in the days of apartheid, "to make sure our firms meet basic labor standards like the minimum wage, and do not use child labor, slave labor or allow political surveillance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CARTER ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CARTER, JIMMY; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



479 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: Where Earth Tones Are the Music of Design

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY JACK WARD 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
AS Earth Day approached, Fabien Baron, a graphic designer and the creative director at Harper's Bazaar, sat back in his Corbusier-furnished penthouse office on West 57th Street, put on a tape of Van Morrison's "Hymn to the Silence" and leafed through a large box of photographs, nature studies and views of a desolate landscape. In just a few weeks, he will pack his bags and go there, leaving behind his drafting tables, his layouts and clients like Calvin Klein and Issey Miyake to fend for themselves for a few weeks.
Twelve hours from Manhattan, he will watch from a lumbering prop plane for the twin volcanos that dominate the barren topography of Pantelleria, a nine-mile-long speck in the Mediterranean between Sicily and Tunisia. 
 After a sudden, harrowing descent between the twin peaks and a bone-rattling ride in his World War II Willis Jeep over a lunar-like landscape, he will follow a lava path to what he calls home: a series of 18-foot-square rooms made of stacked volcanic rocks and built into the hillside. From above, one sees only two swelling mounds in the earth.
This house is called a dammuso, built in the 19th century with thick stone walls, smoothly finished inside with graceful vaulted arches in smooth stucco and with ingenious convex roofs that collect precious rainwater and funnel it to underground cisterns. The design is as pure, stark and clean as Mr. Baron's own graphic style, although the form originated in North Africa 3,000 years ago.
From the Mediterranean to Miami, Guatemala to the Yukon, a handful of pioneering architects and designers are going back to the earth with what the critic Vincent Scully calls a "reverent appreciation for the landscape." Increasingly, they are turning to less technologically advanced cultures in which harmony with nature is the starting point for creative expression and are seeking inspiration in indigenous forms simply built of available materials. Such a sustainable "world architecture," says Christopher Alexander, a builder, architect and professor at the University of California at Berkeley, may represent the pursuit of a "spiritual purity of maker and artifact."
Mr. Baron said of Pantelleria's vaulted structures and barren hillsides: "It is very mystical and biblical. I feel like I knew the place, like I belonged there."
Mr. Baron bought his dammuso (pronounced dam-MOO-soh) in 1989 while visiting Pantelleria for Italian Vogue with the designer and photographer Fabrizio Ferri, who is now his neighbor. "I said, 'I love this house,' and boom!" he said, with Gallic affect. "I'd bought it right there, right like that!" The house with almost 15 acres of land cost $80,000.
Mr. Baron has been renovating his ruin ever since, said Gabriella Giuntoli, a Milanese architect and urban planner who specializes in the preservation of Pantelleria's venerable dammusi. The house, a progression of interconnected vaulted cubes, was abandoned and overgrown when Mr. Baron purchased it. Ms. Giuntoli's work on the house seems invisible. "I simply changed the function of these rooms, not their structure," she said. "All we did was open a few windows to allow more light. Fabien and I just underlined the important features unique to the dammuso: light, sculptural quality, watery or evanescent color."
There will be a big bag of capers, the island's principal crop, waiting on the table as a gesture of welcome for Mr. Baron, his wife, Sciascia, and his children, Ariel, 2, and Matthew, 6. The waxed cement floors will be cool underfoot. Local craftsmen made new arches and terra-cotta and stone terraces that are indistinguishable from original ones. Mr. Baron has installed electricity but prefers not to use it. He relies on his large collection of oil lamps and cooks over a butane stove. "When we have dinner, we put lots and lots of lamps and candles -- maybe 50 -- on the table. When we started, the light was so beautiful that we decided not to use electricity."
If the world of fashion is the yin, then Mr. Baron's simple life at his home on Pantelleria is certainly the yang. "You drink a little wine from the place, you eat pasta, you fall asleep and wake up around 3 in the morning," he said. "Far away you hear the sea. It's authentic, not superficial. It's not political, it's not fake, nothing. Every word you could say about fashion, it is not."
Travis Price, an architect in Takoma Park, Md., also migrates to multiculturalism -- on the opposite side of the world. Last summer at sunrise you could find him 1,000 miles north of Vancouver, British Columbia, in the Canadian Yukon. There, at a tent encampment on Ealue Lake at Wolf Creek Lodge, Mr. Price, a wiry man in a rumpled navy blue sweatshirt, was leading 12 architecture students in kojasho, a series of exercises and movements, based on a Japanese martial art, in which the participants take on the identity of animals, the better to commune with nature.
Mr. Price, 45, designs in both the spiritual and material worlds. He is an architectural critic and a lecturer at the University of Maryland and at Catholic University in Washington. His firm, Travis Price Architects, is currently designing a library for St. John's College in Annapolis, Md.; a spiritual retreat center for Jewish adults near Camp David, Md., and a training center in Sarasota, Fla., for teachers of aikido, a martial art in which he has a black belt.
Mr. Price spends two weeks each summer running an Outward Bound-style wilderness camp for architecture students that he calls "Spirit of Place, Spirit of Design."
"Architecture study has been urban based," said Wade Davis, 40, who is Mr. Price's colleague at the camp and has degrees in anthropology, biology and ethnobotany. "Travis wanted to know what happens to a group of students from the urban East when put into a landscape so wild that it sweeps over the imagination, where within a mile there are far more grizzly bears and wolves than people."
Last August, the group, in a creative response to the landscape, designed and built a Zen meditation temple that married the abstract and the rustic. They used only the simplest of hand tools to build a raised platform. The students felled, stripped and lashed 85 trees gathered from the site, made a raked roof to suggest a flying eagle's wing and decorated it with a colorful pattern in its shingles, recalling the northern lights that dazzled their city eyes.
On the platform, the group built a cube-shaped inner sanctum of milled lumber and sheet metal. "Geometry is a universal way artists through all the cultural traditions talk about perfection," said Mr. Price, who added, "The group also learned how hard it is to skin a tree."
Mr. Davis, who has spent a part of his adult life living with Indians in the Spatsizi wilderness, the most remote area of British Columbia, bristles at the suggestion that he is advocating that his students live like Indians or appropriate Indian culture.
"You can celebrate the poetics of cultural diversity without sentimentality or nostalgia," Mr. Davis said. As builders, he added, the members of the group are seeking "the conduit to a culture, the points of commonality, such as water, forest and leaves, and a shared spirit of place."
In his residential work, Mr. Price often explores the collision of cultures. In the design of an ecologically sustainable house that he will build this summer on Vargas Island on Cloquot Sound, near Vancouver, for Ian MacKenzie, a Scottish environmental photographer, he conceived a "cultural environmental billboard." Japanese elements include raised platforms, exposed wooden beams, shoji panels of a translucent insulation material called Kalwal and stone footings. There will be a gutter-to-cistern water system, and the house will rely on secondary wood for its stove; the main structural logs will be driftwood refuse from the logging industry, and carpenters will use wood from the cleared site. "The message is that the primary wood economy is the destruction of the forest," Mr. Price said.
The house's exterior's design calls for enormous graphic decorations in the style of the region's Kwakiutl people, who paint their houses with identifying masks. Mr. Price distinguishes himself from many in the eco-architecture movement by his irreverent humor: local flora and fauna inspire salmon- and whale-shaped joists and beams, while other exterior images, including a sassy depiction of the Loch Ness monster, represent the client's Scottish heritage.
At the University of Miami School of Architecture, a coalition of about a dozen faculty members, many of them Latin American, has organized a method of study similar to that of the Ealue Lake adventurers. Led by the brothers Jorge Trelles, 35, and Luis Trelles, 38, Cuban-born architects, and 40-year-old Teofilo Victoria, who was raised in Colombia, students explore architectural sites primarily in Guatemala, Mexico and Colombia in a six-week program designed to help them understand the roots of colonial architecture and recognize the settlers' wonderment at the wilderness they found.
"The Europeans found an extraordinarily, urgently, pressingly abundant landscape, wilder than their knowledge of wilderness could possibly have been," said Mr. Victoria, whose teaching method also begins with the landscape. Students start by drawing leaves and flowers indigenous to South Florida and Central America, not for sentimental reasons but to remain close to nature and the regional roots of architecture.
"It's analagous to Mies's students drawing every brick in detail to study existing structure," said Mr. Scully, who is a visiting professor at the architecture school and is completing a book on the approach of the Miami School, as this coalition has come to be called, to the study of architecture through nature. "I really believe that these people are going after architecture in an entirely new way that is unique to the way architecture is taught almost everywhere else."
Many of the new Miami School architects identify themselves as Magic Realists, in the tradition of artists and writers like Frida Kahlo, Fernando Botero and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. "In Magic Realism, the scale of nature is exaggerated," Mr. Victoria said, "and nature itself is often the protagonist, as big as the American West, or the wilderness of the Amazon jungles, or the amazing colors of its birds."
In South Beach, Fla., a partnership that includes Mr. Victoria and the Trelles brothers recently completed a building that is emblematic of the Miami School approach. Azul (the word means blue in Spanish), a women's clothing store, is a modest row building that the architects hope will be an urban model. The facade of the two-story stucco building is colored in a remarkable watery blue lime paint devised by Emilio Cianfoni, the renowned Roman colorist brought to Miami to restore the landmark monument house Villa Viscaya. (Lime painting is an ancient technique; as it absorbs moisture, colors intensify, giving walls a timeworn, patinated effect.)
The expressive silhouette with its elongated pediment was inspired by 16th-century Baroque churches in Guatemala, but here it is "imbued with a feminine quality, a delicacy of curve like a pendant around the neck," Jorge Trelles said. To the east, a striking geometric rose window casts morning sunlight through the store in brilliant facets.
"This is not a romantic primitivism," Mr. Scully said of the new Miami esthetic. "We look through Anglo eyes and see the buildings and bright color and think thus. This is a bright and powerful urbanism."
The passion for the landscape of Central and South America is deeply personal for Latin American architects in Miami, who Mr. Victoria said are "inextricably linked to a longing for a more pure time, the eternal return."
These days they gather at the recently completed home of Jorge Trelles and his partner and wife, MariTere Cabarrocas, in the neighborhood of Coconut Grove. The two-story home, built around an old black olive tree that the Trelleses wanted to preserve, has stucco walls the color of mamey, a brilliant orange-red fruit. Mr. Trelles, a burly, intense man in wrinkled khakis and a polo shirt, slouched deep into a wicker chair and filled the night air with wistful memories of life in Cuba -- "longing stories," he calls them -- before 1961. That was when "anything of any value was removed -- family, church, culture," he said, and his family left for Miami.
Such stories are a reminder that world architecture begins with the spirit of place and is a mediation between nature and the needs of humans. Summing up the growing fascination with this new estetic, Christopher Alexander of Berkeley, who is writing an essay on the art of building called "The Nature of Order," said: "While it seems quite reasonable that we would pursue expeditions, there is a simpler journey. It is more important that you find this spiritual purity in your own soul."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A hill or a home? Both. Fabien Baron's hideaway on Pantelleria, below, is at one with the volcanic landscape.; Learning from nature: student builders in the Yukon, below. A plan, left, with Indian and Loch Ness images. (pg. C1); A reverent appreciation for Pantelleria's desolate landscape, above, inspired the design of Fabien Baron's 150-year-old home. Top, from left: original window, living room, closed window, decorative alcove and stone terrace.; The vaulted dining room of Fabien Baron's dammuso. (Photographs by Fabien Baron); Teofilo Victoria, above left, Luis Trelles, in glasses, and Jorge Trelles, of the Miami School. At left, Azul, a Miami store inspired by Guatemalan churches, flowers and water imagery. (J. West for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEDITERRANEAN (87%); ITALY (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (71%); UNITED STATES (67%); AFRICA (56%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S BAZAAR (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANTELLERIA (ITALY); MEDITERRANEAN (87%); ITALY (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (71%); UNITED STATES (67%); AFRICA (56%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); RELIGION (60%); WORLD WAR II (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WARD, TIMOTHY JACK; BARON, FABIEN RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (57%); ISSEY MIYAKE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



480 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
New Fears on North Korea
The U.S. Secretary of Defense said the North would soon remove enough fuel from a reactor to make four or five new nuclear weapons. Page A7.
 
Financing Welfare Overhaul
 Clinton aides are considering raiding programs for veterans and farmers to pay for a welfare plan. Page D24.
 
Living With Higher Rates
 Many consumers are expected to shrug off the higher interest rates that have unnerved the markets, and some may even benefit. Page D1.
 
10 Jail Guards Charged
 Ten guards at the Westchester County Jail were charged with smuggling food, vodka and what they thought was cocaine to prisoners. Page B1.
 
Giuliani on Religion
 Mayor Giuliani said civic tolerance must include acceptance of the right to express religious views. Page B1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); SMUGGLING (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (88%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (86%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COCAINE (67%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



481 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
BELL ATLANTIC CORP. (BEL:N)

 BODY:
Fueled by a rebounding economy and strong demand for cellular telephones, the Bell Atlantic Corporation reported yesterday that net income jumped 17.1 percent in the first quarter to $389.2 million, or 89 cents a share.
After excluding one-time expenses for the first quarters of 1993 and 1994, the Philadelphia-based regional Bell company said that its net income had climbed 12.3 percent while revenues rose 6.6 percent, to $3.37 billion. 
 The results were somewhat higher than Wall Street estimates, and Bell Atlantic's stock price jumped yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. But analysts warned that the company's earnings in the second quarter would be weakened by dilution from Bell Atlantic's purchase of the Mexican cellular company Grupo Iusacell.
Bell Atlantic's core local telephone business grew, increasing the number of lines in use by 2.6 percent. But the cellular businesses added nearly 300,000 new customers over the first quarter of 1993, pushing up cellular revenues by 42 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "BELL ATLANTIC CORP. (BEL:N)" 

Qtr. to Mar 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	3,373,200,000	3,163,300,000	+6.6	Net inc.	b389,200,000	c329,200,000	+18.2	Sh. earn	.89	.76		Sh. out.	437,300,000	435,500,000	 	
 
b-After an extraordinary charge of $6.7 million, or 2 cents a share, from early extinguishment of debt.
c-After an extraordinary charge from early extinguishment of debt of $23.2 million, or 5 cents a share; an accounting gain of $65.2 million for income taxes, and an accounting charge of $85 million for post-employment benefits. The net charge totaled 4 cents a share for the two accounting changes. Period was also reduced by 2 cents a share to reflect the impact of last year's tax legislation.
Year-ago quarter results were restated to reflect the cumulative effect of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Post-employment Benefits," effective Jan. 1, 1993.
Revenue represented total operating revenues.

Yesterday's closing price:
 
$53.625
Up $2.375

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (95%); VZ (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); GRUPO IUSACELL SA DE CV (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



482 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Words: Renew the Momentum for Peace

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:

 Following are excerpts from President Clinton's news conference today on potential action in Bosnia, as provided by the Federal News Service, a private transcription company:
 
Opening Statement:
Over the last several days, the situation in Gorazde has become increasingly grim. The Serb forces have broken their own truce agreements, persisted in brutal attacks on civilians, United Nations personnel, and NATO forces protecting those personnel. 
 These events are clearly a setback for the momentum achieved in recent months. The NATO ultimatum brought a reprieve to Sarajevo. Humanitarian routes were reopened. Agreements between Muslims and Croats changed the balance of power on the ground and offered new diplomatic opportunity.
There are reports that the Serbs have released more U.N. personnel and returned heavy weapons seized from U.N. control near Sarajevo. And they are welcome. But the imperative now is not only to address the latest Serb transgressions; it is to renew the momentum toward peace.
Let me be clear about our objective. Working with our allies, the Russians and others, we must help the warring parties in Bosnia to reach a negotiated settlement. To do that, we must make the Serbs pay a higher price for continued violence so it will be in their own interest more clearly to return to the negotiating table. That is, after all, why we pushed for NATO's efforts to enforce the no-fly zone and the Sarajevo ultimatum and to provide close air support for U.N. forces who come under attack.
In pursuit of that policy, we must take further action. Therefore, the United States has today undertaken the following initiatives.
First, we are proposing to our NATO allies that we extend the approach used around Sarajevo to other safe areas, where any violations would be grounds for NATO attacks. I have insisted that NATO commit itself to achievable objectives. NATO's air power alone cannot prevent further Serb aggressions or advances or silence every gun. Any military expert will tell you that. But it can deny the Serbs the opportunity to shell safe areas with impunity.
Second, we will work with others to pursue tighter sanctions through stricter enforcements. The existing sanctions on Serbia have crippled Serbia's economy. In light of recent events, there must be no relief.
 
 
Additional Peacekeepers
 Third, we are taking other steps to relieve suffering and support the peace process. We are offering the United Nations assistance in addressing the humanitarian crisis that is now severe in Gorazde, and we expect the Security Council to take up a resolution authorizing additional U.N. peacekeepers, which we will support. These steps support our intensive work, along with others, to secure a negotiated settlement.
I have just spoken at some length with President Yeltsin, as well as with President Mitterrand. I spoke earlier today with Prime Minister Chretien. . . . President Yeltsin and I agreed to work closely together to pursue peace in Bosnia. President Mitterrand expressed his agreement with the general approach. I was very encouraged by President Yeltsin's statement yesterday calling on the Serbs to honor their commitments, insisting that they withdraw from Gorazde and that they resume talks and that they permit U.N. personnel to return to Gorazde.
 I think you can look forward to a major diplomatic initiative coming out of our common efforts, but I cannot discuss the details or the outlines of that with you at this moment because we have agreed, all of us, that our Foreign Ministers need to talk and flesh out the details before we say exactly what approach we will take. The telephone conversations themselves were an insufficient basis for the kind of specific detailed approach that I think would be required.
In any case, it is clear that our test of Serb intent must be their actions, not their words. Those words have often proved empty. . . .
 
U.S. Interests at Stake
 The United States has interests at stake in Bosnia -- an interest in helping to stop the slaughter of innocents, an interest in helping to prevent a wider war in Europe, an interest in maintaining NATO as a credible force for peace in the post-cold-war era and in helping to stem the flow of refugees. These interests justify continued American leadership and require us to maintain a steady purpose, knowing that there will be difficulties and setbacks and that in this world, where we have a set of cooperative arrangements not only with NATO but with the United Nations, there will often be delays that would not be there were we acting alone or in a context in which our security were more immediately threatened.
Ultimately this conflict still must be settled by the parties themselves. They must choose peace. The agreement between the Croatians and the Muslims was a very important first step, but there is so much more to be done. By taking firm action consistent with our interests, the United States and our NATO allies can and must attempt to influence that choice.
 
Questions and Answers:
Q. Nothing that you are proposing today is intended to deal specifically with Gorazde, is it? And just a second thing is, have you thought through what you would propose to do if your attempt to recreate the Sarajevo model elsewhere does not deter the Serbs and they keep coming, much as they did at Gorazde?
A. Let me answer your first question first. Our proposal would create Sarajevo-like conditions, that is, sort of safe zones around all the safe areas, including Gorazde. So we would assume that as a part of this, if our allies will agree with us, that any heavy weaponry, any firing in and around that area would be subject to the same action as Srebrenica or any other safe zone. So that's that.
The second question is have I thought about what would happen if this doesn't work. I have. But I think we should stick with this policy. And if the Serbs continue their aggression in an irresponsible way, then there is -- there are other things that can be done. I have given a lot of thought to it, but I don't want to talk about it now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; GORAZDE (BOSNIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); RELIGION (55%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



483 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Workers Pass Strike Deadline As Talks Continue

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
Negotiators for the owners of 2,800 residential buildings and the union representing their service employees resumed bargaining last night and continued talking past a midnight strike deadline.
Dennis Sheehan, the spokesman for Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, said shortly after midnight that both sides had decided to keep negotiating. The union did not set another deadline. 
 His announcement came several hours after the spokesman for the landlords' group, Jim Grossman, said, "The way these things go, if they settle, it'll probably be sometime in the middle of the night."
Mr. Sheehan agreed with that judgment before the two sides resumed their talks at the Sheraton New York Hotel shortly after 10 P.M.
Union leaders and officials from the owners' bargaining group, the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, said wages and other economic issues were the main sticking point. They refused to provide details about raises the union had demanded.
The local's 30,000 members open doors, run elevators and perform similar duties in rental, cooperative and condominium buildings in New York City except for the Bronx, where there is a different local.
The contract that expired last night, negotiated in 1991 after a 12-day strike, provided annual increases averaging about 4 percent, after splitting the difference on wages, then as now the chief issue.
Under the 1991 contract, doormen earn $518 a week and handymen $568 a week, the owners said. That comes to $27,981 a year (including employer payments for sick days, 10 of them under the contract). Tips add an indefinite amount to income, and individual buildings can reward merit in various ways, with bonuses, higher base wages or time off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LABOR; STRIKES STRIKES (94%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SICK LEAVE (64%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES DENNIS SHEEHAN (78%); EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



484 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: City Begins Enforcement Of Food Cart Restrictions

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
In a clash that led an army of food vendors to marshal their carts along Fifth Avenue yesterday, New York City has begun a new crackdown on vendors operating in areas that the city has declared off limits.
Officials say that they are simply stepping up enforcement of a 10-year-old rule, and that they began with consultations with vendors and other business owners last year. The rule bans food vendors from certain congested areas, including swaths of Fifth Avenue, while permitting them in others. 
 But many food vendors say they think the city and business groups are bent on their destruction. About 500 vendors -- pushing 100 food carts, empty of their cargo of doughnuts, hot dogs, ice cream and gyros -- marched along Fifth Avenue in protest yesterday, chanting slogans and waving placards. "Save cheap lunch," their signs proclaimed. "We sell food, not drugs!" they shouted.
It differed from most demonstrations in the city, in that the effect was stark and immediate: it was impossible to find a quick snack on Fifth Avenue. "A lot of guys in my office missed their morning coffee," said Richard Thornton, an accountant.
 
'Quality of Life'
 Officer Scott Bloch, a police spokesman, said enforcement of the law had been intensified in the last three or four weeks, with many warnings issued and a few summonses. The highest penalty for repeated infractions is confiscation of carts.
The administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani views enforcement of such laws as part of a campaign on "quality of life" issues. The laws are for safety and convenience, intended to prevent obstruction of walkways and to lessen congestion.
Allan J. Fromberg, a spokesman for the Mayor, said: "The Mayor and Police Commissioner have agreed to begin enforcing a law that simply has not been enforced. The decision is rooted in public safety and economic reality."
City Hall has the support of business groups in midtown Manhattan. "The Mayor is trying to reverse decades of ignoring regulations that should have been enforced," said Daniel A. Biederman, president of the Grand Central Partnership. "It's very much of a piece with truancy and squeegee enforcement."
 
Enforcement Recommended
 The vendors, most of whom are employees, not business owners, say the 1983 changes are simply too onerous. They even point to a statement from Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1984 saying he would not enforce the new rules because they would drive out all food vending.
But last year Mayor David N. Dinkins appointed a committee on food peddling, divided equally between vendors and other business owners. After several meetings, that group recommended enforcing the law.
Such strict enforcement, said Alfred DelBello, lawyer for the vendors, "basically knocks out most, if not all, the economically viable streets in midtown."
Cliff Stanton, who operates 50 Frozade carts, said: "I may have to lay off half my staff. And some of these people have been on the street for 10 or 12 years."
Mr. Biederman of the Grand Central Partnership met with other business leaders in a hastily scheduled press conference yesterday. A flier from the vendors accused the partnership and other business improvement districts of conspiring to eliminate "inexpensive food choices" and trying to put them out of work.
But the business leaders said they had no quarrel with legal vendors, provided they worked in legal places. "The legal vendor operating legally is disadvantaged by the vendor operating illegally," said Brendan Sexton, vice president of the Rockefeller Group. "If I have a license to drive a car, it doesn't mean I have a license to drive a truck the wrong way up a highway."
The politics surrounding the issue are already as messy as a jumbo frank with sauerkraut and onions. Today, City Councilman Anthony D. Weiner intends to introduce a bill to declare a moratorium on enforcement of the vending restrictions for 120 days. Hearings would be held to draft new rules.
Mr. Weiner, who represents the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn, said, "On a philosophical level, a lot of the midtown business groups want to have no vendors."
"The people who are lining up to get coffee and doughnuts in the morning aren't captains of industry," he added. He further suggested that it is unfair suddenly to begin enforcing a law after years of ignoring it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; VENDORS, STREET MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RIOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



485 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Many Americans Flunk Pop Science Quiz

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d 

 BODY:
A majority of American adults do not know that humans evolved from animal species or that the Sun and Earth are in the Milky Way galaxy. And one-third think that humans and dinosaurs existed at the same time, according to a new nationwide survey on scientific literacy among adults.
The survey, conducted by Louis Harris & Associates and the American Museum of Natural History and released yesterday, found that despite years of efforts to improve science education in public schools, American adults possess a low level of literacy in science. 
 "The message here is clear and simple," said Ellen V. Futter, the museum's president and a former president of Barnard College. "Americans do not know enough about science or the scientific process."
The survey portrayed an adult population with such a limited understanding of science that only 21 percent of the 1,225 adults questioned scored 60 percent or better on 20 questions that examined basic knowledge of subjects that included space, earth, the environment, animals and causes of diseases.
 
'Erratic' Grasp of Science
 In assessing the findings, Ms. Futter said American adults "seem to have an erratic, almost idiosyncratic" understanding of "bits of science information."
The respondents seemed to score best on questions with an immediacy in today's world. A vast majority, 78 percent, knew that AIDS is caused by a virus. And, questioned within weeks of the last California earthquake, most respondents knew that the continents move.
But more than half did not correctly answer a question on evolution that was asked in these two different ways:
*Human beings developed from earlier species of animals, true or false?
*Human beings evolved from earlier species of animals, true or false?
Forty-six percent said false to both. The survey did not address whether religious beliefs might have affected the result.
Sixty-five percent did not know how many planets are in the solar system, and only a fraction, 10 percent, could correctly name what scientists believe to be the nearest modern-day relative of Tyrannosaurus rex from a list of four: chicken, crocodile, elephant and lizard. (It is the chicken.)
The survey was conducted by telephone in February and March and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The findings are similar to other specialized surveys of what Americans know, like one on geography two years ago sponsored by the National Geographic Society and one last year on knowledge of economics.
And last September, a sweeping study by the United States Department of Education concluded that a large percentage of the American adult population has large gaps in basic knowledge, from an inability to read at all to an inability to read a utility bill.
 
Results to Help Museum
 Ms. Futter said the museum would use the survey's results to better tailor the museum's science education classes for adults and children alike. She said she hoped the findings would also be used by community colleges and science organizations to fine-tune existing science education curriculums or begin new efforts to address results that Ms. Futter and other museum officials called "surprising," given the flow of resources into science education into public schools since the 1957 launching of Sputnik by the former Soviet Union.
She and other museum officials said schools alone should not be blamed for the low level of science literacy. Although a four-year study released last October by the American Association for the Advancement of Science called for better curriculums and improved teaching, American students continue to lag behind European and Asian students in achievement tests, a trend that not surprisingly surfaces in the adult population.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "QUIZ: Testing Scientific Literacy" shows how a national sample of 1,225 adults answered various questions on a test of scientific literacy. (Sources: Louis Harris and Associates, The American Museum of Natural History)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MILKY WAY GALAXY (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS, LOUIS, AND ASSOCIATES INC; AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC) HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (58%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (51%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARRIS, LOUIS, AND ASSOCIATES INC; AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC) AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MILKY WAY GALAXY (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; PUBLIC OPINION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS ZOOLOGY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ANIMALS (90%); HISTORY (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D ELLEN V FUTTER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



486 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Nominee Seen for Fed Seat

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
President Clinton's senior economic advisers tentatively plan to recommend that he nominate a University of California economist, Janet L. Yellen, to the Federal Reserve Board, a senior Administration official said tonight.
Robert E. Rubin, the head of the National Economic Council, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, reached a consensus at a meeting late Tuesday, the official said. 
 Ms. Yellen is a former colleague of Ms. Tyson, who also taught economics at the University of California at Berkeley.
Ms. Yellen has a reputation as an eclectic writer, looking at themes ranging from influences on the trade balance to the behavior of street gangs. She has tended to take a fairly stringent anti-inflation position while also writing extensively on employment issues, showing a sensitivity to the problems faced by people who lose their jobs.
"The President has still not had a chance to meet with his economic team to discuss it, so it's not a done deal," the official said.
Ms. Yellen's prospective appointment was reported tonight in Thursday's issue of The Washington Post. It was confirmed tonight by the official.
The President is expected to nominate Alan Blinder, another member of the Council of Economic Advisers, to another open seat on the Fed later this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); WRITERS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELLEN, JANET L BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



487 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Many consumers are shrugging off the higher interest rates that have sent the stock and bond markets into a tailspin, and some may even benefit from the increases. [Page D1.]
Home construction snapped back in March from midwinter doldrums as builders broke ground at a rate 12.1 percent faster than February's, the Commerce Department reported. [D1.] 
 The top U.S. bank regulator expressed alarm that the big commercial banks were taking too many investment risks, and said new regulatory limits may be needed. [D1.]
The F.C.C. cleared the way for the sale of licenses for advanced messaging and interactive video services by this summer. [D20.]
California's Public Utilities Commission voted to hold public hearings and formulate rules under which customers could shop for low electric rates within and outside the state. [A14.]
 
Markets
Stocks were lower in a baffling day that saw unusually hectic trading. The Dow fell 21.11 points, to 3,598.71. [D1.]
Prices of Treasury securities gained for the second consecutive day as the market rebounded from Monday's selloff. [D18.]
The dollar fell against the German mark for the third straight day. [D17.] Lumber futures reversed an early rally and fell. [D17.]
 
International
Guiding the Bank of Mexico to a newfound respect is its director general, Miguel Mancera. Now the bank's independence may be tested by mounting pressure on the peso. [D1.]
Some big Japanese supermarkets are cutting prices on beer and other alcoholic beverages, a revolutionary move that is a sign of the changes working their way through the economy. [D7.]
The International Monetary Fund's board approved a special $1.5 billion loan for Russia. [A9.]
 
Companies
A day after being indicted in Chicago, Steven Hoffenberg, the head of Towers Financial, was charged by a second Federal grand jury in New York with conspiring to cheat investors. [D2.]
Sears, Roebuck & Company formed a joint venture to develop and market a line of cosmetics. [D5.]
Compaq Computer's first-quarter earnings surpassed Wall Street's expectations. [D5.]
Lotus Development's stock tumbled, despite what analysts deemed a strong first-quarter performance by the company. [D5.]
IDB Communications Group is expected to announce an agreement today to buy Peoples Telephone. [D5.]
AMR, American Airlines' parent, reported a loss in the first quarter, but it was smaller than analysts had expected. [D6.]
General Electric said profits were hurt in the first quarter by trading irregularities at its brokerage subsidiary. [D6.]
Allstate raised its loss estimate from the January earthquake in California to $950 million, from $600 million. [D6.]
Morton International's stock plunged more than $10, despite the company's better-than-expected third-quarter results. [D6.]
Bankers Trust New York lost $49 million from trading for its own account in the first quarter, after taxes and expenses. [D10.]
MBD Broadcasting and Chancellor Communications agreed to acquire 11 radio stations from American Media. [D21.]
 
Today's Columns
Researchers are debating where to put money to control the world's population growth. Economic Scene: Peter Passell. [D2.]
Analysts gave positive reviews to QVC's latest presentation about its new Q2 shopping channel. Market Place. [D10.]
 Tambrands hopes to revive its flagging fortunes with an innovative new product. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (80%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (80%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (64%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (53%); IDB WORLDCOM SERVICES INC (52%); ALLSTATE CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (56%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (56%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (56%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (56%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); APPROVALS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); COSMETICS (73%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); BEVERAGE PRICES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); GERMAN MARK (66%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (63%); GRAND JURY (63%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



488 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Guiding Bank of Mexico To Newly Won Respect

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 20

 BODY:
Through the first few rocky months of 1994, the Bank of Mexico loomed as Mexico's financial bulwark, stubbornly defending the peso against several runs in the face of a guerrilla uprising in Chiapas state, the kidnapping of a millionaire businessman and the assassination of a presidential candidate. In the process, the central bank impressed international investors with the way that Mexico's financial institutions have performed under pressure.
The Bank of Mexico has assumed a more independent identity since April 1, when it became constitutionally autonomous. For now, most economic analysts see the bank's new autonomy as positive. Separating the authority that prints money from the Government that spends it makes investors sleep soundly.
 
Debate Over Devaluation
 However, the bank's independence is likely to be tested by the pressure on the Mexican peso and the mounting debate over whether it should be devalued. Over the last month, investors pulled more than $3 billion in capital out of Mexico. 
 To stem the outflow of pesos, the Bank of Mexico raised interest rates on its treasury bonds today to 18 percent, leading to one of the year's largest drops on the stock exchange. The Bolsa index gave up 5.2 percent of its value, tumbling 107.44 points to close at 1,957.33. Of 103 issues traded, all but three declined.
Much of the prestige enjoyed by the Bank of Mexico derives from the quiet dignity of its director general, Miguel Mancera. A holder of a master's degree in economics from Yale, Mr. Mancera has worked at the bank for 36 years and headed it for the last 11. With his plain gray suits, hair combed straight back and heavy tortoise shell glasses, he is the image of the probity for which he strives in the bank itself.
Mr. Mancera, whose fiscal conservatism has prompted criticism that he is blind to Mexico's social needs, contends that tight monetary control is essential for a nation's security.
"In Mexico as in many other countries," Mr. Mancera said in a recent interview, "it has been clearly observed that the ultimate cause of inflation, mostly acute inflation, has been abuse of central bank credit, and this abuse usually is connected to the fact that the executive branch of government has at its disposal central bank credit in order to finance budget deficits."
As the engine of Mexico's monetary policy, the Bank of Mexico, like the Federal Reserve in the United States, continues to control credit and set interest rates.
Last year President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and his finance minister, Pedro Aspe, proposed that the central bank be granted independence, effectively shielding it from political interference. The move was taken as proof that Mexico was serious about controlling inflation and keeping its economy disciplined.
Previously, the bank was governed by a board composed mostly of government officials and a director who served at the President's pleasure.
The essential elements of the new system, under the Mexican constitution, are that no authority can order the bank to grant financing. The bank is now run by an independent five-person board made up of a governor and four sub-governors, who are appointed by the President and serve a six- or eight-year term from which they essentially cannot be dismissed. Their terms are staggered and overlap the six-year presidential term.
 
No Insulation From Politics
 The Mexican architects of the bank's new autonomy did not want the bank so independent that it would be isolated from politics. The governors' terms are structured so that by the fourth year of a six-year administration, the incumbent President will have been able to name at least three of the five members, giving him a majority, so presumably his policies will be enacted. In contrast, the American President can name only two of seven Federal Reserve members during a single four-year term.
"There should be independence, but that should not ignore the political evolution of the country," Mr. Mancera said at his office in the historic center of Mexico City.
Because Mr. Mancera and President Salinas share the desire to control inflation, almost never in the last five years has politics collided with monetary policy.
 
Past Pressure to Print Money
 In the past, however, free-spending Mexican officials put pressure on the central bank to lower interest rates and print more money. On one such occasion in 1982, Mr. Mancera quit rather than obey an order from President Jose Lopez Portillo to impose currency exchange controls. He rejoined the bank several months later after President Miguel de la Madrid took office.
The Salinas administration has succeeded in its economic priority of reducing inflation, bringing the rate down from 159 percent in 1987 to 8 percent last year. Mr. Mancera said there are now "more important goals" like social justice and sustained growth, which would have been even more difficult to attain "in an inflationary environment." Despite the current difficulties, he maintained, this year's Federal budget will be balanced.
But the biggest immediate economic concerns have to do with the peso, which has lost about 13 percent of its value since February. Morgan Stanley & Company, citing a report by Mexican foreign-exchange brokers, said that more than $3 billion left Mexico in the week following the assassination of the presidential candidate, Luis Donaldo Colosio, on March 23.
The continuing outflow puts new pressure on the bank to devalue the peso, but many analysts believe it will not do so before the Aug. 21 presidential election. Citicorp, for example, said that such a move would be "politically damaging for the credibility of the central bank and its recently acquired autonomous status."
 
Washington's Funds Untouched
 Mr. Mancera said the bank did not have to use any of the $6 billion in backup funds made available by Washington to support the peso in the turbulence that followed Mr. Colosio's assassination. The Bank of Mexico's own foreign capital reserves are reported to exceed $25 billion.
But political instabilities continue to bedevil the peso. A peace settlement in Chiapas remains elusive. The kidnapped businessman, Alfredo Harp Jelu, has not yet been found. And an investigation continues into an apparent conspiracy behind Mr. Colosio's murder.
Mr. Mancera expressed confidence that the peso, trading at roughly the top of an allowed band -- now at 3.37 pesos to the dollar -- will eventually come back down. Uncertainty about the peso continues, however. That is only natural, Mr. Mancera said, "in any country that has in the past suffered from devaluations.
"Fortunately," he continued, "that inclination is less strong now than it was years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: To stem the outflow of pesos, the Bank of Mexico raised interest rates yesterday on its treasury bonds to 18 percent, leading to one of the largest drops of the year on the Mexican stock exchange. Traders signaled deals on the floor of the exchange in Mexico City. (Associated Press) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Pushing the Limits" tracks Mexican pesos to the dollar, weekly in new pesos, since the fourth quarter of 1991. (Source: Bank of Mexico; Datastream) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MEXICO BANK OF MEXICO (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF MEXICO

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); BONDS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); 

PERSON: MANCERA, MIGUEL MIGUEL MANCERA (91%); CARLOS SALINAS DE GORTARI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



489 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Minority Business Chiefs Uneasy Over City-Contract Plan

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Minority and women business owners responded skeptically yesterday to a new city procurement system intended to aid their companies and other small businesses, saying it does not go far enough in filling the void left by the elimination of a more aggressive affirmative-action contracting program.
The new system, described by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at a news conference yesterday, is aimed at opening up the bidding process for thousands of small city contracts, enabling more businesses owned by women and minorities to participate. 
 While welcoming any attempts to broaden the system, the executives said that the Mayor's plan falls short in breaking down barriers confronting minorities and women in obtaining large government contracts.
"Minority firms have for years been fighting over the crumbs," said Serafin Mariel, president of the New York National Bank, a minority-owned bank in the South Bronx. The earlier affirmative-action program, cut by Mr. Giuliani in January, "recognized reality and tried to accomplish something meaningful," he said.
 
Higher Bids Were Okay
 That program, created under Mayor David N. Dinkins, enabled companies owned by women or minorities to obtain city contracts of any size even if they bid up to 10 percent higher than the competition.
"Now Mr. Giuliani's program seems to focus on the crumbs," Mr. Mariel added. "There may be a few more of them, but they are still crumbs."
The new procurement system, first outlined in general terms on Tuesday, will change the city's rules for filling small contracts and purchase orders. Until now, when buying less than $10,000 in goods or $15,000 in services, city purchasing agents called no more than five companies, offering them a chance to bid.
That system, Mr. Giuliani said, overlooked hundreds of qualified small companies that would have been anxious to bid. Under the new system, information on thousands of small companies will be fed into a computer that will match every city contract with every potential bidder. All qualified companies identified by the computer will be contacted and offered a chance to bid.
"It saves the city money by encouraging competition," the Mayor said. The changes, he added, are an "opportunity to obtain far more city business based on economic rather than race- or gender-based criteria."
 
Looking to Broaden
 The Mayor and Rudy Washington, the city's Commissioner of Business Services, said they would try to persuade other government agencies like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, public utilities like Con Edison and the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, and even private corporations to use its computerized index of small companies as a source for minority bidders.
"It sounds great on paper," said Joel Silverman, president of HRH Construction, one of New York City's largest builders. He said his company has already decided to use the city's new computer file to look for women- and minority-owned companies to hire. But he added that the system, unless properly administered, may produce a deluge of poorly qualified companies bidding for work.
Many women and minority business owners are still smarting over the elimination of the 10-percent "price preference" provision in Mayor Dinkins's affirmative-action program. In effect for only a year before Mr. Giuliani eliminated it, the provision would not have survived even under the former Mayor, because it was ruled unconstitutional by a state Supreme Court in February.
Regarding Mr. Giuliani's plan, Roy A. Hastick, president of the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Brooklyn, said "It's a step in the right direction," but added that "minorities will have to monitor" the new system to see if it really increases the amount of business flowing to them.
Harriet R. Michel, president of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, a Manhattan organization that helps corporations identify minority contractors, was less equivocal about whether the program would help minorities.
"This doesn't show me that Mayor Giuliani is committed at all," she said. "He is nickel-and-diming around the edges."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (61%); NG (LSE) (61%); ED (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (61%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (61%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (61%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (61%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (61%); NEW YORK NATIONAL BANK (56%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (51%); NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; SMALL BUSINESS MINORITY BUSINESSES (94%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); WOMEN (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); TRENDS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



490 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Hectic Day Of Trading For Stocks

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Yesterday was a baffling day on Wall Street. For months, the stock market has followed the bond market, in lock step, up and down, but mostly down. Yet when bonds rallied yesterday, stocks plunged, as good signals from the bond market alternated with bad signals elsewhere. When stock traders become baffled, they tend to sell.
And they sold yesterday in unusually hectic trading. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 21.11 points, to 3,598.71. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also fell, but less precipitously -- 0.58 point, to 441.96. The Nasdaq composite index, heavy with battered technology stocks, continued its steep drop of the last week or so, falling 7.33 points, to 705.52. 
 Even companies reporting strong earnings, but which were below Wall Street estimates, saw their prices plunge. "We're just murdering stocks that don't deliver," Anthony T. Conroy, managing director of equities at Mabon Securities in New York, said.
 
 
A Case in Point
 Morton International, maker of salt and specialty chemical products, is a case in point. It reported a 48 percent increase in third-quarter profit to $1.42 a share, but Wall Street analysts had been expecting earnings of as much $1.50 a share. Traders sliced 10 percent off Morton's share price, leaving it at 82 3/4, down 10 1/8.
But what was especially confusing was the behavior of stock traders' counterparts in the bond market. Presumably assessing the same economic data, bond traders had one of the best sessions recently in a persistently sour market. Bond traders bid down long-term interest rates that are key to borrowing costs for everyone from General Motors to the consumer on the dealer's showroom floor.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond's yield fell 4 basis points, to 7.32 percent, and its price rose 18/32 of a point, to 876/32 . When the inflation outlook improves, bond prices rise and traders do not have to offer higher yields to entice buyers. [Page D18.]
 
 
Wall Street Reasoning
 But it seems that bond traders should not have been pleased. The day, at least in the peculiar reasoning of Wall Street, should not have started well. The Commerce Department reported a 12.1 percent increase in March housing starts, compared with Wall Street's expectations of a 7.9 percent jump.
The figure meant that despite higher interest rates, the housing market was red hot, probably indicative of future inflation.
"The housing starts figure was important for two reasons," Alfred E. Goldman, director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said. "It meant that Alan Greenspan's view that the economy could be overheating had some validity. No. 2, it posed a test for the bond market and it passed." What should have prompted another drop in bond prices instead led to a lift in the market, he noted, meaning that bond prices may at last be bottoming out.
"It's too soon to say whether the bear market for bonds is over," Mr. Goldman said. "But we're close."
And if Mr. Goldman is right, that is the good news in yesterday's chaotic session: the bond market may at last be pulling out of its slump. If so, an improving bond market could lay the groundwork for an imminent rally in stocks, which thrive when borrowing costs stabilize, analysts say.
For yesterday, however, the trend was still down. The S.&. P 500's automobile, oil, bank, equipment manufacturing and chemical companies all declined in heavy trading. Among blue-chip stocks, Caterpillar, Boeing, United Technologies, International Paper and Union Carbide dropped. And in the smaller-company Nasdaq index, Lotus Development, U S Health Care and Oracle all fell.
The Dow industrials plunged so inexorably yesterday that the blue-chip average was only 0.63 point away from setting off so-called circuit-breaker rules designed to slow high-speed computer-guided trading when the Dow plummets more than 50 points. The day's trading volume of nearly 367 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange was one of the heaviest of the year.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.71 point, to 244.66. Declining stocks outnumbered advancing stocks by 1,417 to 835. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 3.50 points to 427.60.
Intel was again the most active stock yesterday as 7.8 million shares were traded. It had fallen for nearly a week on a poor competitive outlook, but yesterday it closed unchanged at 57 1/2.
While the housing starts increase may have been troublesome, the increase in housing permits, 5.1 percent in March, seemed weak, perhaps indicating that the economy will be growing at a slower pace in the months ahead. Permits are necessary to build future housing. Perhaps predictably in view of the markets' tendency to overreact, some traders started talking darkly of the Fed going too far with interest rate increases.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; GOVERNMENT BONDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); INFLATION (88%); HOUSING STARTS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (52%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



491 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: A New Strategy for Welfare Overhaul

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
As President Clinton finalizes his proposal to overhaul the welfare system, his aides are pursuing a new financing strategy to avoid deep cuts in programs for the poor. The strategy would raise small amounts of money by cutting programs for veterans and affluent farmers and raising taxes for some investors.
The move is intended to answer critics, including some of the President's closest allies, who contend that deep cuts in programs for the needy would hurt the very people the welfare plan seeks to help. 
 But the attempt to calm one constituency risks provoking others. The measures that would affect farmers and investors are relatively minor, and the veterans' provisions simply preserve laws that are now scheduled to expire. But the proposals could still draw fire from representatives of each group, who have opposed similar measures in the past.
The options have not yet been reviewed by President Clinton, who could decide to reject them.
 
Scaling Back Proposal
 Frustrated by a lack of money, the Administration is leaning toward a smaller proposal than once contemplated, one that would spend between $10 billion and $13 billion over five years, rather than $15 billion. Officials are still considering a plan to raise about $4 billion by cutting programs that help indigent immigrants and families in temporary distress.
The new strategy is detailed in a list prepared by Leon E. Panetta, the White House budget director, who has taken over the search for financing. The document is being closely held within the Government, to avoid disclosures to lobbyists likely to oppose the changes.
While Mr. Panetta declined to comment on the list today, people familiar with it agreed to describe some of the dozens of items it contains. They said they wanted to publicly present the rationale for some of the changes, to build public support for them.
President Clinton's promise to "end welfare as we know it" is one of his most popular calls and a potential key to his political future. But the search for viable financing has become the chief obstacle to drafting a bill, and officials have repeatedly returned to the drawing board.
 
Expanding Training
 Mr. Clinton has said his plan will expand training and child care programs for people on welfare, but then require those still unemployed after two years to enroll in a work program.
While the talk of ending welfare sounds like a cost-savings measure, it is not. That is because the Government plans to subsidize recipients' wages, and to provide them with child care while they work.
Budget experts will recognize many of the items on Mr. Panetta's list, since they are frequently advocated by people concerned about the deficit.
One proposal would limit the amount of agricultural subsidies paid to affluent farmers, perhaps those with non-farm incomes of more than $100,000 a year. The people familiar with Mr. Panetta's list would not say how much money would be saved, but the Congressional Budget Office this year estimated that such changes would save about $300 million over five years.
Robert D. Reischauer, the congressional budget director, said that supporters of the measure contend that Government subsidies should go to struggling family farmers, not rich investors. But opponents, he said, have argued that the step might be a prelude to deeper agricultural cuts.
 
Limits on Annuity Interest?
 A second item on Mr. Panetta's list would limit the amount of tax-deferred interest that could build up in annuities, a move likely to draw opposition from the insurance industry, which sells the plans.
Supporters of the proposal, Mr. Reischauer said, argue that the law lets wealthy people escape taxation by sheltering large amounts of income in such investments. But opponents, he said, insist that without such financial incentives the nation's low savings rate would further drop.
A third set of proposals would affect programs for veterans by extending temporary provisions already provided by law.
Veterans who live in Government-financed nursing homes, for instance, can now collect no more than $90 a month from veterans pensions. But that restriction is scheduled to expire in 1998.
Mr. Reischauer said the argument to preserve the cap holds that by providing pensions and nursing-home care, "we're double-paying in some instances." The argument against the move, he said, is that some veterans have short stays in nursing homes, and need larger pensions to continue paying rent or mortgages.
 
Limiting Free Treatment
 Mr. Panetta is also considering moves to collect more money from veterans or their insurance companies, when the Government treats them for conditions unrelated to their military service.
A veteran who goes to a Government hospital for a war-related injury, for instance, will sometimes get free treatment for unrelated problems, like asthma. Mr. Panetta is considering ways to bolster the enforcement of laws that say the Government should not bear these costs.
The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that capping pensions and recouping more health care costs could save about $545 million over five years.
Mr. Panetta's list still includes some of the measures opposed by advocates for the poor, like a plan to make it harder for immigrants to collect payments under the Supplemental Security Income program. The Administration argues that some immigrants are abusing the program by bringing elderly parents to the country, then signing them up for the payments.
 
Vigilant Lobbyists
 But the broadening of the options is a victory for advocacy groups, like the Children's Defense Fund, which have been concerned that the financing strategy will hurt poor people.
One lesson that has emerged from the months-long effort is that no Washington lobby wants its interests touched.
When it was disclosed several months ago that the Administration was considering a new tax on gambling profits, for instance, the gaming industry began a vigorous assault on the idea.
An official said today that if the Administration decides to go forward with the tax it would be able to afford the $13 billion program, rather than the $10 billion version. Much of the difference would be used to provide child care to poor families that work, to deter them from going on welfare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FARMERS; AGRICULTURE; TAXATION; VETERANS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); AGRICULTURE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); CHILD CARE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DEPARLE, JASON BILL CLINTON (90%); LEON E PANETTA (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



492 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Higher Rates Bring On a Shrug

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
It will cost an extra $200 a month, but Kipp and Andrea Good are going to buy a house anyway, even though the recent spike in interest rates has made their move to the Westchester suburbs of New York City more expensive.
There are a lot of Americans out there like the Goods, who have been caught as long-term interest rates have shot up more than a percentage point since February. But economists reckon that most consumers will, as the Goods have done, shrug off the higher rates that have sent the stock and bond markets into a tailspin. 
 Some Americans may even benefit a bit from rising rates, particularly the elderly and others who live off investment income. But for them the outlook is more complicated because interest rates on deposits rise a lot more slowly than rates on loans; furthermore, many of these people may have lost money in the recent downturn of the stock and bond markets.
 
Trouble for the Economy?
 Still, if higher rates do not dampen spending significantly, consumers will keep economic growth zipping along so fast that inflation might reignite. And the Federal Reserve, which has already raised interest rates three times this year, will feel compelled to nudge rates up again to slow the economy before inflation heats up even more.
Mr. Good, 28, who works in the marketing department at Prudential Securities, said he had figured how much a house would cost him, using different interest rates. In the three or four months the Goods have been looking seriously, mortgage rates have gone from roughly 7 percent to more than 8 percent.
"Sure, $200 a month is signficant, but I don't think it will change the way we're looking," he said, adding that he was also exploring the costs of an adjustable-rate mortgage. Over all, he noted, mortgage rates are still low; even now, if he refinanced the mortgage on his cooperative apartment in Hoboken, N.J., he would still save money.
Indeed, the recent surge, coming off the bargain-basement levels of last year, has still left interest rates nowhere near the double-digit levels of the late 1970's and early 1980's.
Higher auto loan rates are not deterring Jane and Ross Armstrong, a couple in their early 30's, from getting the new car they will need once they move from New Jersey to Connecticut.
"We started looking three weeks ago, but we just weren't ready to hop on it," she said. They will go ahead and get the new car, though it may cost an extra $10 a month now. "That's not going to make or break us, fortunately," she said.
Higher interest rates will be even less noticeable in the many parts of the country where real estate is not nearly so costly as in the New York metropolitan area. Jonathan Pond, a financial planner in Boston, says that on a $100,000 mortgage an 8.5 percent rate will cost a homeowner about $770 a month, or $70 a month more than a 7.5 percent mortgage. "That's not the end of the world," he said.
Furthermore, home buyers are increasingly turning to adjustable-rate mortgages, which now account for 30 percent of the loans made by Countrywide Credit Industries, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, said Jerry Baker, a managing director of the company. At 5 percent, a typical rate now on adjustable mortgages, a $100,000 loan would cost about $525 a month vs. $770 a month for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage at 8.5 percent, Mr. Baker said.
On the average car loan of $14,750, an increase of one percentage point from last year's roughly 8 percent rate would add $7 a month to a buyer's cost, said W. Van Bussmann, associate corporate economist for the Chrysler Corporation. "I think it will take much more than what we've seen -- I hope Alan Greenspan isn't listening -- to choke off the auto recovery," he said.
 
One Area Little Affected
 As for credit card rates, they are unlikely to jump, in part because most never fell. According to The Bank Rate Monitor's weekly survey of 100 large banks and savings institutions, the current average rate on a fixed-rate card is 17.6 percent, barely down from 18.1 percent in April 1989.
Are consumers likely to change their behavior in light of these increases? "No, I do not see that," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, a coalition of consumer advocacy groups based in Washington.
Because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the country's economic activity, how average Americans react to rising rates will have a big effect, however, on whether the Federal Reserve succeeds in walking its tightrope, slowing the economy and keeping inflation in check, without sending the country into recession.
"The economy can probably brush off rising interest rates, but the Fed would be forced to brake even harder, the bond market would be more nervous, and rates would spike," said Christopher Probyn, director of forecasting for the economics firm DRI/ McGraw Hill. "Eventually the economy would come to a dead stop and go into a tailspin -- probably in 1996."
 
'Perverse Effects
 On the other hand, "you can overstate the impact of rising interest rates," said David Kelly, an economist with Lehman Brothers, the investment banking firm. "They sometimes have perverse effects, so people will go out and buy that car while they can still get a good rate. When rates fell, we also got the very sad story of older Americans who weren't able to get much return on assets locked up in certificates of deposit with miserable rates of return. Rising rates help them out, help overall consumer income."
"Rates were something of a double-edged sword when they fell," he added, "and they will be a double-edged sword when they rise."
The Fed has raised short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point since Feb. 4, and banks have followed, increasing their base lending rate -- the prime rate -- also by three-quarters of a point, to 6.75 percent.
The most interest-sensitve area of the economy is home buying, and rates on fixed-rate 30-year mortgages, which fell as low as 6.75 percent last fall and ended the year at 7.2 percent, have now climbed to 8.4 percent, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association's weekly survey of 25 of its largest members.
 
Varied Results
 The increase has caused a sharp drop in the number of people refinancing their loans, but only a modest decrease in the number of people applying for new loans. "Applications for refinancings have dropped a ton; those for new purchases are just starting to show a weakness just at the edges," said Lyle Gramley, the association's chief economist.
A big reason for that, he said, is that by traditional standards, mortage rates remain relatively low. The current rate of 8.4 percent is "the highest since the middle of 1992," he said, but then pointed out that "except for the past two years, it's the lowest since the first half of 1973."
None of this is to suggest that some would-be homeowners, particularly first-time and low-income buyers, will not be squeezed out of the mortgage market because of higher interest rates.
But even consumers who suffer more pain than gain from rising interest rates will benefit from them in the long run, most economists say. "From the standpoint of the average individual, if the Fed succeeds before inflation heats up, then rates will go up much less than they otherwise would," said Mr. Gramley of the Mortgage Banks Association. "If inflation begins to revive, the average person would get hit a lot harder."


GRAPHIC: Before mortgage rates began to creep up consumer spending bolstered economic growth. Graph tracks 30-year fixed-rate mortgages and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, by quarter, since the beginning of 1992. Also tracked are consumer and spending and the gross domestic product, by quarter, at seasonally adjusted rates, from the beginning of 1992 through the end of 1993. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; Commerce Department)
Graph: "Now What?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (54%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); CITIES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



493 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Yale Program to Strengthen New Haven Offers University's Employees Money to Buy Homes

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, April 20

 BODY:
In an effort to stabilize New Haven's impoverished neighborhoods, Yale University said today that it would give its employees $20,000 if they buy homes in the city before January 1996.
The employees would receive $2,000 a year for 10 years. The program is open to any Yale employee who works more than 20 hours a week, the university said. 
 The program is part of a broad effort by Yale to strengthen the city around it, whose crime and violence at times spill over onto the campus. Since the murder of a Yale student on the edge of the campus in 1991, the university has improved security and increased its efforts to improve the surrounding neighborhoods.
Despite the city's problems, 42 percent of faculty members live in New Haven, according to the university's latest figures.
Yale is not the first university to offer such incentives. The University of Chicago offers second mortgages to faculty members living near campus and has invested in cooperative apartments near the campus. The programs "have been a major stabilizing influence" on the surrounding neighborhood, said Jonathan Kleinbard, the university's vice president for community affairs. In the late 1970's, the University of Pennsylvania offered financial incentives for faculty members and employees living within 30 blocks of the Philadelphia campus.
Yale's program differs from some in that it does not offer incentives for renters.
For some employees, however, buying a house may be too costly, even with the university's help.
"For people who can afford homes, I think it's a very good idea," said Eva Heater, a cataloguing assistant at the music library who rents an apartment in New Haven. "But, even with this financial incentive, you would have to make a lot of money to buy a house."
Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, a 23-year resident of New Haven, said the program was a way to strengthen city neighborhoods.
"We are hopeful," he said, "that it will attract additional residents to the city who will be active contributors to their neighborhoods and who will, of course, contribute as taxpayers to the economic health of the city."
Cynthia Russett, a history professor, said that housing in New Haven is attractive because of lower prices than in the suburbs, and that the $20,000 from the university will make it even more attractive, "But," she said, "you also have to weigh that against the tax burden, the services that are delivered, and the school system."
Mr. Levin said the $20,000 incentive would have a greater effect on people buying lower-priced homes, like those on the edges of campus. A November 1993 Yale committee report on housing recommended that the university concentrate on rehabilitating the Park/Howe/Dwight neighborhood on the western edge of the campus. With a local property manager, the university bought an apartment building in that neighborhood in December and is upgrading the apartments.
Mr. Levin also announced the creation of a $5 million fund for investment in biomedical and biotech companies in the city. Yale will match dollar for dollar investments by selected venture capital firms in companies locating in New Haven's Science Park or any future center in the city.
The programs are part of a series of strategic Yale investments in the city. Yale is contributing $2 million toward a $6 million joint project with the city to revitalize a retail district near the center of campus. The university has invested $12.5 million in a $108 million project to rebuild and rehabilitate the downtown Ninth Square neighborhood. Yale also created the President's Public Service Fellowships to finance 20 students' community-service activities in New Haven during the summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (97%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); SUBURBS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); HISTORY (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SECOND MORTGAGES (53%); MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD C LEVIN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



494 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Shows a Brisk Recovery

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
Home construction snapped back smartly in March from midwinter weather doldrums as builders broke ground at a rate 12.1 percent faster than February's, the Commerce Department reported today.
Last month's annual pace of 1,473,000 new dwellings was somewhat brisker than expected and embraced all regions of the country, though half the advance was concentrated in the Midwest. 
 But higher interest rates were seen as already cutting into housing activity, and some specialists said today that the March pace might prove the strongest of 1994.
Warren Lasko, head of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, estimated that 250,000 potential buyers had been priced out of the market by the run-up that has lifted rates on conventional loans to 8 1/2 percent from a low of 6 3/4 percent in late October. Mr. Lasko predicted rates would be "creeping" above 9 percent in early 1995. Two percentage points on a typical $100,000 mortgage translates into $140 a month in higher payments.
A less pessimistic view was expressed by Robert R. Davis, chief economist for the Savings and Community Bankers of America, an association of savings institutions. He said the March pace could be sustained because affordability was not likely to be reduced enough to keep people from buying houses in a strong economy.
The Federal Reserve's drive to raise short-term interest rates, in fact, could allow mortgage rates to ease a bit during the second half of the year if markets are reassured about the prospects of keeping inflation in check, Mr. Davis added.
The March rebound in housing starts was attributed mainly to the return of normal weather from the especially harsh conditions that had earlier prevailed in the eastern part of the country. Starts also probably benefited from higher interest rates, goading some "fence sitters" into action before rates rose even further.
But the benefit of higher rates has now waned, said David F. Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. Any lingering effect "is going to be overwhelmed by the people filtered out" for not having enough income to qualify for higher-rate loans, mainly first-time buyers, he said.
Today's housing report was marked by an 11.3 percent advance in single-family starts, to a 1,247,000 annual pace, and a rare surge for apartment houses. Dwellings in buildings of five or more units jumped 20.5 percent, to a rate of 194,000, the most for any month in the last year except for December when builders rushed to take advantage of a restored tax credit for low-income housing.
Starts leaped 30.4 percent in the Midwest, to a 330,000 pace, but gains elsewhere were much smaller. Builders started 8.7 percent more homes in the West (a 375,000 pace), 8.4 percent more in the Northeast (142,000) and 7 percent more in the South (626,000).
The actual number of groundbreakings last month was 131,700, up 37.9 percent from the March 1993 total, the report also showed.
 
Permits Climb 5.1%
 Permits issued for home construction climbed 5.1 percent last month to a 1,314,000 annual pace, with the Northeast up 14.8 percent, the Midwest up 5.6 percent, the South up 5.3 percent and the West up 1.2 percent.
Although the number of permits is widely considered a gauge of future activity, Mr. Seiders of the home builders' group has found historic correlation to be poor. He points instead to the association's surveys of builders, which are now emitting storm warnings.
Only 38 percent of builders surveyed in April believe sales will be "good" over the coming six months, down from 48 percent in March and from 72 percent at the November 1993 peak.
Today's report also disclosed that producers of mobile homes shipped new units at a seasonally adjuted annual rate of 301,000 in February, 5 percent below January's 316,000.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" tracks new privazte housing started and permits authorized during each month, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, since October 1992. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA; SAVINGS AND COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%); SAVINGS & COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA; SAVINGS AND COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%); SAVINGS & COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); COMMUNITY BANKS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (60%); 

PERSON: LASKO, WARREN; DAVIS, ROBERT R; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ROBERT G DAVIS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



495 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Banks' Securities Trading Makes Comptroller Fearful

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
In a sharp policy shift, the Clinton Administration's top bank regulator expressed alarm today that the nation's biggest commercial banks were taking too many risks in trading stocks, bonds, foreign currencies and other financial instruments. He said new regulatory limits might be needed.
The official, Eugene A. Ludwig, the Comptroller of the Currency, criticized two related but distinct approaches banks have taken to expand their securities trading as traditional corporate lending operations have withered. One approach involves increasingly speculative trading operations; the other involves derivatives, which are complicated contracts that allow traders to bet on the direction of future price changes in stocks, bonds, currencies and other financial instruments. 
 Banks have bought and sold bonds and currencies for years to limit their losses if interest rates or exchange rates suddenly move in an unexpected direction, or to help customers find scarce bonds and currencies. But in recent years they have used more complicated financial instruments like derivatives for these purposes and have increasingly sought profits from trades unrelated to reducing risks or serving customers.
Mr. Ludwig, who oversees more than 3,000 federally chartered banks -- three-fifths of the banking industry -- expressed his worries today in a speech to the Exchequer Club, a group of economic policy makers, financial lobbyists and wealthy investors.
Until now, Administration and Federal Reserve officials have tended to play down Congressional concerns about bank trading practices and derivatives. It was unclear whether Mr. Ludwig was simply responding to Congressional pressures or actually intended to take quick action on banks. He would not elaborate on his speech.
Douglas E. Harris, a senior policy adviser to Mr. Ludwig, said that the Comptroller's office had become more worried about banks' trading risks after reviewing information the agency gathered in preparation for a House Banking Committee hearing last week.
Edward L. Yingling, the chief lobbyist for the American Bankers Association, said the industry trade group would oppose any move by the Comptroller's office or by Congress that would impose tougher limits on commercial banks than on insurance companies, securities firms and other financial services businesses that engage in securities trading. Special limits on commercial banks would put them at a competitive disadvantage, he said.
Mr. Ludwig said he was concerned about federally insured institutions whose failure might cost taxpayers money.
Mr. Ludwig said in his speech that limits might be needed on the size of bank trading desks that operate independently of such traditional bank operations as buying and selling for customers and reducing risk. He compared these trading desks to hedge funds, which are investment partnerships, usually of fewer than 100 wealthy investors, that borrow heavily to take highly speculative positions in securities and commodities.
About 6 Banks
 Mr. Ludwig had mentioned last week that six nationally chartered banks had trading desks that he considered speculative, but he refused then and today to identify them. Many banks have trading desks.
He also warned today that banks might not belong in the derivatives market at all, adding that banks accounted for $12 trillion of the $14 trillion market for derivatives in the United States.
"Because of our increasing concern about the risks posed by exotic and complex derivative instruments, we are looking at whether they are appropriate for national banks -- and, if so, to what extent they are appropriate, and whether we need to take further regulatory action on these instruments," Mr. Ludwig said.
Mr. Ludwig's comments today coincide with growing enthusiasm in the House Banking Committee for legislation concerning bank trading of derivatives. The committee's Democratic and Republican leaders have introduced separate bills requiring extensive bank disclosure to regulators of derivatives holdings, and raising the threat of barring from the banking industry any bank executives who fail to supervise derivatives trading adequately.
Mr. Ludwig said today that while he perceived no immediate threat to the financial soundness of big banks, his agency would nonetheless send out 20 pages of policy guidance to senior bankers next week and would consider drafting new regulations.
The guidance would consist of answers to commonly asked questions about the agency's position on derivatives, he said. Mr. Harris said that the new guidance would expand and elaborate on existing policy, but would not represent a change in direction.
The office of the Comptroller first issued guidance on derivatives trading to banks in October. But Mr. Ludwig said today that after subsequent Federal examinations of large banks, "We are still not comfortable with the extent of senior management and board knowledge and oversight of bank derivative instruments."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (64%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES BANKING & FINANCE (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: LUDWIG, EUGENE A (COMPTROLLER); YINGLING, EDWARD L; BRADSHER, KEITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



496 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues to Slump Along With Stock Prices

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled against the German mark yesterday for the third straight day as slumping stock prices eroded confidence in the American currency.
"The dollar has a bad aura about it because of the slump in stocks," said Steve Flanagan, a trader at Paine Webber. "Currency traders are quick to sell when they sense weakness like this." 
 In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6872 marks, down from 1.7001 marks on Tuesday. It was little changed at 103.05 Japanese yen, down from 103.20 yen.
Rising interest rates often buoy the dollar by making dollar-denominated assets more attractive. Instead, slumping stocks and bonds kept the dollar under wraps since February, when the Fed pushed up the Federal funds rate on overnight loans to banks. The Fed raised it to 3.75 percent from 3.5 percent on Monday. It was at 3 percent at the start of the year.
"The dollar is getting hurt because there's so much capital flowing out of the U.S.," said Frank Pusateri, a foreign-exchange adviser at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "People are scared out of their minds about what the Fed is going to do next."
 
German Rate Cut
 Even interest-rate cuts in Germany failed to lift the dollar from its torpor. The dollar languished after the Bundesbank cut its two-week securities repurchase rate to 5.58 percent from 5.70 percent. "Repos" are the most important means of refinancing for German banks, accounting for two-thirds of their short-term borrowing.
"People are wary of owning dollars," in part because the currency failed to rally with so many economic conditions on its side, said Dave Glowacki, senior trader at NBD Bank in Detroit.
Because German interest rates are still higher than American rates, it costs traders money to hold dollars against marks while they wait for the dollar currency to rally. Each day the dollar fails to rise, more traders sell off their dollar holdings.
Slumping European stock and bond prices also helped the mark gain against most major currencies today, traders said. Investors often buy the mark, a stable currency that offers high interest rates, when other markets falter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



497 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Lumber Prices Off Sharply After Early Rally Collapses

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Lumber futures reversed an early rally yesterday and fell the daily trading limit, extending a recent decline to six-month lows despite signs of a reviving housing market.
Initially, lumber for May delivery jumped its $10 daily limit after the Commerce Department reported that housing starts rose 12.1 percent, to 1.47 million units, in March from 1.31 million units the month before. 
 "Once the emotion of the housing numbers was over, the reality of burdensome inventories took over the marketplace," said Mike Young of Pacific Futures Trading.
The May lumber contract ended the maximum $10 lower at $316.90 for a thousand board feet, the lowest since mid-October at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Much of the increase in construction last month was expected as builders caught up after harsh winter weather brought activity to a virtual halt in the Northeast and Midwest.
Housing construction is still lagging behind the fourth quarter of last year, in part because of recent rises in interest rates that make it more expensive to borrow and build.
"The effect of higher interest rates down the road will have a negative impact on housing starts as we get on down the year," Mr. Young said.
In the cash market, spruce two-by-fours were officially quoted at $318 for a thousand board feet, down $5 from late last week. But unofficially, prices were as low as $300 in some areas.
"Futures are still overvalued, unless we get some cash activity," said Bud Merrill, forest products analyst for Smith Barney Shearson.
On other commodity markets, early worries about weather conditions pushed up corn and soybean prices, and oil prices rose in light trading.
At the Chicago Board of Trade, May soybeans rose 5.25 cents, to $6.66 a bushel, and the November contract, which corresponds to next fall's harvest, gained 8.25 cents, to $6.2125. May corn firmed 0.75 cent, to $2.605, and the December contract added 3 cents, to $2.5175, a bushel.
May crude oil rose to a five-month high before expiring at $16.82 a barrel, up 33 cents, at the New York Mercantile Exchange. June crude rose 20 cents, to $16.32.
Traders said the market was affected by technical trading strategies and buying related to the May contract's expiration.
May heating oil gained 0.23 cent, to 46.25 cents a gallon, while May unleaded gasoline lost 0.02 cent, to 48.78 cents a gallon, with gasoline prices still affected by rumors of European imports heading for the United States.
In addition, prices for oil products were under pressure because the level at which refineries were operating, as reported by the American Petroleum Institute late Tuesday, climbed two percentage points, to nearly 91 percent of capacity last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; HOUSING FUTURES (95%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (88%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (86%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GASOLINE (75%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



498 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Continue Improvement for 2d Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities gained for the second consecutive day yesterday as the market continued to improve after a selloff on Monday caused by the Federal Reserve Board's third interest rate increase of the year.
Gerald A. Guild, senior manager in charge of fixed-income securities at Advest Inc., said the market had suddenly realized that the economy was not as strong as expected, "as evidenced by the very large trade deficit numbers on Tuesday." He added, "The weakening of the economy would benefit the bond market because inflation would not be a consideration." 
 "However," he said, "I suspect the bond market may have hit a double bottom on Monday, and that long-term interest rates could decline from here as people start to realize that the Fed is serious about controlling inflation in the years ahead. It may have been a successful test of the peak in long-term interest rates at 7.41 percent, and technically interest rates could decline from this point as the market returns to fundamentals."
Analysts said investors' belief that the Fed would continue to raise rates had not allowed bonds to rally for weeks. That belief was reinforced by Wayne D. Angell, a former governor of the Fed and the chief economist for Bear, Stearns & Company, who said on CNBC yesterday that he expected the Fed to raise rates again in May.
 
Commodity Prices Drop
 A drop in commodity prices, working like a counterbalance to some of the market's negative tones, has been viewed by many market watchers as an indication of future inflation pressures. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of prices for 21 commodities, ranging from pork bellies to lumber, slipped below 220 yesterday for the first time since December, before finishing at 220.31.
"The drop in commodity prices suggest that prices paid for other goods will also decline, dampening chances of inflation," said James Hale, senior fixed-income strategist for MMS International in San Francisco.
By late in the day the 30-year bond was up 18/32 , to 876/32 , to yield 7.32 percent, down from 7.36 percent on Tuesday. Shorter-maturity bill rates were down slightly, as the short end of the market may be benefiting from the weakness in stocks.
Also yesterday, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said in testimony before a Senate committee that the recent rise in long-term interest rates could harm the economy if it was not reversed. "I am hoping we can cause them to settle down some," Mr. Bentsen said of the long-term rates. "Otherwise, they will have some dampening effect on growth."
Analysts said Mr. Bentsen's comments indicated that the economy had not been damaged by the three recent moves by the Fed to increase the Federal funds on overnight interbank loans.
 
Strong Housing Report
 Government securities also held their ground despite a relatively strong housing report for March, which some economists said might be a good indication that the market would consolidate at current levels.
The economists said the release on Tuesday of the higher-than-expected United States trade deficit had changed the market's sentiment about economic growth. Growth, which the consensus had expected to be 4 percent in the first quarter, has fallen to an estimate of about 3.50 percent or lower, economists said.
Traders were cautious in the early going, ahead of the announcement about the sizes of next week's two-year and five-year note auctions. The traders were waiting to see if another short-covering rally would give way to profit taking if the auctions got bigger, a signal that the Government's borrowing needs had grown. But the sizes of the auctions were unchanged.
In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.71 percent, and the five-year note was issued at a price to yield 6.63 percent.
 
Remarks by Economist
 Mr. Angell said on CNBC that the Fed's tightening was meant to insure that the economy did not grow strongly. He said the growth potential was greater than anticipated, and that the Fed had estimated gross domestic product growth potential at 3 percent, pointing out that the markets were pricing a Federal funds rate of 5.25 percent by December. The market believes the Fed's target is the current rate of 3.75 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December 1993. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); PORK (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOVERNORS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



499 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Furniture Throws A Romantic Curve

BYLINE: By ELAINE LOUIE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HIGH POINT, N.C., April 16

 BODY:
Teen-agers wearing cow and bull costumes were standing on street corners passing out leaflets on the glories of leather furniture. They were joined by a man wearing a fabric-covered sandwich board that looked like a mattress. But the 69,000 visitors to the Spring International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, a small city reveling in magnolias, dogwood and apple trees in full bloom, weren't there just to buy everyday furnishings.
At the nine-day market, which opened to the trade last Thursday, the 2,100 exhibitors were selling romance in the shape of furniture. Consumers will see the furniture in stores in six months. Unlike fashion shows, where the clothes shown on the runway are usually adapted for the stores (hemlines drop, for example), the furniture industry delivers to the stores what it shows at the market. 
 If the furniture industry has its way, Americans will be living like impoverished nobility next year. Sofas will be covered with a patchwork of brocade, chintz and canvas. Beds will have ornate headboards of woven metal, mosaics or rattan. (Footboards will be very low, for ease of television viewing.) Velvet pillows will be scattered everywhere.
Whether made of rattan, mahogany or metal, whether inspired by the 19th century or the mid-20th, furniture will be voluptuous and curvy, or it will have rich textures. Curves and lush texture signify romance. And romance spells money.
The "trashed palace" look -- as Ronnie Wells, the owner of Manderley, a furniture manufacturer in San Rafael, Calif., described what she saw at the market -- is a look of eclecticism and individuality.
"People are shopping for single items, buying the table one place, the chair someplace else," said Mark Hampton, the Manhattan interior decorator who designs for the Hickory (N.C.) Chair Company.
Customers aren't ordering matched sets. They aren't buying a style -- Chippendale or Danish modern. Instead, people are mixing different styles and coming up with their own style, call it "trashed palace" or "grandma's attic" -- and the more idiosyncratic the better.
"The tag is emotion," said Robert Currey, owner of Currey & Company, a furniture maker in Atlanta. Manufacturers want furniture buyers to feel like Rod Kreitzer, president of Baker Furniture in Grand Rapids, Mich., who said, laughing, "I've got stuff I'd give my wife up for."
For the industry, this is a period of rebuilding. As the economy soured, retail sales of furniture dropped from $36.9 billion in 1989 to $33.4 billion in 1991, according to the International Home Furnishings Marketing Association, sponsor of the market. The industry made up that loss only last year, said Jake Froehlich, a managing partner in Market Square, which owns 1.1 million square feet of showroom space, about a seventh of the market's total.
"Our customers, middle management, lost jobs," said William Merrill, the director of design at Hickory Chair. And when that happens, the first thing they stop buying is furniture and appliances, Mr. Hampton, the designer, said.
To try to lure customers back, Mr. Merrill said, "we go around adding moldings and palm trees and whirring fans -- moods." Under one of those fans in Hickory Chair's showroom was Mr. Hampton's voluptuous wicker lounge chair ($1,535) and matching ottoman ($725.)
Several blocks away, in the Market Square building, was Francisco Pinedo's sofa upholstered in brocade, cotton ticking and flowered chintz, designed for Cisco & Brothers in Los Angeles ($2,200). In the same building, Ms. Wells of Manderley, similarly inspired, showed an overstuffed armchair covered in a faded pink floral with a celery and ecru stripe and brown velvet piping ($1,600).
In the Commerce and Design building, Robert Williams's overstuffed sofa ($1,300) for Designline Ltd. in Taylorsville, N.C., was upholstered in brocade, chintz and linen.
"The best mix is when the fabrics blend monochromatically," said Peri Wolfman, an owner of Wolfman-Gold and Good Company, a store in SoHo. "It's easiest to live with in the long run."
To light the new eclectic rooms, Zev Vaughn, the president of Public Domain, a manufacturer in Manhattan, designed a crystal chandelier he called Twisted Venetian. Made from a spiral shaft of handblown glass with flexible metal arms and garlands of crystal teardrops, the chandelier looked like the creation of Mad King Ludwig of Bavaria let loose in a Venetian glass studio ($2,500).
Along with chandeliers gone askew, there was gilt gone frivolous. In the basement of the International Home Furnishings Center were thrones designed by Angele Parlange and William Sonner of New Orleans. In a booth covered in billowing lengths of shocking-pink silk, they offered a chair with a hand-carved, cross-shaped back of gilded poplar and a seat of red velvet ($1,800).
The most emphasized piece of furniture at the market was the most essential: the bed, overscaled and romantic, yet striking. Dakota Jackson, a Manhattan designer who was a study in monochromatic sartorial splendor in a gray suit just a shade darker than his silver-gray hair, offered a sleek and modern but richly textured bed of woven metal ($2,900) in his first collection for the Lane Company of Altavista, Va.
For customers who want to design their own furniture, Ercole, a Manhattan company specializing in mosaics, offered a lacy metal headboard with a mosaic medallion that can be custom-designed ($1,500 for the headboard, $2,400 for a complete frame).
In its first mass-market collection, Parish-Hadley, the Manhattan interior design firm, introduced a deep red lacquered four-poster with metal finials in the shape of plumes ($5,168) for Baker Furniture. An antique star quilt made the formal-looking bed cozy.
If palaces and attics were in the spotlight, so were the 1940's and 50's, especially the designs of Isamu Noguchi. The boomerang table, an icon of mid-century modern design inspired by Noguchi, was shown twice, in mahogany with spun-aluminum legs ($930 at Milling Road, a division of Baker Furniture), and in double-tiered glass ($325 by Bill Becker, the president of BDI in Chantilly, Va.).
For Marty and Nancy Tucker, the owners of Tucker Design in Wilder, Vt., the market transcends romance. They met at the fall market in 1989, married and have worked together ever since. Asked how long they have been together, Ms. Tucker responded, "For nine markets."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronnie Wells's "trashed palace" look at High Point. (pg. C1); Mark Hampton's lounge chair and ottoman.; Zev Vaughn and his Twisted Venetian chandelier.; Gilded chair by Angele Parlange and William Sonner.; The retro look is back: boomerang table of double-tiered glass by Bill Becker for BDI.; Lacy iron headboard with mosaic medallion custom-designed by Ercole. (pg. C10) Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CURREY & CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HIGH POINT (NC); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS FABRICS (90%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE MFG (89%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); FASHION SHOWS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); WOOD CABINET MFG (71%); TRADE SHOWS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); SALES FIGURES (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); 

PERSON: LOUIE, ELAINE MARK HAMPTON (69%); RONNIE WELLS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



500 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
Confessions of a Former Alarmist

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
Here's a how-de-do! A network news special that makes light of the perils on which network news specials thrive. ABC's "Are We Scaring Ourselves to Death?" is a sharp expose of exposes about crime, pollution and other television favorites.
Leading the charge is a repentant sinner. In a mea culpa before an audience at Seton Hall University, John Stossel, who made his reputation as a consumer-affairs reporter, admits to having played up such transient worries as train accidents, lawn chemicals and coffee makers. But he has found the light and now maintains that in addition to raising blood pressures, the incessant scaremongering feeds public misapprehension and leads to the misallocation of public money. 
 His evidence is mainly statistical. Whatever impression you may get from television, for example, crime, including violent crime, is not rising. (The program includes a clip from a "20/20" segment, reported by one John Stossel, about "criminals dressed like cops, getting away with murder and robbery and rape.") Older Americans, who express the most nervousness about crime, maybe because they watch more news programs, actually have the least to worry about. (Although his targets have changed, Mr. Stossel cannot quite shake off news-magazine hyperbole. Now he is warning of the perils to the affluent elderly of living in "gated communities," which he describes as "fortresses like something out of the Middle Ages.")
The people who ought to be worried, and worried about, says Mr. Stossel, are black male teen-agers in the inner cities; their chances of being on the receiving end of violence are stunningly high.
Popular dangers that you need not lose sleep over abound. Mr. Stossel makes a case, for example, that the reaction to asbestos-flaking in New York City schools was overwrought but that no politician or official dared say so in the face of parental concern, stirred up by local television news. The expensive attempt to remove the asbestos, he says, not only may have spread the stuff into the air, but may also have subjected some children to more palpable dangers by leaving them on the streets while the schools were closed. (He does not go so far as to assert that the children may have been deprived of learning something in the classrooms.)
Also noted, as the debunking proceeds, is the lack of evidence of increased cancer at Love Canal, the object of much hand wringing by television reporters, and the unjustified agitation over the use of Alar on apples, stirred up by "60 Minutes." Mr. Stossel suggests, too, that the cost of tamper-proof packages is as excessive as the commotion about a few instances of contamination. (Not counting the damage to fingers and psyches in the efforts to open them.)
Particular attention is given to a lead-infested site in Aspen, Colo., that has made the Environmental Protection Agency's Superfund list. The agency wants to remove 150 houses, and dig up and dispose of tons of earth. In a striking reversal of the usual environmental scare story, this ambitious project has so far been blocked by residents who, besides not wanting to be bothered, argue that the lead, which has been in the ground for 100 years, has not been shown to have hurt anybody. (Just as pictures of stricken children are customarily used to arouse emotions about the risk of the hour, so pictures of healthy children are presented here as a testament to the harmless or beneficial nature of the lead.)
Despite the evidence, officials tell Mr. Stossel they are still determined to go ahead with their earth moving, possibly in accord with the principle that once an agency has been given the power and money to do something, facts must not be allowed to get in the way.
Mr. Stossel also engages in an amusing exchange with Ralph Nader, who has evidently never met a product he liked. Here he warns against hot dogs, carpets, chickens and coffee, including some sorts of decaffeinated coffee. He is also not wild about flying.
For viewers in need of serious things to worry about, Mr. Stossel offers automobile accidents, smoking, falling down stairs and, especially, poverty. He maintains, much like business spokesmen, that regulations to prevent minor or imagined risks are a brake on the economy and that the money would be better used to create jobs.
After the hourlong report, Mr. Stossel gives the regulators and health campaigners in the audience an opportunity to respond to his argument that "since your rules probably made America a little poorer, might you have killed people in the name of safety?" (Viewers may add a new worry of their own. What will Mr. Stossel do with himself now that he has abjured his calling?)
You don't have to agree with Mr. Stossel on all particulars to welcome tonight's program as a breath of good sense in the fear-and-trembling atmosphere of much television news. The evening's lesson: Don't panic about decaf, but try not to swallow too much Ralph Nader.
 
Are We Scaring Ourselves to Death?
ABC, tonight at 10
(Channel 7 in New York)
 
A special produced by Jeff Diamond for ABC News; anchor and reporter, John Stossel; Victor Neufeld, executive producer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ARE WE SCARING OURSELVES TO DEATH (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (57%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (57%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CHILDREN (86%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); MURDER (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); ASBESTOS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); CITIES (64%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (62%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (55%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER JOHN STOSSEL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



501 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia: A Promising Package

 BODY:
If the new military and diplomatic moves announced by President Clinton yesterday afternoon win endorsement from NATO and Russian leaders, they will constitute the most promising international initiative yet to bring the two-year-old Bosnian war to a workable diplomatic settlement.
The package includes proposals for extending the kind of NATO air threats that now protect Sarajevo to the other five U.N.-declared protected cities, tightening enforcement of international economic sanctions against Serbia and taking unspecified steps to better coordinate U.S., European and Russian diplomacy. Formal NATO endorsement of the package is considered likely and Russian approval is at least a strong possibility. 
 As the President made clear, the objective is not to defeat the Serbs, or even roll back all their forcible gains, but to make them "pay a higher price" until they agree to negotiate in good faith.
The "Sarajevo formula" of demanding the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the safe zones and backing that demand with the threat of air strikes worked in Sarajevo in February, and can work again, especially with Russian endorsement and support. That is where the plans for new diplomatic coordination come in.
Protecting all six U.N.-declared havens is urgent for more than just humanitarian regions. Holding those Muslim and mixed areas outside of Serbian military control is essential to the design of any workable territorial settlement.
Tighter enforcement of economic sanctions is a worthwhile though less immediately significant step. It is certainly a more appropriate response to Serbian duplicity than the earlier European proposal for a phased easing of the embargo in return for marginal Serb diplomatic concessions.
All along, the Clinton Administration's performance on Bosnia has been better than it looked. True, its public diplomacy has been maddeningly vague and its military tactics questionable. The Serbian penetration of Gorazde has been, like so much of the Bosnia war, a humanitarian disaster, this time with the added element of public humiliation of the U.N. and NATO.
Yet consider what the Clinton Administration has done right over the past 15 months. Almost alone, it resisted cynical European schemes for an enforced peace at the expense of the principal victims, until finally the Europeans became more evenhanded. It has advocated, though not energetically enough, an end to the U.N. arms embargo that prevents the Bosnian Government from adequately defending itself.
It has held out against an unwise commitment of U.S. ground troops to what would have been a mission impossible of enforcing a peace no Bosnian faction sincerely accepted. And it has understood all along that air strikes are not a magic formula capable of instantly reversing the fortunes of war.
As a result of the Clinton Administration's policies, the Serbs are now more isolated internationally and the U.S., Western Europe and Russia are closer to coordinating their policies than ever before in this war.
Even now, as NATO prepares to widen its air cover, a diplomatic rather than military solution must remain the goal. The object, put crudely, is to bomb the Serbs to the peace table and to preserve the integrity of all six U.N.-declared safe havens.
That will stir up bad memories from the Vietnam War, when the Johnson Administration's efforts to bomb its Vietnamese enemy to the peace table ended in disaster. Since that time, the Pentagon has argued that Washington's only military choices are massive intervention or no intervention at all. That is an unrealistic straitjacket for a global power; it is time to discard it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMS EMBARGOES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ARMS TRADE (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



502 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Singapore's Drug Policy Cuts Addiction

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I have just returned from a fact-finding trip to Singapore. The aim was to study first hand the drug policy of this city state. During my stay, I did not observe any of the features of a totalitarian regime, which were reported April 10, and which I experienced first hand as a youth in occupied France (1940-44) where imprisonment or deportation to death camps punished the mere expression of dissent. 
 In Singapore I read daily The International Herald Tribune and The Wall Street Journal, and noted that Time, Newsweek and The Economist were prominently displayed on newsstands. If The Straits Times of Singapore does not openly criticize government policies, it does not heap praise on government officials or the senior minister and it does not toe a propaganda line. It is a well-informed, cogent publication, with a comprehensive coverage of world news. I never felt the pervasive oppression prevailing in Nazi occupied countries or in those of the Soviet bloc, which I visited from 1947 to 1980.
If the drug policy of Singapore imposes the death penalty on traffickers, its main feature is a most comprehensive and costly compulsory rehabilitation program for former heroin addicts in specialized centers aimed at preparing the addict for a drug-free life. Such remedial training imposes on the trainees strict discipline and offers them a choice of highly structured workshops, including university courses, music, construction trades and computer technology. Competent civilian specialists teach the different courses and award state-recognized diplomas. The results of such a policy are positive. The number of drug addicts has decreased from 8,000 in 1980 to 4,000 at present in a population of 3 million.
In New York, with 10 million inhabitants, the number of addicts might be conservatively estimated at 150,000, and many of them 14 to 18 years old. Over 1,500 deaths by overdose are reported in a year.
There is no unemployment in Singapore, and continuous economic expansion; people enjoy social benefits which compare favorably to the United States.
 
GABRIEL G. NAHAS, M.D.
New York, April 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS DRUG POLICY (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEROIN (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); DEPORTATION (56%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (52%); 

PERSON: NAHAS, GABRIEL G (DR)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



503 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: The Massacres in Rwanda: Hope Is Also a Victim

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, April 20

 BODY:
Tiny Rwanda has never been strategically significant in world politics. But for more than two decades this poor, overpopulated central African country has been a successful laboratory for foreign aid.
Its small size, cooperative government, relative lack of corruption and excellent roads, telephone systems and electric utilities attracted hundreds of millions of dollars to test development projects and made the country largely dependent on international generosity. 
 But after two weeks in which tens of thousands of people have been massacred and thousands of Europeans and Americans have fled, much of Rwanda's gains have been threatened or lost. Even if stability is restored quickly, the hope of reclaiming the agricultural or industrial achievements in less than five years appears bleak.
The killing and the anarchy have now spread beyond Kigali, the capital, destroying the West's efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights, the quid pro quo for aid in Africa in recent years. For the moment, several hundred million dollars of aid has been suspended. Without foreign aid workers, many programs have stopped.
Faced first with the crisis caused by the hundreds of thousands of refugees, Rwanda must also replace an educated elite of Rwandans who have fled or have been killed.
 
Short Term Is Bleak
 Diplomats and aid officials are also unsure of Rwanda's ability to maintain a stable democracy. They fear Rwanda may become another Somalia, whose society has been so torn apart by civil war that it is barely able to survive.
"They will have to start again on Square 1," said Armon Hartmann, head of the Eastern and Southern African section of the Swiss Development Cooperation, a major donor. "They will have to prove to us that they can qualify for our technical assistance. To come back to the level we had just a few weeks ago could take four or five years."
But in Kigali the violence continues. Rwandan police officers executed 16 people today who were pulled from more than 5,000 refugees huddled in the national stadium, The Associated Press reported. On Tuesday, Rwandan Army troops shelled the stadium, killing 40.
Hundreds of United Nations peacekeepers also withdrew today, reducing the contingent of 2,500 by half, The A.P. said. Among those who left were more than 450 Belgians, 213 Bangladeshis and 144 Ghanaians. The Security Council, preoccupied with Bosnia, has taken no decisive action on Rwanda since the killing began two weeks ago.
 
The Warring Parties
 The fighting, provoked by a suspicious plane crash on April 6 that killed the Presidents of Rwanda and neighboring Burundi, both Hutu, has been fed by tribal hatred between the majority Hutu and the minority Tutsi.
But the killing, at least in its initial stages, was mostly politically motivated, set off by hard-line Hutu who disapproved of a new Government that integrated Hutu and Tutsi.
"There is a determination to dominate politically," said David Rawson, the United States Ambassador to Rwanda, who was evacuated home last week. "It is heart rending -- the beauty of the whole place, the responsiveness of the people, their desire for a better life, for democracy and development, set against this intense struggle to dominate, a struggle for political power.
"If you get into a stalemate and trench warfare in which the country totally exhausts itself and there is anarchy in the countryside, then we could have taken a step backward into Somalia."
 
Poverty Breeds Dependence
 With about 8 million inhabitants in 10,169 square miles, Rwanda is one of the world's poorest countries, the second most densely populated after Bangladesh. With an economy more than 90 percent agricultural, nearly every bit of land is under cultivation. In 1992, it had a gross national product of $1.6 billion and a debt of $873 million, and more than 50 percent of its budget was covered by foreign aid.
Belgium, a former colonial power and one of the biggest donors, provided about $30 million a year in the late 1980's and early 90's, followed by France, Germany and Switzerland. The United States provided $20 million a year in development aid until last year, when the figure fell to $14 million as Washington switched its funds to assistance for the hundreds of thousands of refugees created by the simmering civil wars in both Rwanda and Burundi.
Since the beginning of the civil war in 1990, foreign donors have been putting increasing pressure on the Government to make peace with the rebels of the Rwandan Patriotic Front, most of whom are Tutsi.
"This country was conscious of its situation and that it needed foreign help to survive," said a senior Belgian diplomat in Nairobi. "After such a disaster, it will take some time to re-establish relations."
 
Putting Aid to Good Use
 Rwanda has attracted donors for many reasons. Its needs are desperate, but the country is small enough that the impact of aid can be quickly seen. Communications were good, and rural development was a Government priority.
"It was a country with a very good record, proposing and implementing development activities," Ambassador Rawson said. "Obviously our democratization efforts aren't getting very far. If only we could somehow get a cease-fire, if you could find a number of qualified people still living or bring them back from abroad."
But to many of the relief workers evacuated last week and now waiting in Nairobi in the hope of eventually providing food, medical care and other assistance, the biggest hurdle is not winning back donors but recreating an atmosphere of confidence among the Rwandans.
"There will be a lack of trust among Rwandans," said Steve Wallace, field director in Rwanda for CARE International. "I don't think people will be wanting to work together and move the society ahead. There was a huge investment of time, effort and money. Many of the development projects will be casualties of this episode. It is pretty depressing."


CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about Rwanda misidentified the group responsible for shelling a stadium on Tuesday, killing 40 refugees. As the article pointed out, the shells were fired by the Rwandan Army, not by rebel forces.
 A front-page picture yesterday, showing wounded Rwandans, carried an erroneous credit in some editions. It was by The Associated Press.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Red Cross representative tallying the dead on Tuesday after rebels in Rwanda shelled a stadium in the capital that was packed with refugees. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Rwanda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RWANDA (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (92%); GHANA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (78%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; AFRICA; ; RWANDA (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (92%); GHANA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID; TUTSI TRIBE; HUTU TRIBE; AGRICULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REFUGEES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); ARMIES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TRENDS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (57%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (57%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



504 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Athenian Games

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan is author of "Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Rarely has a state visit threatened to do more damage to American interests than that of the Greek Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, which begins today. President Clinton should publicly reproach Greece for its economic embargo against the Republic of Macedonia and get a firm commitment that the Greek leader will stop coddling Serbia.
The Greeks are upset over Macedonia's name, which they consider the exclusive property of their northernmost region, over its constitution, which promises protection for Macedonians outside its borders, and over its flag, which contains the Hellenistic 16-pointed star. Mr. Papandreou's predecessor as Prime Minister, the conservative Constantine Mitsotakis, played on the dispute to retain his thin parliamentary majority. But Mr. Papandreou, with a healthy advantage in the parliament, doesn't have that excuse. 
 He takes on the airs of a modern socialist in the tradition of the late Swedish Prime Minister, Olaf Palme. But he is more like the late Argentineleader Juan Peron: a gutter populist. In the 1980's, he railed against U.S. airbases on Greek soil, calling them "American bases of death," and condemned Poland's Solidarity movement as "dangerously negative." He aided Muslim terrorists, refusing to extradite killers and allowing the Abu Nidal terrorist group to set up a logistical and financial base in downtown Athens.
With the cold war over, Mr. Papandreou has replaced his anti-Americanism with national chauvinism, stirring up support by destabilizing Macedonia, one of the few states in post-Communist Europe with a truly multiethnic Government.
Mr. Papandreou is a tried-and-true ally of the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, and the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic -- both all but convicted war criminals. He was the only NATO leader not to support the NATO ultimatum that ended the Serbs' siege of Sarajevo. And Greece has been a major sanctions-buster, exporting oil and other goods to Serbia in violation of the United Nations embargo.
Shortly after receiving his invitation to the White House earlier this year, Mr. Papandreou slapped the trade embargo on Macedonia, which is decimating the new country's economy. This is not to say that the Greeks' argument over Macedonia's name lacks merit. But to impose sanctions against a state that poses no military threat and is protected in part by hundreds of American soldiers is a hostile act toward the U.S.
Yet under pressure from prominent Greek-Americans, President Clinton has continually appeased Greece. He has not fulfilled his promise, made in February, to establish full diplomatic relations with Macedonia. In response to open criticism from the State Department, Administration officials have said Mr. Clinton will be tough in private negotiations with Mr. Papandreou. Yet the mere appearance of the two men, smiling together in the Rose Garden, will send the wrong signal to the Balkans -- a part of the Mideast where appearances are often everything.
Worse, the White House has scheduled Mr. Papandreou's visit on the anniversary of the 1967 military coup in Athens and near to Greek Orthodox Easter, both emotionally charged dates on the Greek calendar. This will further enhance Mr. Papandreou's prestige with his countrymen.
If Mr. Clinton hopes to retain any shred of credibility he may have left in the Balkans, he must get Mr. Papandreou to stop strangling Macedonia and aiding Serbia. Otherwise, if war erupts in the next few years in Macedonia and neighboring Kosovo, the Clinton-Papandreou meeting will appear in hindsight much like the 1990 meeting between Saddam Hussein and the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie, that inadvertently gave Iraq a green light to invade Kuwait.
The last thing the Administration needs, while attempting a new military and diplomatic initiative in the Balkans, is to appear weak and conflicted. That is precisely what a visit from Mr. Papandreou, without significant Greek concessions, would do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (97%); GREECE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); GREECE; MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (97%); GREECE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREECE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MACEDONIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MILITARY BASES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); EXTRADITION (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); WAR CRIMES (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, ROBERT D; PAPANDREOU, ANDREAS (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994



505 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Service Union And Buildings Reach Accord

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
Apartment house owners and the union representing doormen, porters and handymen reached a tentative agreement on a new three-year contract yesterday, averting a strike that would have left front desks, elevators and garbage in the hands of tenants or temporary workers.
Union leaders and officials from the owners' bargaining group, the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, said that wages and other economic issues were the main sticking point in the all-night bargaining session. 
 The talks ended shortly before 7 A.M. with an agreement on what the owners said was a 9.5 percent increase in wages and benefits over the life of the contract, a figure that real-estate specialists said was unlikely to jolt landlords' ledgers or the dollar-conscious budgets of co-ops and condominiums where union members work.
"What these numbers will do to the overall maintenance of individual apartments will be very small," said Clark P. Halstead, the managing partner of the Halstead Property Company, a Manhattan brokerage concern. "Everyone needs some modest raise, and this isn't even in accord with the cost of living. By those standards, this is modest."
 
Handymen and Superintendents
 The contract that expired at midnight yesterday, negotiated in 1991 after a 12-day strike, provided annual increases averaging about 4 percent. The new contract calls for wage increases averaging about 2 percent a year. The union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, said most workers would receive an extra $10 a week this year, another $10 next year and $12 in the final year of the contract. That will increase a doorman's salary to $528 a week this year, $538 in 1995 and $550 in 1996.
Handymen will receive a raise of $12 a week this year, another $12 a week next year and a $14-a-week increase in 1996. Superintendents' salaries will increase $13 a week this year, $12 a week in 1995 and $14 a week in 1996.
 
Anger Among Rank and File
 But some of the local's 30,000 rank-and-file members, who work at 2,800 rental, cooperative and condominium buildings in four of the five boroughs, grumbled that the deal was inadequate. Apartment-house employees in the Bronx are represented by a different local; workers in commercial buildings and housing projects run by the New York City Housing Authority are covered by different contracts.
"Ten bucks a week: I don't think it's fair," said Joe Pappas, a doorman at 327 Central Park West, at 93d Street. "With taxes taken out, you clear about $6 or $7. It costs more than that just to come to work. I'd have given up two sick days to get more money in my salary."
Ratification, though, by a 41-person committee instead of the rank and file appeared to be a virtual certainty. Dennis Sheehan, a spokesman for the union, said the committee fanned out through the city yesterday, visiting union members at the buildings where they work "to get a sense of how they feel" about the terms of the deal.
The negotiations reflected the evolution of the residential real-estate industry in the 1980's. When building service workers walked off their jobs in 1979, the strikers and most of the people who lived in the buildings where they worked shared the same foe: the landlord.
This time, as in 1991, apartment dwellers are often the owners. The 1980's co-op and condominium conversion boom shifted the balance of power on the owners' bargaining team.
 
Longer Probation Time
 Co-op and condominium owners have a personal investment in their buildings and day-to-day relationships with the members of Local 32B-32J, who keep track of residents' lives as well as their comings and goings, feeding their pets, watering their plants and bringing their dry cleaning to their doors. As a result, co-op and condominium owners might be more willing than rental landlords to let their desire for service override pocketbook issues.
Another aspect of the new contract is a longer probation period for new workers: 60 days instead of 30 under the old contract.
Owners maintained that they had raised other issues in the negotiations that could be brought up again in 1996, including a possible two-tier wage system under which new workers would be paid less than the experienced ones they replace.
While two-tier wages have not been uncommon in corporate labor settlements in the 1990's, another issue on some owners' minds was peculiar to the Local 32B-32J negotiations: summer employees.
Under the contract, replacements for vacationing workers are paid at full salary, even though the substitutes are often college students. Some owners say they should not be paid as much as full-time workers who have families. But others familiar with the negotiations say the issue is not so clear-cut: some building workers spend their vacations moonlighting as relief employees in other buildings. Their earnings would drop if replacements were paid less than regular doormen and porters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny Galvin, a doorman at 700 Park Avenue near 70th Street, showed his pleasure after the union representing doormen, porters and handymen reached a tentative contract accord with apartment house owners. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REALTY ADVISORY BOARD; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (69%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REALTY ADVISORY BOARD; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (79%); RENTAL PROPERTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STRIKES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



506 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Charges that Joseph Jett executed an elaborate scheme to create $350 million in phantom profits, inflate his own bonus and conceal $100 million in losses while he was a top trader at Kidder, Peabody are a nasty twist in the plot of what was apparently a Horatio Alger tale for the 1990's. [Page D1.] 
 Stocks surged in extremely heavy trading after a three-day slump. The Dow rose 53.83 points, to 3,652.54. [D1.]
Short-selling activity climbed in the month that ended on April 8, the New York and American Stock exchanges reported. [D5.]
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen amid speculation that world economic leaders might curb the yen's rise. [D15.]
Oil prices posted solid gains amid expectations that the U.S. economy would increase its demand for petroleum products. [D15.]
Yields of Government securities fell for the third consecutive day, as inflation concerns eased in the bond market. [D17.]
 
Companies
Teledyne agreed to pay a $112.5 million fine to settle two lawsuits by former employees who accused the company of defrauding the Government. The settlement is one of the largest payments ever by a military contractor to settle whistle-blower lawsuits. [D1.]
Ford announced its most sweeping reorganization in more than 25 years, in a bid to compete better in Europe and North America, and in the potentially huge markets developing in Asia. [D1.]
Electronic Payment Services agreed to open its network of automated bank tellers, the biggest regional system in the U.S., to new rivals, avoiding prosecution by the Justice Department on monopoly charges. [D1.]
I.B.M. reported surprisingly strong first-quarter profits, prompting a wave of buying on Wall Street that increased the computer company's stock price by nearly 12 percent. [D4.]
Sears, Roebuck posted a first-quarter loss, as strong gains from the company's merchandising group were offset by insurance losses at Allstate. [D2.]
Petrie Stores announced a plan to separate its 1,700 women's clothing shops from its $1.4 billion stake in Toys "R" Us, and pass the value of that stake on to shareholders free of tax consequences. [D4.]
Neiman Marcus selected Burton Tansky, chairman and chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman, to head the Neiman Marcus store chain. [D4.]
 Dell Computer might face losses from financial derivatives, but its exposure will be nowhere near the $350 million that had been rumored on Wall Street. [D17.]
 
The Economy
The Treasury Department issued new regulations that bar huge profits from the sales of Federally chartered savings institutions and impose other limits. [D2.]
 
International
The I.M.F.'s $1.5 billion loan to Russia is recognition that the new centrist Russian Government is working to cut inflation and stabilize the economy. News Analysis. [A12.]
 
Today's Columns
California's plan to open the state's utility companies to more competition will have an impact nationwide. Market Place. [D6.]
A growing number of campaigns are portraying the products they promote as forbidden fruit. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC PAYMENT SERVICES INC (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); ALLSTATE CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INSURANCE (74%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (69%); JAPANESE YEN (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (50%); 

PERSON: BURTON M TANSKY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



507 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Ford Revamps With Eye on the Globe

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., April 21

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company today announced its most sweeping reorganization in more than 25 years, in a bid to compete better in the coming decades not only in its established European and North American markets, but in the potentially huge car and truck markets developing in Asia.
At the end of the year, Ford's North American Operations and Ford of Europe will vanish, merging into a single operating unit, Ford Automotive Operations, with global reach. Ford's Asian-Pacific and Latin American Operations will remain separate at least until the other, more extensive operations are merged, Ford officials said. 
 In creating the new structure, Alexander J. Trotman, Ford's British-born chairman and chief executive, is seeking to leverage the No. 2 auto maker's mammoth size -- Ford has plants in 30 countries and more than 322,000 employees worldwide -- to cut the costs of materials and other development expenses. As a result, he said today, Ford will more cheaply and quickly produce a wider variety of cars and trucks for diverse markets, from Michigan to Malaysia.
Mr. Trotman is addressing a chronic criticism of Ford: that its vehicle development process is unwieldy and wasteful. He is also realizing plans to streamline Ford's worldwide operations that he began dreaming up 25 years ago as a product planner in England. "It's a worldwide business," Mr. Trotman said.
But he is also placing a gigantic bet on the success of an ideal vehicle known as the "world car." Such a car can be sold in large numbers around the planet, with modifications for local tastes and regulations regarding styling, performance and emissions.
While many auto industry analysts praised Ford for tackling the waste in its development programs, some raised doubts about the feasibility of world cars. Indeed, many have called Ford's most recent effort at a world car -- the European Mondeo sedan and its American cousins, the Ford Contour and Mercury Mystique -- grossly inefficient.
In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, Ford stock closed up $1.25 a share, to $55.625, in active trading. Other auto stocks also rose; General Motors shares increased 75 cents each, to $55.375, and shares of the Chrysler Corporation jumped $2, to $48.
Under its new organization plan, Ford plans to establish centers dedicated to developing specific types of vehicles that Ford will sell worldwide. Ford has run virtually distinct operations that create and sell different cars and trucks in different markets. By contrast, the new center in Europe -- divided between Dunton, England, and Merkenich, Germany -- will develop Ford's small, front-wheel-drive cars, like the Escort, for sale not just in Europe and America, but in Asia, too.
In addition to the new "Vehicle Program Center" in Europe, Ford will create centers in North America for large front-wheel-drive cars like the Taurus; for rear-wheel-drive cars like the Crown Victoria; for personal trucks like the Explorer sport utility vehicle, and for commercial trucks.
"We're going to combine the resources of a large and very successful company with the speed and responsiveness of a small company," Mr. Trotman said. "This, of course, will assure a better return for our stockholders and a more certain future for all the employees of the Ford Motor Company, and, we believe, much better product, and a wider array of product, for all of our customers around the world."
 The changes are intended to wring out duplication and other inefficiencies, such as designing similar engines from scratch for different markets, Mr. Trotman said. Because Ford's product line is set through 1998, little evidence of the changes will be seen outside the company until the end of the decade. By then, Mr. Trotman said, the savings to Ford should be at least $2 billion to $3 billion a year.
To manage the new organization, Ford elevated Edward E. Hagenlocker to the new position of president of Ford Automotive Operations. Mr. Hagenlocker, a soft-spoken Midwestern engineer with a passion for light trucks, is now the head of Ford's North American Operations. Wayne Booker, who is currently executive vice president for International Automotive Operations, will remain in charge of Asia-Pacific and Latin American operations, although Ford officials said the company would be considering merging those units with Mr. Hagenlocker's operations.
 
 
Gaining an Edge in Europe
 Ford's last reorganization of this magnitude was the creation of Ford of Europe in 1967, a move that helped to consolidate disparate operations on the Continent and in Britain. The move gave Ford a competitive advantage in Europe over its archrival, G.M., but Ford's edge has dulled in recent years.
One important effect of the reorganization announced today should be to hand more power to the people who run individual car and truck development programs, creating a system similar to the one that has worked well for Chrysler, said David E. Cole, director of the University of Michigan's Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation. In the past at Ford, Mr. Cole said, too much power was concentrated in functional groups, like engine development, that could keep program leaders from getting the people and help they needed.
 In putting his stamp on the company, Mr. Trotman is taking on several challenges. Not least is shaking up a huge organization -- Ford had $108.4 billion in sales and revenue last year -- during fat times. Mr. Trotman has said that the domestic auto makers' recent comeback has had more to do with the business cycle than with fundamental change within the companies.
Even more significant is the challenge of building world cars. "In this there is sort of a concept that the world is moving to a standard car," said Maryann Keller, auto industry analyst with Furman Selz, an investment banking firm in New York City. "It isn't."
Toyota, for example, is widely credited with selling similar cars worldwide. But Toyota controls only 9 percent of the United States car market, Ms. Keller noted. To gain more, it would need more products -- like a large rear-wheel-drive car similar to the Ford Crown Victoria -- that it could not sell in large volumes elsewhere, she said. Further, Toyota's most successful car here, the Camry, does not do nearly so well in other markets, Ms. Keller said.
"The question is not, 'Can you sell something around the world?' " she said. "The question is, 'Can you maximize your sales in each country that you choose to participate in?' "
 Ford hopes to sell a combined total of 800,000 of the Mondeo, Contour and Mystique sedans a year. But the Mondeo cost $6 billion to develop, an extraordinary amount. The development of Chrysler's new Neon subcompact, admittedly a smaller project, cost $1.3 billion.
Mr. Trotman emphasized today that very few Ford employees would be affected in the short term by the shake-up. He said growth in sales would absorb increases in productivity, making layoffs unlikely.
One notable employee whose career will change is William C. Ford Jr., a great-grandson of Henry Ford and one of two Ford descendants at the company. William Ford will head the new commercial use truck center, a position that should give him much greater visibility within the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward E. Hagenlocker, the new president of Ford Automotive Operations, speaking yesterday at a news conference where Ford announced its most sweeping reorganization in more than 25 years. (Associated Press) (pg. D2)
 
Map/Diagram: "A Worldwide Reach"
 Ford Motor Company will create a single automotive operation worldwide with five vehicle development centers. Four centers in the United States will focus on larger cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles. The fifth center will be split between Ford's existing design centers in Dunton, England, and Merkenich, Germany. The idea is to develop specific types of cars that Ford will sell worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); ENGLAND (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); ENGLAND (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; TROTMAN, ALEXANDER DAVID FORD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



508 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Dramatic Rise, and a Nasty Fall

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR with DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

 BODY:
To all appearances, Joseph Jett's life was a Horatio Alger tale for the 1990's. Studious, from a small town in the Midwest and armed only with brains and drive, he pulled himself to the top of Wall Street, commanding a trading desk and earning $9 million in a single year.
The fact that this dramatic rise was by an outsider in the clubby world of finance made his story even more of a classic tale of individual triumph. But this week the plot took a nasty twist. 
 Mr. Jett was publicly stripped of his job as a managing director and head of the Government trading desk at Kidder, Peabody & Company. The firm's executives accused the 36-year-old trader, honored in January as Kidder's employee of the year in 1993, of executing an elaborate scheme to create $350 million in phantom profits, inflate his own bonus and conceal $100 million in losses.
 
 
A Mystery Figure
 Despite his widely publicized fall from grace, Mr. Jett has remained a mystery figure. He has refused to comment and did not answer the doorbell at his loft in Manhattan's trendy TriBeCa district.
However, interviews in recent days with colleagues, classmates and former teachers portray him as a loner who had soared to stardom with little experience and less supervision.
"He's pretty isolated," a lawyer close to the case said.
Few of these people were willing to allow their names to be used and few were willing to step forward in his defense. Even his father said he was waiting to hear from his son before discussing the allegations.
"As soon as he tells us whatever he tells us, I'll have something to say," the elder Mr. Jett said in a telephone interview.
While officials at Kidder and its parent, the General Electric Company, have sought to place all the blame for the reported scheme on Mr. Jett, executives at competing houses harshly criticized management controls at Kidder. Several longtime traders said Kidder bore moral responsibility for granting so much power to someone with so little experience.
Since first disclosing the allegations earlier this week, Kidder officials have refused to answer detailed questions about the hiring and supervision of Mr. Jett. Those questions about Kidder's supervision took on a more compelling nature as former associates suggested that Mr. Jett had performed poorly in junior positions at two previous brokerage houses, Morgan Stanley & Company and CS First Boston Inc.
The portrait that emerges of Mr. Jett in recent years contrasts sharply with the image of the young man who left a small suburb of Cleveland nearly two decades ago.
 In Wickliffe, Ohio, where he grew up, Mr. Jett is still known by his first name, Orlando, and by his success. He is the local youth who made good, the one who got a scholarship to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and went on to the Harvard Business School and Wall Street.
"Orlando is a high achiever," Grace Alexander, a longtime neighbor of the Jett family, said. "Everybody is real proud of him."
The son of a local insurance business owner and a schoolteacher, Mr. Jett graduated near the top of his high school class and was a member of the school's academic team. Teachers and classmates remember him as soft-spoken and low-key, with an engaging manner. His teachers also remember him as someone who got along well with the other students at Wickliffe High School, where he was one of about 20 blacks in a graduating class of more than 400.
"For me, he was an extremely good student, straight A's in my math classes," Alex Bezjak, the chairman of the mathematics department at the high school, said.
At M.I.T., where he earned a bachelor's degree in 1980 and a master's degree in 1982, Mr. Jett left a similar impression. Deliberate and purposeful, he majored in chemical engineering and performed well enough to be accepted in the advanced master's degree program.
"He just seemed like a very well-motivated and directed guy," Jefferson W. Tester, a professor of chemical engineering, said.
It was at Harvard Business School, where he headed after three years at General Electric Plastics, that Mr. Jett's persona seemed to change. Although he dropped Orlando and began going by Joseph, his middle name, that was not the biggest change.
Classmates at Harvard say they encountered an angry young man. According to several, who declined to allow the use of their names, Mr. Jett complained loudly and abrasively that he had been held back at G.E., that his talents had been ignored.
"He seemed pretty impressive in the classroom," said Charles N. Hassen, another G.E. engineer who wound up in the same class at Harvard. "I remember him as quite intelligent and outspoken."
While at Harvard, Mr. Jett immersed himself in body building and martial arts. He struck some of his classmates as theatrical, as well as strident about his conservative politics. He said he had been harassed by police and often lectured fellow black students about the necessity of pulling oneself up by the bootstraps, without help from others.
 
 
Denied Degree
 Harvard said Mr. Jett fulfilled the requirements for an M.B.A. in 1987, but he was denied the degree. James Aysner, a Harvard spokesman, refused to say why Mr. Jett did not get his degree, but he did say the reason did not have anything to do with bad conduct.
Nonetheless, Mr. Jett was hired after graduation as a junior trader in mortgage-backed securities by Morgan Stanley, the blue-chip investment house. Former colleagues, who refused to allow their names to be used, said Mr. Jett did not perform well and that he did not have the sophisticated arbitrage experience he claimed in later job interviews.
A trader who sat near Mr. Jett at Morgan Stanley described him as "a smart guy" who spent a good part of the day reading Kung Fu comic books and Muscle magazine.
In 1989, he was let go along with a number of other employees in a cutback.
Mr. Jett was out of work for several months, but eventually landed a job at CS First Boston, another top-tier firm. A colleague there remembered him as someone who pushed himself hard, but insisted on operating on his own in a manner that sometimes disturbed his fellow employees.
 
 
Reaction to Anger
 By this time, colleagues said, Mr. Jett was spending two hours a night working out at a gym. Sometimes when angered, as when someone said he could not do something he wanted to do, they said, he would become very still, then arch his back and let out a fearsome roar.
According to former First Boston colleagues, who refused to allow their names to be used, other traders discovered that Mr. Jett sometimes concealed vital information from other traders, such as misstating the profitability of a deal. He lasted only 14 months at First Boston, leaving after having risen no higher than junior trader.
Young traders often try several jobs before they find the right fit. For Mr. Jett, the third time appeared to be a charm. Following another period of unemployment, Mr. Jett was hired in July 1991 as a trader on the Government bond desk at Kidder, Peabody.
After recovering from the insider-trading scandal of the 1980's, Kidder was the leader in mortgage-backed securities. In 1991, the firm was trying to diversify its profit stream by hiring aggressive young traders to help build its Government bond group and other operations.
 
 
Unusual Freedom
 Mr. Jett thrived, getting the opportunity for individual initiative he had so long sought. In less than two years -- and without prior experience trading Government bonds -- he rose to chief of the Government trading desk and a managing director, supervising 16 traders and apparently operating with unusual freedom.
Former colleagues at Morgan Stanley and First Boston, along with some of his Harvard classmates, said they were not surprised that Mr. Jett was hired at Kidder. But they said they were astonished that he was promoted so quickly to head of Government trading and managing director, responsibilities for which he seemed too inexperienced.
In the loosely structured environment on Kidder's trading floor, Mr. Jett had the freedom to expose the firm's capital to risks at levels normally reserved for the most seasoned and trusted traders at other firms.
To Kidder's managers, the returns seemed to justify their faith in Mr. Jett. His desk reported profits of hundreds of millions of dollars, earning Mr. Jett his $9 million bonus last year.
But last Sunday, after an internal investigation and a session in which senior managers questioned Mr. Jett, his meteoric rise was over. Kidder executives claimed that the profits never existed. Instead, executives said, the trades were merely computer entries, possibly designed to cover up losses of $90 million to $100 million.
Mr. Jett was immediately dismissed and six other employees, who have not been named, were suspended. On Wednesday, General Electric took a charge of $210 million, or 25 cents a share, to cover inflated profits at Kidder related to the fictitious trades.
The long-term damages are unknown. A Kidder spokeswoman said yesterday that officials would not respond to further questions. Many financial experts say General Electric clearly has the capital and the cash flow to survive the losses, even if they were to grow. They also speculated that the full extent of losses remained uncertain. But Wall Street sources said the episode could erode Kidder's relationship with lenders and institutional customers.
What seems clear, however, is that the actions blamed on a single young trader threaten to undermine Kidder's struggle to reinvigorate the firm and have raised new questions about its overall management.
"As a manager, you have to be willing to look when you go from making no money to making a lot of money," said Lesley Daniels, who heads global risk management at Chemical Bank and ran trading desks at two other banks. "You cannot just sit on your hands and hope that it's real."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Joseph Jett, the heady world of Wall Street finance came to a sudden end this week when he was stripped of his job at Kidder, Peabody. He walked outside his TriBeCa apartment apartment. (Arnie Schlissel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC MORGAN STANLEY (83%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (70%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (62%); FIRST BOSTON INC (61%); HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (88%); MIDWEST USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS INTERVIEWS (89%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; JETT, JOSEPH JOSEPH JETT (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



509 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: New View of Peril From A-Plant Emissions

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PASCO, Wash., April 21

 BODY:
A team of Government-sponsored scientists said today that deliberate releases of radiation four decades ago from the Hanford nuclear weapons plant in southeast Washington exposed thousands more people over a much larger region than previously thought.
Culminating seven years of research that cost the Government $26 million, the scientists recalculated the doses absorbed from the plant's huge radiation releases in the 1940's and 50's. The Government, which did not admit to the emissions until it responded to public pressure in 1986, first estimated those doses in 1990. 
 Based on computer modeling, the panel in essence said today that the risk from the emissions was higher than estimated in 1990 for people living 100 miles or farther from the reservation but lower for people living within 20 miles.
In perhaps the most surprising finding, the panel lowered the estimated contamination from a secret 1949 military test known as the Green Run. The exposure to children from the test, which involved a huge release of radioactive iodine into the air to help the military develop surveillance for Soviet atomic bomb plants, amounted to roughly 0.27 rad, a tiny amount of radiation that most scientists consider an insignificant risk to health.
 
Highest Exposure
 Nevertheless, the panel of 15 scientists and 3 members of the public affirmed and expanded the basic conclusion it made in July 1990. At that time, the panel announced that people in the Pacific Northwest, including thousands of children, were secretly exposed to the highest levels of radiation from the Government's bomb industry of any civilian population in the United States.
The latest conclusions come in an extraordinary period of reckoning for the United States and its atomic weapons industry. Last December, after learning that Government-financed doctors secretly conducted human radiation experiments in support of the industry, Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary apologized to those who were unwittingly exposed and promised to compensate them.
The White House in January took up the investigation of human experimentation, and the conclusions announced today could influence that project. As part of its charter, the White House advisory group that is coordinating the investigation will study the new findings on the Green Run and consider whether those exposed should be compensated.
Because the exposures from the Green Run are now estimated to be so small, several state officials and members of the scientific panel said the case probably did not warrant compensation. But the panel also estimated that other Hanford emissions exposed thousands to radiation levels thousands of times higher than in the Green Run, and State of Washington today asked the Clinton Administration to expand the list of those eligible for compensation to them. .
 
Limiting Compensation
 "They ought to look at all of the releases here and consider some sort of compensation plan," said Allen W. Conklin, the head of air emissions and defense waste for the state Department of Health.
But Dr. Tara O'Toole, the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environment, Safety and Health, said it was unlikely the state would get its request. "The first thing we wanted to accomplish in this project was to have a manageable scope of work," she said. "We cannot expand the charge of the advisory committee."
The Hanford atomic reservation, spread across 560 square miles of sand and sage along the Columbia River just west of here, contained the nuclear reactors and processing plants that produced plutonium for the atomic bomb that devastated Nagasaki, Japan, and for thousands of atomic warheads in the American arsenal. The plant ended its production of nuclear materials in 1988 and is now the site of a multibillion-dollar environmental cleanup that has led to an economic boom here. Housing starts are at their highest levels since the 1970's.
But even as realtors and employers celebrate along the river of money flowing out of Washington, D.C., thousands of residents here remain concerned about health risks from the Hanford radiation releases.
The initial estimates of exposure made in 1990 focused on the 10 counties surrounding Hanford. This scientific panel, led by Dr. John E. Till, a health physicist from Neeces, S.C., examined a 75,000-square-mile region around the plant that included much of Eastern Washington and parts of Idaho and Oregon. More than 800,000 people lived in the region during the first decade of the cold war, when the radiation released from Hanford was enormous.
 
From Cows to Humans
 Virtually all of the radiation hazard from Hanford came from one element, radioactive iodine. The iodine, which settled on grass, was conveyed to humans when they drank milk from cows that had eaten contaminated feed. Since iodine collects in the thyroid, panel members said this was the organ that caused them most concern. Roughly half of the people in the region were exposed to at least 1 rad of radiation from Hanford, the panel said. About 10 percent were exposed to 10 rads or more.
A dose of one rad, which is a measure of radiation absorbed by human tissue, is not considered particularly large if given to the thyroid, but many medical specialists say that any radiation above that occurring in nature raises a person's risk of contracting diseases, especially cancer. In event of a nuclear reactor accident, Federal guidelines call for evacuation if the dose to the thyroid reaches 5-25 rads.
Dr. Richard Morrill, a geographer from the University of Washington who was on the panel, said some children in Eltopia, Wash., immediately east and downwind of Hanford, may have been exposed to 870 rads to their thyroid from 1944 to 1951, and adults there may have absorbed as much as 350 rads. The exposure for children is one-third the level the panel estimated in 1990.
But the panel also found it had underestimated the radiation absorbed by people living 100 miles and more downwind from Hanford. From 1944 to 1951, adults in Spokane, 130 miles northeast of here, may have absorbed 44 rads to their thyroid, 10 times higher than scientists estimated in 1990.
 
Caution on Health Effect
 The panel was very cautious in relating the findings to any particular risk of contracting disease. But when pressed, Dr. Till pointed to a study he had participated in that was published last year in The Journal of the American Medical Association. In that study, he said, researchers identified 3,500 people from southern Utah who as children lived down range of the Federal atomic testing ground in Nevada in the 1950's. Researchers found more cases of thyroid diseases, including cancer, than was expected in a group of unexposed adults, and the people the researchers studied were exposed to radiation levels half as high as those documented around Hanford, he said.
"We found a correlation between the dose and the incidence of disease," he said. "The higher the dose, the higher the numbers of nodules on thyroids and cancer."
In part, the panel's new findings about Hanford's releases reflect some basic horse sense about animal husbandry. The reasons the Green Run experiment produced such small exposures, said Dr. Till, was that the test occurred in the winter when cows were not grazing.


GRAPHIC: Map shows the cumulative thyroid dose of radiation for a child living around the Hanford Nuclear Reservation from 1944 to 1951. Doses are given in rads, measure of radiation absorbed human tissue.
Map: "THE AFFECTED AREA: Where the Radiation Went"
 Under current standard for judging the servirity of a nuclear reactor accident, a potential dose of five to 25 rads to the thyroid is considered dangerous enough to require evacuation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%); GREEN RUN&STATE OF WASHINGTON (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN RUN&STATE OF WASHINGTON (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); OREGON; UNITED STATES (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; HANFORD NUCLEAR RESERVATION (WASH); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; IODINE; RADIATION; NUCLEAR TESTS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



510 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
New Neiman Marcus Head Is Named

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
In a corporate shuffle that highlights the dearth of merchandising talent at the high end of retailing, the Neiman Marcus Group said yesterday that it had selected Burton Tansky, chairman and chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman, to head the Neiman Marcus department store group.
Steven C. Elkin, president and chief operating officer of Bergdorf, which operates two exclusive specialty stores in Manhattan, Bergdorf Goodman and Bergdorf Goodman Men's, will replace Mr. Tansky on May 1. And Dawn Mello, who left Bergdorf in 1989 to join the Italian retail and apparel company Guccio Gucci S.p.A., will return to her former post as Bergdorf president. 
 Mr. Tansky, who is 56, is one of the few merchants steeped in the rarefied world of high-end specialty store retailing, where high fashion and luxury are far more important elements of the sales pitch than the price. Before joining Bergdorf in 1990, Mr. Tansky spent 10 years as president of Saks Fifth Avenue, a competitor of Neiman Marcus, and he is a perennial presence in the front rows of fashion shows around the world.
"Neiman Marcus represents the very, very best of upscale retailing in America," Mr. Tanksy said yesterday in a phone interview from Dallas. "This is an unusual opportunity for me to become part of a team that has built the business and is driving the business, and with a store company that has a very bright future."
 
A Short List
 Executive recruiters said only a handful of merchants had the experience and stature to run a company like Neiman Marcus, and most of them were running its rivals. "Four or five would come to mind, and then you start stretching," said Sylvia Warren, a partner with Thorndike Deland & Associates who specializes in recruiting retail executives. "It's really a very incestuous industry."
Ms. Mello, who resuscitated the faltering Gucci brand by updating its style and fashion content to appeal to younger customers, will be Bergdorf's merchant. She left the company when Mr. Tansky succeeded Ira Neimark, the longtime chairman of Bergdorf, a position many in the industry thought she would win.
Robert J. Tarr Jr., president and chief executive of the Neiman Marcus Group, said yesterday that the quest for a merchant to replace Terry Lundgren, former chief executive of the Neiman Marcus stores, had been easy because there were so few choices. "It seemed pretty obvious that Burt was the right choice as I started considering other options," Mr. Tarr said of Mr. Tansky. "I'm very satisfied that this was the only choice right now."
Neiman Marcus was left without a strong merchant at the helm when Mr. Lundgren left in February to join Federated Department Stores Inc.
 Mr. Tansky said he would do little to change the course set by Mr. Lundgren, who developed relationships with new vendors and took the chain into new, lower-priced niches that helped it weather the recession without damaging its cachet as a high-quality merchandiser.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Burton Tansky, right, the chairman and chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman, was chosen to head its parent company's flagship department store chain. At a fashion show last week in Bryant Park, he sat with Neiman Marcus executives Butch Mullins, Joan Kaner and Janet Gurwitch. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (83%); SIC5136 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC; BERGDORF GOODMAN; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (98%); NEIMAN MARCUS STORES (84%); MACY'S INC (84%); GUCCI GROUP NV (83%); GUCCIO GUCCI SPA (71%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC; BERGDORF GOODMAN; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); FASHION SHOWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; TANSKY, BURTON; ELKIN, STEVEN C; MELLO, DAWN; LUNDGREN, TERRY J BURTON M TANSKY (92%); TERRY J LUNDGREN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



511 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Says a Smoking Ban Is Worth the Cost

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration estimated today that the benefits of banning smoking in all public places in the United States would outweigh the costs by at least $39 billion a year.
The report by the Environmental Protection Agency also estimated that more than one million smokers might quit immediately if such a ban, as proposed in a House bill now before the subcommittee on Health and the Environment, became law. 
 The report, released at a news conference, was written by economists at the E.P.A. and was approved by the White House Council of Economic Advisers and by the Office of Management and Budget.
The report estimated the benefits of such a prohibition at $39 billion to $72 billion annually. The bulk of this estimate, $35 billion to $65 billion, was based on the projection that 11,000 to 20,000 deaths of nonsmokers a year could be averted that otherwise would be caused by lung cancer and heart disease attributed to exposure to secondhand smoke.
 
Computing a Life's Worth
 The report set the value of a human life at $4.8 million, a figure commonly used by economists, said the principal author, Dr. David H. Mudarri. Economists base estimates of the value of a human life on how much extra a worker is paid for hazardous work compared with nonhazardous work in the same industry. In this way, they say, the market actually sets the value of risk to human life, which can then be transferred to other situations, like the risk to workers of pollution or secondhand smoke.
A ban would save another $4 billion to $8 billion, the report said, through reduced building-maintenance costs associated with smoking.
Another advantage would be that 3 percent to 6 percent of smokers would decide to quit when the ban took effect, the report's authors said, while 50,000 to 100,000 teen-agers would not take up the habit.
The report estimated the costs of such a ban at $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion, mostly for enforcing it and for expenses associated with constructing specially ventilated smoking rooms in the 10 to 20 percent of nonresidential buildings whose owners would want smoking areas. Buildings used by 10 or more people a week would be affected.
 
Tobacco Industry Disagrees
 Walker Merryman, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute in Washington, which represents the major tobacco companies, said the report was "useless" because it was based on a false conclusion, made by the E.P.A. earlier this year, that secondhand cigarette smoke caused disease.
Preliminary figures issued by the agency in February showed a much wider range of possible benefits -- "tens of billions to hundreds of billions" of dollars. But those estimates were calculated by a method different from that used in today's report and, officials said.
In today's estimate, the benefits of longer life spans were computed only for nonsmokers. The benefit to smokers was not included because smokers consider smoking itself a benefit, and a ban on smoking to be irritating. The E.P.A. officials were uncertain how to weigh these "benefits" against the health risks taken voluntarily by the smokers, and so, in order to be conservative, they did not offer estimates for the additional benefits for smokers' increased life spans.
 
Smokers Declining
 There are about 50 million smokers in the United States, with about 25 billion packs of cigarettes sold annually, accounting for about $43 billion in sales. Since 1983, the Tobacco Institute says, the number of smokers has dropped 2 to 3 percent a year.
Today's report did not count worker-productivity gains among the benefits of a ban on smoking. The report also asserted that declines in tax revenue and jobs in the tobacco industry would actually be gains for other sectors of the economy.
Dr. Mudarri said that the report used standard economic methods to arrive at its estimates and that in assessing the health consequences of a ban estimates were conservative. Thus, instead of using the American Heart Association and similar estimates of 32,000 to 40,000 deaths annually from heart disease blamed on secondhand smoke, the E.P.A., used a different formula to exclude exposure to secondhand outside the workplace, putting its estimate at 9,000 to 18,000 deaths.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; FORECASTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SMOKING (93%); SMOKING BANS (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WRITERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); LUNG CANCER (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); HEART DISEASE (68%); CANCER (68%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



512 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Government Securities Drop in Yield for 3d Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Yields of government securities fell yesterday for the third straight day, as inflation concerns eased in the bond market amid signs that economic growth this year may not be as strong as some have forecast.
While some economists are expecting growth this year to be as much as 4 percent, up from 2.8 percent last year, other analysts note that evidence so far this year shows inflation is still subdued. Consumer prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent last month and 2.5 percent for the 12 months that ended in March, below last year's increase of 2.7 percent. Producer prices rose two-tenths of 1 percent in the same period, and at a similar pace in 1993. 
 Economists like Greg Jones of MMS International, a Wall Street research and analysis firm, expect the Federal Reserve to stand pat until its May 17 Federal Open Market Committee meeting before approving another rise in short-term interest rates. "The only question to be answered then," he said, "will be whether the next rate hike will be another quarter-point, or a half-point."
Traders and investors dismissed yesterday's results of a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia that showed manufacturers were paying more for raw materials, because the same report also showed that manufacturing slowed and that prices will be falling six months from now.
Analysts found it interesting that the Philadelphia Fed price report, which two months ago led to a market rout, was only able to spur a brief selloff yesterday.
By late in the day the 30-year bond was up 16/32 , to 8812/32 , as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 7.21 percent, from 7.32 percent Wednesday. It was the biggest one-day drop in yields since April 5, when the yield on the 30-year bond fell from 7.41 percent to 7.24 percent.
"Looking at today's activity you have to be thinking that maybe the bear market is over," one trader said, "especially after showing its ability to rally after the Philly report."
Mr. Jones said the price action this week and the market's ability to bounce back after the Fed's tightening on Monday was a good sign for the long end of the market. "The last tightening by the Fed may have restored some of its credibility in the market, and dented the bearish psychology that has gripped it since the first Fed move on Feb. 4," he said.
But there are those in the market who are not convinced of a market turnaround. "As in all bear markets you have some rallies, but the rallies are only for a short period of time." said Peter Hirsch, a managing director and head of the government trading desk at Salomon Brothers.
Mr. Hirsch said that over the next two to three weeks the market will have to deal with a significant supply of new Treasury securities, which could put some downward pressure on prices.
Next week, the Treasury will auction $28 billion of two-year and five-year notes. In when-issued, or pre-auction, trading yesterday the yields were lower, with the two-year note at a yield of 5.61 percent, down from 5.70 percent the day before, and the five-year note at a yield of 6.50 percent, down from 6.62 percent.
Analysts said prices slipped after the first glance at yesterday's Philadelphia Fed survey as the price paid index for current conditions surged to 33.1 in April from 16 in March. But at a second look, they said, the report showed the price paid index falling to 38.8 from 50.4 in March and the price received index dropping to 13.7 from 30.7 in the manufacturers' outlook for six months from now.
The data gave investors just the type of news they were hoping they would find -- indications that the economy could be cooling off. With slower growth, inflationary pressures are reduced.
The unexpected rise in the latest weekly unemployment claims, after expectations of a decline to 341,000 from 348,000 the previous week, added to the market's firm tone.
Some economists said that the easing of inflation worries might support a belief among some analysts that the Fed will not raise short-term interest rates further before the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on May 17, thus removing the uncertainty about the timing of the next rate rise and allowing trading to take a more normal pattern.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Jan.-April '94. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (82%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



513 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Colombian Drug Trafficker Implicates Haitian Police Chief

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
A former member of a Colombian drug cartel testified today at a Senate hearing that Haiti's powerful police commander, Lieut. Col. Joseph Michel Francois, collaborated in shipping tons of cocaine to the United States during the 1980's.
American drug enforcement officials and supporters of Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, have long asserted that members of the military regime that overthrew him in 1991 are involved in the cocaine trade. But the testimony today from Gabriel Taboada, a convicted cocaine smuggler, is believed to be the first sworn public statement by a drug trafficker that a senior member of the current regime has conspired to ship cocaine. 
 Speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Taboada said he had met with senior members of the Haitian military, including Colonel Francois, in the offices of the Medellin cocaine cartel in the Colombian town of the same name in 1984. He said the Haitian officers helped insure that roughly 70,000 pounds of cocaine were delivered from Colombia through Haiti to the United States in 1987.
"The cartel used Haiti as a bridge so as to later move the drugs toward the United States," Mr. Taboada said. "They took planes out of Colombia and landed in Haiti, protected by the Haitian military. Michel Francois protected the drugs in Haiti and then allowed the drugs to continue to the United States."
Mr. Taboada appeared before a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee that held two days of hearings on the corruption of governments by criminal syndicates.
After the fall of the Duvalier family dictatorship in 1986, Haiti was ruled for five years by a series of military strongmen. Among them was Lieut. Gen. Prosper Avril, who governed from 1988 to 1990 and whom Mr. Taboada also identified today as a participant in the Colombian cocaine trade.
Father Aristide took office in February 1991 after winning the country's first democratic election. He was overthrown seven months later by a group of military officers including Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and Colonel Francois, who are said by human rights groups to rule through terror and intimidation.
Mr. Taboada did not testify on what role the Haitian military is playing in the drug trade today, since he has been in Federal prison since 1989 serving a 12-year sentence for cocaine trafficking. He has testified for the Government in several cases, including the prosecution culminating in the 1992 conviction of the former Panamanian leader, Gen. Manuel Noriega, on drug trafficking charges.
Mr. Taboada also said he had bribed officials of the United States Embassy and other foreign diplomats in Colombia during the 1980's to use their diplomatic status to help him import luxury automobiles for members of the cartel. Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, said he had raised the issue with the F.B.I. but had been told that there were "jurisdictional problems" in investigating the charge. A call to a State Department spokeswoman was not returned today.
The hearing was convened by Senator Kerry, who heads the Foreign Relations subcommitee on terrorism, narcotics and international operations. On Wednesday, the panel heard testimony from the Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey, that international criminal gangs had undermined the political and economic stabilility of Russia, bought the allegiances of Latin American leaders and saturated the United States with cocaine and heroin.
Combining public information with corroborative intelligence gathered recently by the C.I.A., the State Department and other Government agencies, Mr. Woolsey and Senator Kerry described organizations grown rich from the sale of drugs and weapons infiltrating governments, influencing legislation and investing in United States banks and legitimate businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA (67%); 

COMPANY: MEDELLIN CARTEL

ORGANIZATION: MEDELLIN CARTEL

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; HAITI; COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); PANAMA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BRIBERY; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; COCAINE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (95%); COCAINE (93%); CARTELS (92%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (92%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (62%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); PRISONS (60%); 

PERSON: TABOADA, GABRIEL; FRANCOIS, JOSEPH MICHEL (COL); WEINER, TIM JOHN KERRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



514 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKET;
Oil Prices Surge on Hopes For Increased U.S. Demand

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Oil prices posted solid gains yesterday amid expectations that the expanding American economy would increase its demand for gasoline and other petroleum products in the next few months, which would restrain growth in crude oil inventories.
Crude oil prices have risen 17 percent since March 28, when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would leave its output unchanged at 24.52 million barrels a day for the rest of the year. Traders had thought OPEC production would send stockpiles soaring as demand fell off in the spring. Instead, crude stocks have risen by less than 1 percent since the meeting. 
 Reports that rioting in Nigeria forced the Royal Dutch/Shell Group to halt some production of the country's Forcados blend of crude oil also helped prices to rise, traders said.
"You had some news about Shell shutting in some Forcados production," said William Brown, president of W. H. Brown & Company, a consulting firm in New York. "It's basically the market reassessing its own view" of oil demand in the second quarter.
At the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for June delivery, now the actively traded futures contract, gained 31 cents, to $16.63 a barrel. May unleaded gasoline rose 0.38 cent, to 49.16 cents a gallon, and May heating oil rose 0.47 cent, to 46.87 cents a gallon.
 With the minor gains in crude stocks, "there's a lot of room for OPEC to continue at its present ceiling," Mr. Brown said.
On other commodity markets, sugar prices rebounded from a recent selloff. Sugar for May delivery jumped 0.44 cent, to 11.21 cents a pound at the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange.
Sugar prices have fallen nearly 13 percent in the last month after reaching an eight-month high of 12.34 cents a pound. The surge in prices served to dry up demand from importing countries like Egypt, Bulgaria and Pakistan, all of which are thought to be ready to buy sugar now, traders said.
Meanwhile, copper prices rose as stocks and bonds rallied. May copper gained 1.85 cent, to 88.70 cents a pound at the Commodity Exchange in New York, after falling as low as 86.05 cents a pound earlier in the day.
A rising stock market brightens the outlook for copper demand, which increases when construction and automobile manufacturing pick up.
Higher-than-expected housing starts in March also encouraged the copper market. Copper is used extensively in new construction for plumbing and electrical wiring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); BULGARIA (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); H BROWN LTD (69%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); BULGARIA (50%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); HEATING OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BASE METALS MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COFFEE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); BONDS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM BROWN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



515 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Debate Rifkin's Sanity In Trial's Opening Arguments

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., April 21

 BODY:
The opposing parties in the murder trial of Joel Rifkin moved quickly today to lay out the challenge facing the jury: to decide whether Mr. Rifkin, who has admitted killing 17 women and methodically disposing of their bodies, was legally insane.
"The defendant is a very bright guy, with very high intelligence," the prosecutor, Fred Klein, said in his opening statement. "He was well aware of the consequences of his actions. 
 "Sure, maybe Joel Rifkin had an unhappy childhood, kids ridiculed him, and he didn't get along with women," Mr. Klein added. "But he knows what he did was wrong. He got caught red-handed, and now he's using and abusing the concept of mental illness."
Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, John Lawrence, argued just as aggressively that Mr. Rifkin was a troubled man who was unable to control his actions.
"The defense will show that Mr. Rifkin was not responsible for these unbelievable, random acts of violence because of a major serious mental disease," Mr. Lawrence said.
The jury will hear from psychiatrists and psychologists called by both the prosecution and the defense in what is expected to a battle of experts.
 
Held in Traffic Case
 Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed landscaper from East Meadow, L.I., was arrested on June 28 by the state police for a traffic violation. The police said they found the body of Tiffany Bresciani, 22, in the back of Mr. Rifkin's pickup truck.
During questioning by troopers, Mr. Rifkin confessed to killing Ms. Bresciani and 16 other women he says were prostitutes.
The trial in Nassau County Court before Judge Ira H. Wexner involves only the killing of Ms. Bresciani. Mr. Rikfin also faces prosecution in the other killings in Suffolk County, Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.
Mr. Klein argued in his opening statement that Mr. Rifkin acted out of perverted sexual desire.
"The defendant acted with unparalleled evil and depravity," he said.
As Mr. Klein spoke, Mr. Rifkin sat slumped in his chair at the defense table, staring off into a corner, his face turned away from the jury.
Mr. Lawrence acknowledged that Mr. Rifkin had strangled Ms. Bresciani after he picked her up on a street in Manhattan. "I will not make light of what happened," he said. "The taking of Miss Bresciani's life was a senseless, horrifying act, as it was for his other victims."
But he said Mr. Rifkin was a paranoid schizophrenic and had suffered from the disease since early childhood. He said the illness had became uncontrollable after 1987, when Mr. Rifkin's father died.
"This caused him to act out in macabre ways," Mr. Lawrence said. "He has lived in a twilight zone unable to relate to reality, overcome by a compulsion of violent images toward women, a compulsion that took control of his life."
The first witness to be called by the prosecution was Cheryl Bresciani, the 46-year-old mother of Tiffany Bresciani, who she said was her only child.
 
'He Really Needs Help'
 She said her daughter had left their home in Metairie, a suburb of New Orleans, five years ago and lived three years in Los Angeles before going to New York City. She said she last saw her in October 1992, but had talked with her frequently on the telephone. The last time, she said, was two days before she was killed.
After leaving the courtroom, Ms. Bresciani said she had "only looked for a second" at the man who had killed her daughter.
"I think he really needs help," she said. "He did a horrible thing. Something's got to be wrong. He's certainly not led by God."
During the afternoon session, the prosecution called State Trooper Sean Ruane to the stand. He was one of the troopers who arrested Mr. Rifkin early June 28 after a 20-mile chase that lasted about 25 minutes and ended as Mr. Rifkin's truck slammed into a utility pole here on Old Country Road, about a block from the courthouse.
Trooper Ruane said the chase began when he and another officer tried to pull Mr. Rifkin to the side of the road because the license plate was missing from the back of his pickup. While inspecting the damaged truck, he was about to look into the glove compartment when, he said, he noticed a very strong odor.
"It smelled like decomposing flesh," he said. "I then went to the back of the truck and saw what looked like a human body wrapped in a blue tarp."
After Ms. Bresciani's body was found inside the tarp, Mr. Rifkin confessed that he had strangled her and had been trying to dispose of her body.
During Trooper Ruane's testimony, Mr. Rifkin slumped down in his chair, tilted his head back and fell sound asleep. He awoke when his lawyer rose from the defense table to cross-examine the trooper.
Mr. Lawrence later explained that Mr. Rifkin had not "gotten much sleep the last two nights." He also said that prison officials had given Mr. Rifkin a bologna sandwich during today's lunch break and that since Mr. Rifkin was allergic to the nitrates in bologna, it made him drowsy.
Although television and still cameras were permitted to view the courtroom action today, Judge Wexner assured the jurors that they would not be photographed or identified by name during the trial.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Rifkin listening to opening statements yesterday in the first day of his murder trial at Nassau County Court in Mineola, L.I. He has admitted killing 17 women. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRIALS; SERIAL MURDERS; PROSTITUTION JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); WOMEN (77%); PSYCHIATRY (74%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (74%); PARANOIA (74%); JUDGES (73%); ARRESTS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); POLICE FORCES (65%); PROSTITUTION (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T; RIFKIN, JOEL JOHN C LAWRENCE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



516 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: City Wants Appraisal Made of Coliseum Site

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
New York City officials have given the Metropolitan Transportation Authority a deadline of Monday to decide whether to join it in having an appraisal made of the Coliseum site, whose fate is part of a complicated struggle involving the city, the M.T.A. and the developer, Mortimer B. Zuckerman.
In a letter, John S. Dyson, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, informed the M.T.A., which owns the site, that if the agency does not go along with the appraisal, the city will proceed alone. 
 "Since we have repeatedly made this request," Mr. Dyson said, "we will initiate our own appraisal by an independent firm if we have not reached agreement by Monday morning."
John Cunningham, a spokesman for the M.T.A., said that the agency was still evaluating the request. The agency has resisted the appraisal, saying it was difficult to assess such a site in a rising real estate market.
Mr. Zuckerman, who owns The Daily News, has a contract to build a 2.1-million-square-foot mixed-use development on the Coliseum property. For more than a year Mr. Zuckerman has been trying renegotiate the agreement, seeking to build a smaller project at a price lower than the $338 million called for in the contract.
If Mr. Zuckerman does not close on the deal, he stands to forfeit a $33.8 million line of credit.
 
New Purchase Price
 The M.T.A. and Mr. Zuckerman have agreed to a new purchase price of $100 million for half the site; included in the price is a $20 million city subsidy from annual tax payments generated by the project. Still, the M.T.A. says there are other matters that have to be settled, including the amount of any new down payment and a required starting date for construction.
Last week Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called on the transit agency to help with an independent review of the site's value. He said that the appraisal would settle the question of whether Mr. Zuckerman is getting favorable treatment.
Mr. Dyson could not say what the appraisal would cost or who would pay for it.
"If we do it together," Mr. Dyson said, "we will both pay for it. If we do it alone, we will probably pay although they should pay for it. It's their site."
In his letter to the M.T.A., Mr. Dyson expanded on a plan that calls for a time period allowing other bidders to outbid Mr. Zuckerman's price for the property. Mr. Dyson proposes that if a bidder tops Mr. Zuckerman's price and becomes the developer, Mr. Zuckerman would have to pay a substantial cash penalty, based on the anount of the down payment, for being released from the deal.
Responding to City Hall's plan, Robert Selsam, a senior vice president of Boston Properties, Mr. Zuckerman's company, said he was not entirely happy with the plan but would go along with it.
"We are unhappy that we could lose the opportunity to develop the Coliseum site after years of work," Mr. Selsam said, "and pay a substantial penalty if someone comes along and bids even $1 more. But we will go along with with the city's request."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (90%); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SUITS AND LITIGATION; NEW YORK COLISEUM URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (68%); LITIGATION (63%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



517 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Dell Computer Stock Slides Amid Rumors of Big Losses

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The Dell Computer Corporation said yesterday that it might face losses from financial derivatives but that its exposure was nowhere near the $350 million that had been rumored on Wall Street.
The rumors sent the stock of the personal computer down by as much as $3.625 in Nasdaq trading. It closed down $2.875 a share, at $22, and was the most active Nasdaq issue, with more than 9.6 million shares traded. 
 A Dell vice president, Michelle Moore, said investor questions about a pending charge of about $350 million were "orders of magnitude out of the scope of reality."
Speculation was fueled by a report on CNBC, the business news television channel, which cited a source saying the swaps would have a major impact on Dell's earnings unless interest rates fell to February levels.
Dell, based in Austin, Tex., disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it held interest rate swaps -- a type of financial derivative to protect against interest rate fluctuations -- on a total of $350 million of debt.
It said that if interest rates did not return to the levels of mid-February, it would have to take a charge from its losses on the investments in early 1995. But Dell emphasized that the underlying value of the debt -- the notional amount of $350 million -- was far less than the actual risk that it faced on the contracts.
Dell said it swapped interest payments based upon fixed and floating interest rates, but said the underlying debt was not exchanged. "Consequently, the company's exposure to credit loss is significantly less than the stated notional amounts," Dell said in the filing.
In an interest rate swap, one company agrees to pay a variable-rate debt for another party in the belief interest rates would remain stable or drop further. In exchange, the other party agrees to pay a fixed-rate debt on the premise that rates would rise.
Many companies have been hit with charges from financial derivatives that have lost money. Among the losers have been Procter & Gamble, Cargill, Gibson Greetings Inc. and Mead.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Drop for Dell" shows the daily closes of Dell shares from Jan.-April. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (95%); AM (NYSE) (63%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DELL COMPUTER CORP DELL INC (95%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



518 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Picking utility winners in the future may be more difficult.

BYLINE: By Agis Salpukas 

 BODY:
A PLAN approved by the California Public Utilities Commission on Wednesday to open the state's utility companies to much greater competition will have an impact on utilities nationwide.
The decision is the first concrete move on a concept of open competition -- known as retail wheeling -- that has been worrying both utility executives and analysts acutely since last fall. But until Wednesday it was mostly an academic debate. 
 California regulators have often been the pace-setters and if they go ahead with what they propose -- allowing larger customers to contract for and buy power directly from other, lower cost sources -- they will end the grip that their local utilities have had on customers and put a lot of pressure on other states to follow.
Such open competition could drive down electricity rates and give California, which is still emerging from a severe recession, an advantage in keeping its own industries and attracting new ones -- an edge that other states could not long tolerate.
But if the California notion spreads, some analysts predict an upheaval in the industry, with the customers of many weaker utility companies raided by better-run companies that could offer lower rates. The competition could force some utilities into bankruptcy and leave some smaller customers facing higher rates.
The possibility of retail wheeling has already made many utility analysts and rating agencies revamp the way they look at utilities and find new ways to value them, especially on how well they could cope under the increased competition.
For investors, the change -- particularly if the concept spreads -- means it will become more difficult to analyze utility companies. Rates and rate increases will not be so secure. Customers will not be guaranteed and the quality of management will be far more important than it has been in the past. Analyzing utilities will now be similar to evaluating nonregulated companies.
"It has become much more complicated for the investor," said Alan Spen, a utility analyst with Fitch Investors Service Inc.
Mr. Spen said past yardsticks, including the measures of financial strength and the level of rates, were no longer as important.
"The world is changing," he said, adding that the most important criteria in looking at a utility now is how its management will react to the new world.
"Some will adapt very well, look for new businesses and become very aggressive," he said. "Other managers will do something very traditional and try to run their business as before."
At first look, he said, one would think that the three major investor-owned California utilities, Pacific Gas and Electric, Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas and Electric, would be considered high risks since they would face the brunt of the new competition.
But all three companies, he said, have been rated by Fitch as above average in their ability to deal with the new competitive era, in part because their management has been preparing and working with the regulators to adapt.
Most analysts agreed yesterday that the approval of the plan by the California commission has made retail wheeling a much more urgent issue.
"They are the trend-setter," Mr. Spen said. "The wind is blowing from west to east."
He said the initial reaction of investors had been negative. The news was interpreted as another blow to an industry that has already seen its stocks plunge as interest rates soared over the last three months.
Should investors then begin to bail out of utility stocks? Mr. Spen said such a conclusion was unwarranted, particularly because the new era has yet to begin.
Nevertheless, he added, investors should not be complacent because picking the winners in the future will be much more difficult.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); PG&E CORP (58%); SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC CO (57%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (84%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (84%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (84%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (84%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RATES PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS ALAN SPEN (79%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



519 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Advances on the Yen As Economic Meeting Nears

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen yesterday amid speculation that world economic leaders may try to curb the yen's rise after a meeting on Sunday.
A rebound in American stock and bond prices also helped the dollar gain against the German mark and most other currencies. 
 Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations are to meet in Washington on Sunday. Clinton Administration officials suggested yesterday the United States might may drop its tacit strong-yen policy.
 
 
'People Got Spooked'
 "People got spooked because they thought the G-7 might come up with a plan to defend the dollar," said Ezra Zask, president of Ezra Zask Associates, a Norfolk, Conn., hedge fund with $180 million under management. Mr. Zask said he bought dollars earlier in the week, anticipating the buying spree.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 103.70 yen, up from 103.05 yen on Wednesday. The dollar also rose to 1.6911 marks from 1.6875 marks.
The dollar gained after Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said the United States would not try to drive the dollar lower against the yen.
Mr. Bentsen and other members of the Clinton Administration sent the dollar into a tailspin last year when they said a strong yen would help reduce Japan's trade surplus with the United States. Such comments convinced many traders that Washington had a strong-yen policy.
"We're not going to try to devalue ourselves into their markets," Mr. Bentsen said. A strong yen makes Japanese exports more expensive and American products less costly in Japan.
 
 
'Vicious Selloff
 Mr. Zask said he would not hold his dollar position over the weekend because the results of the meeting are too unpredictable. "We could see a vicious selloff of the dollar if the G-7 leaders don't say anything about exchange rates," he said.
Many other traders don't expect the U.S. and Japan to make progress on trade or exchange rates until Japan replaces Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, who resigned April 8.
"The Japanese don't have a Government yet, so I don't expect much from the G-7 meeting," Earl Johnson, foreign exchange adviser at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, said.
Meanwhile, the British pound was little changed at $1.4911. The dollar fell to 5.7951 French francs from 5.8011 francs. It was steady at 1.4351 Swiss francs and 1,616 Italian lire. The Canadian dollar rose to 72.57 United States cents from 72.46 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (80%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BRITISH POUND (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



520 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: State Jobless Claims Rise

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
New applications for state unemployment benefits were a stronger-than-expected 364,000 last week, the Labor Department reported today, suggesting continued weakness in the jobs market.
The department revised upward its total from the previous week, to 350,000 from 348,000. 
 Wall Street economists had forecast a total of 341,000 new claims for state jobless benefits in the week that ended last Saturday. They said that the increase suggested layoffs had not tapered off considerably and that employment figures for all of April might not be strong.
"It tells us the pace of layoffs has not slowed much," said Carl Palash, senior economist at MCM Moneywatch. "There is no major slowdown in firing and no major pickup in hiring, which reduces the risk of a strong April payrolls figure."
But some economists said the long-term trend for jobless claims remained downward and that the uptick in the last two weeks could be caused by the teamsters' strike, which has hit the trucking industry.
"I'm not sure how many implications the figure has because it is not clear whether the teamsters' strike is having an influence on the numbers," said Robert McGee, chief economist at Tokai Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) TOKAI BANK CANADA (55%); TOKAI BANK SCHWEIZ AG (55%); TOKAI BANK EUROPE LTD (55%); TOKAI BANK EUROPE PLC (55%); TOKAI BANK LTD (55%); MCM MONEYWATCH (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MCM MONEYWATCH (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; STATES (US) JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); TRUCKING (66%); 

PERSON: ROBERT MCGEE (62%); CARL PALASH (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



521 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 3; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Museum Seeks Tenant
There's not exactly a "For Rent" sign outside the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum's SoHo branch, but it is looking for a tenant to increase its income. Ideally, Guggenheim officials say, the museum would like to sublet nearly 10,000 square feet of street-level space on Broadway that now houses the bookstore and part of the entrance. The tenant might also use part of the basement next to the museum's new tea boutique, called the T Room. The museum would move its bookstore to the Mercer Street side of the ground floor and retain all the existing exhibition space on both the ground floor and the level above.
"It would be an enormous gain for the museum without compromising exhibition space," said Catherine Vare, a museum spokeswoman, who added that the institution wasn't ruling out future expansion. 
 One company that has expressed interest in the space is the Gap. (That would put the clothing store across the street from A/X, Giorgio Armani's Italian version of the Gap.) But Ms. Vare said other companies had expressed interest, too. A spokesman for the Gap said it did not comment on new stores until a lease was signed.
"We're not having a store as part of the museum," Ms. Vare said. "The two would be separate entities with separate entrances." Since the museum opened two years ago, annual attendance has run between 175,000 and 220,000 visitors. Tomorrow, it will open "RolyWholyOver a Circus," a Conceptual exhibition designed by John Cage with randomly selected art and interactive elements. It opened at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, where it was the most successful show in the museum's history.
 
Italians Modernize
 Italian cultural institutions have begun to realize that they have some catching up to do. Unlike such institutions as the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which annually sells more than $85 million worth of merchandise and publications, Italian museums, libraries, archeological sites and historic houses have not tapped their marketing potential. The average museum store in Italy is little more than a place to buy postcards and guides.
Until now. A ruling by Alberto Ronchey, the Minister of Culture, allows these institutions to lease space to shops and cafes. In addition to rent, they are to receive 6 percent of the sales.
Daniel Berger, the manager of the mezzanine gallery and corporate sales at the Metropolitan, masterminded the plan for the Italians. For more than a year he traveled back and forth to Italy helping establish the program, which provides for Government-run quality control. "The Italian museums will become much more amenable places," Mr. Berger said.
Taking another cue from the United States, the Culture Ministry also decreed that Italian museums, which now close for the day at 1:45 P.M., should stay open until 7 P.M. unless they can prove they don't have the personnel to do so. "It will be nonstop museumgoing," Mr. Berger said. "And nonstop shopping."
 
2 Big Jumps
 Two more galleries are going bicoastal. Larry Gagosian, who owns two Manhattan galleries, is a native of Los Angeles and began his career there in the mid-1970's. He says he has just signed a lease on a 5,000-square-foot space on Camden Drive in Beverly Hills. Richard Meier, the architect who is designing the J. Paul Getty Center in Brentwood, will renovate the space. Mr. Gagosian said he hadn't hired a staff yet but planned to open in the fall. "I will be showing the artists we represent now," Mr. Gagosian said.
Given the recent earthquakes, not to mention the sluggish economic climate, why Los Angeles and why now? "A lot of galleries have closed, there's been a lot of pessimism, but these things run in cycles," the dealer said. "Los Angeles is a city of enormous wealth. Museums like Los Angeles County are expanding. The new Getty is coming soon. It just seems like the right time."
Mr. Gagosian also said that while this section of Beverly Hills had been overlooked by art galleries, he believed it was an exciting place to be. Mr. Meier is designing a Museum of Television and Broadcast History a block away and Planet Hollywood and Barneys are opening across the street from each other, also on Camden Drive.
The Ace Gallery of Los Angeles, meanwhile, opened a downtown Manhattan branch this week at 275 Hudson Street, just south of Spring Street. The space is large -- 25,000 square feet -- and unlike most galleries will be open only in the afternoon, Tuesdays through Saturdays from 1 to 6 P.M.
"I wanted to engage New York artists," said Douglas Christmas, the owner. On view are sculptures by Michael Heizer, who is also known for his earth works. The show runs through June.
 
Boteros for Chicago
 The voluptuous bronzes by the Colombian-born artist Fernando Botero do not travel light, but they get around. So far they've been on view in Florence and Monte Carlo, along the Champs-Elysees in Paris and on Park Avenue in Manhattan.
Now it's Chicago's turn. From April 29 through Aug. 14, seventeen Botero sculptures will stand along Michigan Avenue in Grant Park, across from the Chicago Cultural Center. "The Mayor is a Botero fan," Michael Lash, the curator of public arts for the Chicago Department of Cultural Affairs, said of Richard M. Daley. "On Park Avenue you had to dodge cars to see them; along the Champs-Elysees you had to walk to see them. In Chicago they'll be in a three-block area and will have quite a different feeling."
Mr. Lash, who organized the show with the Marlborough Gallery, the artist's representative, said the project would cost $300,000, which has been raised from private sources. That will pay not only for the outdoor sculpture exhibition but also a show of 100 Botero drawings from the artist's private collection at the Chicago Cultural Center and an educational program in English and Spanish about the artist and his works.
Some of the sculptures are for sale and others belong to Mr. Botero's own collection, said Jack Mognaz, the vice president of the Marlborough Gallery in New York.
"We're working on more sites in America but nothing is definite," Mr. Mognaz said. "A show of other Botero sculptures, however, is opening in Madrid next month."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Reclining Woman," 1 of 17 Fernando Botero sculptures that are on their way to Chicago. (Marlborough Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM SOHO (NYC) THE GAP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM SOHO (NYC) THE GAP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); HISTORY (79%); ARCHAEOLOGY (79%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (79%); BOOKSTORES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); HISTORIC SITES (62%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; GAGOSIAN, LARRY; BOTERO, FERNANDO LARRY GAGOSIAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



522 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Review/Architecture;
Urban Dreams, Urban Realities

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
Bernard Tschumi is a Morris Lapidus who thinks that he's a Walter Gropius. Like Lapidus, the legendary designer of Miami Beach hotels, Mr. Tschumi has an uncommon flair for glamorous architectural images. But he has managed to hobble this talent by styling himself as a cultural revolutionary. Like Gropius, founder of the Bauhaus, Mr. Tschumi seems to think that his designs can alter the reality as well as the look of urban life. Unfortunately, to judge from "Bernard Tschumi: Architecture and Event," a show of six projects now on view at the Museum of Modern Art, Mr. Tschumi has come to feel that the look of things has taken reality's place.
Unlike many architecture shows, where the main event -- the building -- is missing, this one, organized by Terence Riley and Anne Dixon, puts Mr. Tschumi's best face forward. The Swiss-born architect, dean of the architecture school at Columbia University since 1988, has built only one major project to date, the 165-acre Parc de la Villette in Paris, shown at the museum in a model, drawings and photographs. Otherwise, his work (surveyed in a hefty 634-page book, published by MIT Press to coincide with the exhibition) has been largely confined to paper. 
And on paper, it looks great. Clearly, Mr. Tschumi has a genuine love for the urban spectacle and an array of arresting graphic techniques to convey it. His drawings, models and montages exhibit infectious delight in the city's crowds, moods and visual complexity, its constant sense of possibility and surprise. He wants to create buildings that intensify these sensations.
Yet he grasps that these moments are fleeting. It's hard to pin them down. And architecture, alas, is an art of pinning things down. That dilemma may explain Mr. Tschumi's fascination with movies, documented in the show by "The Manhattan Transcripts," a series of film strip-like drawings first published in 1981. Movies do sometimes give the moody metropolitan atmosphere a fixed, enduring form. Why can't buildings?
Mr. Tschumi's design for the show captures an alluring cinematic ambiance. With dark gray walls and pin-spot lighting, it evokes what Pauline Kael calls the magic moment "when the lights go down," before the show begins. No starlet's lips ever looked more luscious than the Max Factorish red that inflames a row of spot-lighted drawings that you see on entering the gallery. Scale models, suspended from metal cables at quirky, Orson Wellesian angles, look more than ready for their close-up.
But they're not. For when you look beyond the glamorous presentation, it becomes evident that these designs don't live up to their radical billing. There's nothing revolutionary about the urban concept Mr. Tschumi offers in works like "Bridge City," a quartet of enclosed spans designed in 1988 for the Swiss city of Lausanne. It is what developers call "packing with program." What that means, basically, is creating a mall: a mix of uses sufficiently diverse to attract a broad public. No longer just places for retail shopping and multiplex movie theaters, malls now include health clubs, even health clinics, schools, post offices, police stations and other traditional downtown services. Mall designers are already skilled at deploying atriums, escalators, glass walls, video monitors and other devices to create the fluid, theatrical spectacle Mr. Tschumi has made it his mission to invent.
Increasingly, morever, the mall formula has been adopted by downtown buildings and structures that were once restricted to a single use. The kind of program-filled airport Mr. Tschumi proposed for Osaka, Japan, is already a reality in Pittsburgh and Denver. Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan, initially designed as a multi-use complex, is becoming so packed with program it may soon be hard to find the trains. What's radical about a development that the market already supports? Surely the truly radical gesture would be to resist these market pressures, as Sir Norman Foster did, for example, when he sought to prevent commercial intrusions from overtaking his design for Stansted Airport in England.
Mr. Tschumi's conventional notions of programming would be less disappointing if he had invented some startling fresh forms to express them. Beautiful as they often are, however, his formal ideas do not crackle with originality, either. Some of them, like the lunging beams of Bridge City, recall ideas that have been more substantially developed by Mr. Tschumi's contemporaries, like Rem Koolhaas, Daniel Libeskind and Wolfgang Prix. Others, like the hovercraft-shaped "Edge City," an office and recreational complex for Chartres, France, hark back to the kinetic structures proposed by Peter Cook and others in the 1960's.
Often, Mr. Tschumi's ideas appear to have floated in from the art world. An elegant computer-generated "night simulation plan" for a multi-media art school in Tourcoing, France, will appear less riveting to those familiar with Ross Bleckner's black paintings and the Izhar Patkin light boxes that preceded them.
But the most provocative precedent for Mr. Tschumi's designs lies well outside the avant-garde. It is one of the most popular styles in 20th-century American architecture. Remove the rhetorical veneer from these designs, and what is left bears an uncanny resemblance to "Googie," the classic style of 1950's California roadside coffee shops like Googie's, Biff's, Ships, Pann's and Bob's Big Boy. Occasionally designed by well-known architects like John Lautner, buildings in the Googie style represented the postwar Americanization of European modernism. In place of severe boxes, Googie architects created flamboyant public places where Americans could act out the mass spectacle of Eisenhower-era prosperity.
Mr. Tschumi reverses the process: he gives us a high-brow, Europeanized Googie. Undulating canopies, tilted glass walls, winglike roofs of thrusting, cantilevered metal trusses, cloud and amoeba-shaped cut-outs, ceiling grids of twinkling lights, neon-clad exteriors that blaze into life at night: these and other classic 50's forms turn up repeatedly in Mr. Tschumi's vocabulary. The undulating wave of his Osaka airport design is even colored turquoise, that cool 50's tone. Intentionally or not, the overscaled staircase on the outside of the art school Mr. Tschumi has designed for Tourcoing resembles the famous "stairway to nowhere" with which Morris Lapidus aggrandized the lobby of the Fountainbleau and other hotels. And how better to describe the illuminated scale model for Bridge City than with a refrain of the advertising slogan for that populuxe icon, the Princess telephone? It's little, it's lovely, it lights.
Mr. Tschumi, however, views these projects in darker terms. Drawing on themes from the philosophers Georges Bataille and Paul Virilio, the show's brochure describes the designs as if they were guerrilla weapons; they attack, explode, undermine, subvert and disrupt traditional practice. Of course, one could interpret Googie coffee shops in similar terms, and there's even justification for it: these roadside places were part of the wrenching urban disruption brought about by the car. And they were integral to the highway urbanism that emerged from that disruption. Unfortunately, Mr. Tschumi uses terrorist language not to enlighten, but to confuse. Like a sheep in wolves' clothing, he seeks to conceal how tame his ideas actually are. It's earth-shattering, it's dangerous, it explodes: this is the advertising lingo of today's avant-garde.
It may well be that our ludic, hedonistic times require a Morris Lapidus to occupy the place of Walter Gropius. If I were Donald Trump, I might well ask Mr. Tschumi to make me a casino. But why should the Museum of Modern Art capitulate to a beach-resort conception of urbanism? What the museum ought to be promoting, surely, is a comprehensive approach to the urban condition that does not pressure architects like Mr. Tschumi to promise more than they can deliver.
If the museum wants to champion progressive urban visions, it should first devise a progressive context in which to present them. Instead of propping up the exhausted concept of the solitary urban visionary, the museum ought to lay out a graphic map of the different forces that generate urban diversity. Ecological and economic systems; historical patterns of growth; technological innovations that have transformed urban space: these could all be graphically represented in a manner suitable for museum display. And they would expand the viewer's awareness of the city as an inclusive, collective endeavor.
Mr. Tschumi's ideas deserve a place on such a map. Cities do need vibrant architectural images, and Mr. Tschumi's gift for them is estimable. The problem is that for too long we've indulged the premise that cities can be supported by images alone. They can't, any more than art direction, by itself, can sustain a feature film. If the museum wants to do something authentically subversive -- and constructive at the same time -- it ought to challenge that premise. Instead of striking radical poses while things continue to fall apart, it could assume responsibility for putting a few of the pieces together.
"Bernard Tschumi: Architecture and Event" remains at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53d Street, Manhattan, through July 5.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Tschumi's design of an underside of a roof, for an art school in Tourcoing, France. (Museum of Modern Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FILM (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); PUBLISHING (71%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; TSCHUMI, BERNARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



523 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Clubs' Economic Data Are Turned Over to Union

 BODY:
Labor representatives of major league baseball's club owners took a significant step yesterday in the plodding negotiations with the Players Association for a new collective bargaining agreement.
Lawyers turned over to the union the first set of the clubs' economic information that was promised when the two sides began their negotiations more than six weeks ago. 
 "We have received some of the information we sought, not all of it," Lauren Rich, a union lawyer, said after meeting with lawyers for the player relations committee. "We expect this will be a continuing process."
At the negotiating session March 7 in Tampa, Fla., Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, told union officials and a group of more than 70 players that the clubs would give the union the financial data they used in their successful effort to formulate a new plan for sharing of local revenue among the clubs.
"We want to replicate what the owners went through to get to their revenue sharing plan," Donald Fehr, the union chief, said at the time. "We'll see if we share the same conclusions of their economic analysis."
Only two bargaining sessions have been held in what promises to be a long, arduous task to arrive at a new agreement. Chances are good that a work stoppage will occur before an agreement is reached.
The players have discussed the possibility of a strike sometime between the All-Star Game and Labor Day as a way of pre-empting what they expect will be the owners' strategy of implementing a salary cap for next season after declaring an impasse in negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR BASEBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



524 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Clinton On South Africa

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"It's amazing," President Clinton said. "Think of it contrast what we see in Gorazde with what we see about to happen in South Africa.
"I believe that if the [South African] election comes off well, it will send a message around the world that there is another way to deal with these problems. If it can be done in South Africa, how can you justify the old-fashioned killing and fighting and dying over a piece of land . . . in other places?" 
 The President was speaking with four journalists Wednesday evening about South Africa. He had agreed to an interview by Richard Steyn, editor of The Johannesburg Star, and Aggrey Klaaste, editor of The Sowetan. Clarence Page of The Chicago Tribune and I were asked to join them.
In Bosnia and other places with "ancient racial, ethnic and religious divisions," Mr. Clinton said, people "don't understand yet, for whatever reason, that in the end they'll be better off if they work together, and that controlling territory has nowhere near the significance . . . that it had 100 years ago.
"I think it has worked in South Africa partly because people with enormous influence decided to be statesmen instead of wreckers [and decided] that somehow they were going up or down together. And then they translated those understandings into concrete commitments -- not just an election. An election is only part of it, although a big part.
"The decision to go for a government of national unity for five years is absolutely critical to this -- and making the decision before you know the outcome of the election. The decision to have a bill of rights, the decision to have a constitutional court -- I think all these things have made a huge difference."
Mr. Clinton was extraordinarily well informed about South Africa, and he seemed happy to be talking about an upbeat subject. He remarked that "for the last 10 days, except for my forays on health care, I've done almost nothing but work on Bosnia and Haiti and one or two other foreign policy issues," all no doubt painful.
He said Americans had a particular interest in South Africa because of our own history of racial division.
"If you ask me one thing I have learned in my own life," he said, "growing up as a young boy in the segregated South, it is that this is something that you never solve; you just have to keep improving, you have to keep working with it. My own interest in politics in America was inflamed overwhelmingly by my opposition to racial segregation. . . .
"Unfortunately, human nature being what it is, identifiable differences will always be used by narrow-minded people or frustrated people or ignorant people, or sometimes bad people, as a lever, a wedge, a means of acquiring power or influence or dominance or just inflicting harm."
There is still "too much" discrimination in this country, Mr. Clinton said. As an example he cited the fact that 36 percent of American children under the age of 2 had not had all the necessary immunizations -- and one reason was that they "are more likely to be children of color and more likely to be poor than adults who tend to make the decisions."
A multiracial society can be "an enormous asset in a global economy," he said, but only if we and South Africa take advantage of it by providing adequate education and health care and teaching people "to live together."
In a striking comment, Mr. Clinton said he thought two kinds of societies would do well in today's world: one homogeneous and disciplined, the other multi-ethnic and open. Yet both now had problems. In Japan, reformers were trying to make the society more open, more accepting of diversity. In America we want more discipline, less crime.
Something about the subject had the President speaking philosophically and with unusual eloquence, or so I thought. He plainly cared about South Africa and the hope it represented, and he said he had plans to help the new government.
Together, he said, Nelson Mandela and President F. W. de Klerk "are a stern rebuke to the cynics of the world." Mr. de Klerk had overcome so much of his own Afrikaner people's history, and Mr. Mandela was "able to free himself of the bitterness that would surely have destroyed most people who had to live 27 years behind bars."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); HAITI (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWIS, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



525 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 7164 words

HEADLINE: Uncovered Short Sales Hit Highs at 2 Exchanges

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Short-selling activity, usually done as a bet that stock prices will fall, continued to climb in the month that ended April 8, the New York and American Stock Exchanges reported yesterday.
The Big Board reported that the total short position in its stocks -- the number of shares borrowed and sold short, but not yet covered by repurchasing the shares -- rose 3.5 percent, to a record 1.37 billion shares. At the Amex, the short position rose 4.4 percent, to a record 112.7 million. 
 The increases came as the stock market showed considerable weakness, with most leading market indexes falling as investors reacted to higher interest rates. The figures cover trades settled by April 15, which means those that were transacted a week earlier.
 
Big Move in Hanson
 Although short interest figures are often analyzed as an indication of overall bearishness, there are other reasons for changes in the figures. For example, the largest decrease in position came in Hanson P.L.C., the British conglomerate, where the short position fell 15.8 million shares, to 3.3 million. A big part of that short position had evidently been accumulated as a hedge in connection with a convertible financing, and the completion of the financing evidently let the short positions be liquidated.
 
Useful to Avoid Taxes
 Another factor that has caused the short interest position to increase is tax avoidance. A tax loophole being used by more investors holds that when a single taxholder holds offsetting short and long positions, there is no taxation until one or both positions are closed.
For example, the short interest in Salomon Inc. rose 4.4 million shares, to 8.8 million, and has risen 8.3 million in the last two months. The second-largest holder of Salomon stock, the Dart family, sold 7.6 million shares during that period, exactly offsetting their long position. But they will not owe capital gains taxes on the transaction, even though they no longer have a net economic stake in the company.
The largest increase in short position came in the stock that already had the largest position, RJR Nabisco. It rose 6.4 million shares, to 36.6 million shares, as the company scrambled to arrange new financing that is still pending.
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Positions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	04-15-94	03-15-94	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	RJR Nabisco Hldgs	36,629,402	30,269,239	6,360,163	N	Disney (Walt) Co	24,197,338	24,807,892	 -610,554	N	Chrysler Corp 	22,676,652	21,275,036	1,401,616	N	Unisys Corp 	16,042,791	12,970,187	3,072,604	N	Home Depot Inc 	15,761,851	13,313,963	2,447,888	N	Ford Motor Co 	15,543,217	15,402,769	 140,448	N	Amer Tel & Tel 	15,203,188	12,247,655	2,955,533	N	Glaxo Holdings (ADR)	14,742,357	16,908,528	-2,166,171	N	U S Surgical Corp	13,073,521	11,993,040	1,080,481	N	EMC Corp 	12,272,583	15,610,223	-3,337,640	N	American Barrick	10,568,670	10,747,715	 -179,045	N	Wal-Mart Stores Inc	10,425,544	11,045,892	 -620,348	N	News Corp Ltd (ADR)	8,958,208	9,757,512	 -799,304	N	Salomon Inc 	8,787,450	4,358,631	4,428,819	N	Citicorp 	8,744,078	7,283,851	1,460,227	N	Columbia/HCA Hlthcar	8,643,163	7,741,365	 901,798	N	National Semiconduct	8,484,579	8,602,037	 -117,458	N	Merck & Co 	8,483,342	7,295,736	1,187,606	N	Mylan Labs Inc 	7,742,492	6,863,971	 878,521	N	Borden Inc 	7,526,117	8,279,800	 -753,683	N	Caremark Intl 	7,381,867	6,253,525	1,128,342	N	Stone Container Corp	7,262,570	7,399,963	 -137,393	N	+Lowe's Companies	7,255,217	3,526,276	3,728,941	N	Intl Game Technology	7,219,850	7,339,360	 -119,510	N	Owens-Corning Fiber	7,151,541	6,671,928	 479,613	N	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Cover Ratios	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	04/15/94	Avg. Vol.	Days	Mkt	 	 	 	 	 	 *Turner Broad Sys clb	5,035,670	  74,678	  67	A	Fiat (pref ADR) 	2,044,713	  32,713	  63	N	Nevada Pwr Co 	1,680,660	  29,659	57	N	Trimas Corp 	1,418,151	  25,063	  57	N	Ctl Maine Pwr 	1,765,753	  34,900	  51	N	Kaiser Aluminum 	1,418,702	  30,286	  47	N	Shoney's Inc 	5,200,479	 113,850	  46	N	Cinn Gas Elec Co	5,632,384	 128,540	  44	N	Delmarva Pwr & Lt	2,887,886	  65,681	  44	N	IRT Property Co 	1,619,300	  36,463	  44	N	Terex Corp 	1,447,650	  32,559	  44	N	 *Jan Bell Marketing	3,405,825	  76,639	  44	A	Mark IV Indus. 	4,132,080	  97,177	  43	N	Omnicom Group Inc.	2,954,753	  69,768	  42	N	San Juan Basin Royal	1,224,525	  30,604	  40	N	Snyder Oil Corp 	2,729,498	  68,268	  40	N	Washington Water Pwr	1,179,065	  29,259	  40	N	L.A. Gear Inc. 	3,042,916	  79,759	  38	N	Fleming Companies	3,613,035	 100,168	  36	N	Solectron Corp 	6,253,203	 174,831	  36	N	Southern Natl Corp	 969,611	  26,768	  36	N	Kansas City Pwr Lt	1,617,444	  46,318	  35	N	Longs Drug Stores	1,347,724	  38,559	  35	N	News Corp (ADR) 	8,958,208	 255,240	  35	N	Omnicare Inc. 	 981,452	  28,281	  35	N	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Increases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	04/15/94	03/15/94	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	RJR Nabisco Hldgs	36,629,402	30,269,239	6,360,163	N	Salomon Inc 	8,787,450	4,358,631	4,428,819	N	+Lowe's Companies	7,255,217	3,526,276	3,728,941	N	+United Healthcare	6,487,504	3,110,784	3,376,720	N	Unisys Corp 	16,042,791	12,970,187	3,072,604	N	Amer Tel & Tel 	15,203,188	12,247,655	2,955,533	N	Home Depot Inc 	15,761,851	13,313,963	2,447,888	N	Lomas Fin Corp 	3,899,479	1,758,380	2,141,099	N	Liz Claiborne Inc.	6,582,180	4,464,651	2,117,529	N	Fiat (pref ADR) 	2,044,713	  0	2,044,713	N	Montana Pwr Co 	3,099,356	1,069,816	2,029,540	N	BankAmerica Corp	5,445,192	3,577,760	1,867,432	N	Enterprise Oil ADR	1,891,985	  25,747	1,866,238	N	Advanced Micro Dev	3,492,741	2,001,083	1,491,658	N	Citicorp 	8,744,078	7,283,851	1,460,227	N	Litton Ind. 	1,876,286	 438,794	1,437,492	N	Genentech 	1,827,292	 402,508	1,424,784	N	Chrysler Corp 	22,676,652	21,275,036	1,401,616	N	Exploration Co La	4,304,603	2,964,882	1,339,721	A	 *Energy Service 	3,996,284	2,705,700	1,290,584	A	USAir Group Inc 	4,109,727	2,840,194	1,269,533	N	+Cheyenne Software	4,243,065	2,976,949	1,266,116	A	Callaway Golf Co	4,305,873	3,110,128	1,195,745	N	Nationsbank Corp	1,842,237	 647,468	1,194,769	N	Merck & Co 	8,483,342	7,295,736	1,187,606	N	
 

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Decreases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	04/15/94	03/15/94	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Hanson Plc (ADR)	3,293,284	19,052,557	-15,759,273	N	Eastman Kodak Co	4,208,655	9,973,042	-5,764,387	N	EMC Corp 	12,272,583	15,610,223	-3,337,640	N	Witco Corporation	  49,013	2,309,036	-2,260,023	N	Glaxo Holdings (ADR)	14,742,357	16,908,528	-2,166,171	N	Zeneca Group Plc-ADR	  75,121	2,142,881	-2,067,760	N	Gillette Co 	 899,211	2,867,649	-1,968,438	N	India Fund 	 132,114	1,879,773	-1,747,659	N	Blockbuster Enter	3,096,890	4,841,508	-1,744,618	N	Hecla Mining Co 	1,054,030	2,716,361	-1,662,331	N	Calif Fed Bank 	 860,334	2,388,004	-1,527,670	N	Mattel Inc 	3,409,710	4,936,117	-1,526,407	N	Best Buy Co. 	2,565,585	4,018,684	-1,453,099	N	Mirage Resorts Inc.	 845,940	2,295,702	-1,449,762	N	Conagra Inc 	3,413,013	4,753,828	-1,340,815	N	T2 Medical Inc 	 759,677	1,970,537	-1,210,860	N	Nike Inc class B	1,300,079	2,475,712	-1,175,633	N	Paramount Comm 	 465,375	1,435,495	 -970,120	N	BCE Inc 	1,066,841	2,029,287	 -962,446	N	New South Africa Fnd	  11,500	 945,477	 -933,977	N	Fleming Companies	3,613,035	4,513,445	 -900,410	N	Nat'l Health Labs	2,141,943	3,036,100	 -894,157	N	Colgate-Palmolive Co	1,126,197	2,005,248	 -879,051	N	Detroit Ed Co 	1,070,389	1,931,891	 -861,502	N	ELF Aquitaine (ADR)	 423,556	1,273,020	 -849,464	N	
 

 	 	 	American	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	04/15/94	03/15/94	 	 	 	Abbott Labs 	 737,506	 819,786	ACM Managed Incm Fnd	 369,876	 305,516	Acuson Corp 	 505,404	 586,242	Adams Express 	 403,224	 402,963	ADT Ltd (Com Shs)	1,683,425	1,548,036	Advanced Micro Dev	3,492,741	2,001,083	Agco Corp 	1,856,243	N.L.	Ahmanson (Hf) & Co	2,181,658	2,108,981	Air Products Chem	 472,108	 374,196	Airborne Freight Cor	 898,442	1,111,262	Airtouch Communictns	3,162,437	N.L.	Alaska Air Group	1,869,533	1,372,678	Albany Int'l Cl A	 409,786	 456,731	Albertson's Inc 	 624,204	 636,202	Alcan Aluminium Ltd.	 630,417	 776,331	#Alcatel Alsthom-ADR	 644,870	  73,726	Alco Standard Corp	 937,559	1,216,623	Alex. Brown Incorp	1,619,747	1,651,132	Alexander &Alexander	 801,726	 792,365	Allegheny Ludlum	1,026,544	 911,401	Allegheny Pwr	2,636,757	3,036,825	#Allied Prod Corp	 280,910	  87,217	+Alliedsignal Inc	1,212,169	 753,001	#Allstate Corp 	 877,889	 113,642	Allwaste, Inc. 	 412,734	 487,761	Aluminum Co of Amer	1,255,450	1,325,172	Alza Corp (Com Stk)	2,385,927	1,899,725	Amax Gold Inc. 	 511,489	 533,166	Amer Brands 	1,258,776	1,445,649	Amer Elec Pwr 	1,333,862	1,607,852	Amer Express Co 	2,493,838	1,921,652	Amer General 	1,215,129	 893,836	Amer Healthcare Mgt	 449,222	 523,700	Amer Home Products	1,291,762	1,010,454	Amer Stores Co 	1,394,819	1,621,332	Amer Tel & Tel 	15,203,188	12,247,655	Amerada Hess Corp	 949,821	 834,980	American Barrick	10,568,670	10,747,715	#American Cyanamid Co	 673,416	 250,342	American Intl Group	1,406,855	1,128,389	American Re Corp	1,019,150	 903,300	Ameritech Corp 	2,087,735	2,499,101	Amoco Corp 	2,979,177	2,683,209	AMP Incorp 	 912,709	 983,447	AMR Corp 	2,348,918	1,847,575	Amsouth Bancorp 	 894,867	 818,564	Anacomp, Inc. 	1,137,697	1,352,155	Anadarko Petroleum	 726,910	 464,956	Anheuser Busch Co	1,295,975	1,877,103	#Anntaylor Stores	 704,834	 305,040	Apache Corp 	1,878,692	2,036,751	Applied Magnetics	 368,856	 385,202	Archer Daniels 	 730,974	1,142,693	ArmcO Inc 	1,044,763	1,010,695	Armstrong World Ind	 358,175	 326,768	Arrow Electronics	1,556,873	1,506,896	Arvin Ind,inc 	 996,479	1,036,882	#Arx 	  55,514	 319,656	Asarco Inc 	 428,140	 512,988	Ashland Oil 	4,624,644	4,398,669	Atlanta Gas Light	 477,383	 363,575	Atlantic Energy Inc.	 830,768	 674,877	Atlantic Richfield	 803,522	 742,954	Automatic Data Proc	1,019,801	1,282,968	Autozone Inc 	3,924,573	4,094,977	Avon Products 	 924,313	 798,504	Baker Hughes Inc	1,361,538	1,375,571	Ballard Medical Prod	 478,859	 306,517	Bally Mfg Corp 	1,674,169	1,748,889	Balt Gas & Elec Co	1,036,962	 667,748	Banc One Corp 	2,693,230	3,047,058	#Banco Frances de Rio	 301,186	  78,267	Banco Santndr (ADR)	 351,501	 321,902	Bank of Boston Corp	1,279,542	1,014,026	Bank of New York	2,282,713	2,092,770	#Bank Tr Ny 	1,939,045	 980,748	Bankamerica Corp	5,445,192	3,577,760	Bard (C R) Inc. 	 288,572	 579,691	Barnes & Noble Inc	1,413,136	1,663,318	Barnett Banks Inc	1,690,828	1,606,408	Battle Mtn Gold 	 454,729	 624,450	Bausch & Lomb Inc	 682,251	 515,558	Baxter International	1,247,573	1,138,819	BCE Inc 	1,066,841	2,029,287	Bear Stearns Co 	2,918,544	2,625,622	#Beazer Homes USA Inc	  19,000	 696,500	Becton, Dickinson Co	 244,339	 464,752	Bell Atlantic Corp	6,445,252	6,476,315	#Bellsouth Corp 	1,649,897	 874,063	Best Buy Co., Inc.	2,565,585	4,018,684	Bethlehem Steel Corp	3,469,022	2,714,352	Betz Labs Inc 	 814,275	 871,837	Beverly Enterprises	2,877,403	2,937,875	Black & Decker Corp	 944,638	 880,120	#Black Hills Corp	 291,900	  44,741	Block (H & R) Inc	1,339,226	1,476,701	Blockbuster Enter	3,096,890	4,841,508	Boeing Company 	1,810,457	2,183,257	Boise Cascade Corp	2,805,794	2,053,558	Bolt Beranek Newman	 558,412	 606,436	Bombay Company 	 658,368	1,163,069	Borden Inc 	7,526,117	8,279,800	#Boston Edison Co	1,126,224	 368,534	Bowater Inc 	 627,035	 531,697	BP Prudhoe Bay Rlty	 756,229	 726,362	Bradlees Inc 	 742,608	 807,608	Breed Technologies	 620,470	 366,044	Brinker Intl 	 509,298	 423,502	Bristol-Myers Squibb	2,043,401	1,823,408	British Gas (ADR)	 372,469	 354,772	#British Petrol (ADR)	1,038,887	 539,764	Browning Ferris Ind	1,500,161	2,096,964	Brunswick Corp 	 967,248	1,128,546	Burlington Northern	1,147,115	1,418,447	Burlington Resources	 968,235	 881,329	Cable + Wireless ADR	 179,164	 567,340	Cabletron Systems	 261,642	 755,925	Caldor Corp 	 613,653	 537,092	Calif Energy Co 	1,225,143	1,439,771	Calif Fed Bank 	 860,334	2,388,004	Callaway Golf Co	4,305,873	3,110,128	Campbell Soup Co	 565,492	 779,617	Caremark Intl 	7,381,867	6,253,525	Carnival Cruise Cl A	2,162,110	2,169,456	Carolina Pwr & Light	1,492,579	1,568,180	Carter Hawley	4,052,627	4,228,452	Carter-Wallace 	1,240,807	1,341,082	Catellus Develop	1,857,557	2,092,501	Caterpillar 	1,395,660	1,430,490	CBS Inc 	 451,549	 423,277	Centerior Ener Corp	1,579,924	1,574,928	Centex Corp 	1,159,407	1,156,643	Century Telephone	1,558,055	1,587,925	Ceridian Corp 	1,471,850	1,166,923	Champion Intl Corp	2,228,693	1,783,054	Chase Manhattan Corp	 978,193	 873,186	Chemical Banking Prk	2,159,803	1,645,695	Chemical Waste Mgt	 896,950	 813,400	Chevron Corp 	2,589,645	2,556,371	#Chic By H.I.S., Inc.	 809,146	 328,176	Chile Fund Inc 	 469,803	 448,762	China Fund Inc 	 374,421	 457,041	Chiquita Brands Intl	1,997,061	2,036,028	Chock Full O'nuts	1,153,702	1,198,361	Chrysler Corp 	22,676,652	21,275,036	#Chubb Corp 	1,168,300	 493,934	Cigna Corp 	1,048,530	 839,834	Cineplex Odeon Corp	1,007,479	1,686,739	Cinn Gas Elec Co	5,632,384	4,674,208	Cipsco Inc (Hldg Co)	 790,386	 628,655	Circuit City Stores	1,274,223	1,190,565	Circus Circus Ent	1,585,455	2,215,217	Citicorp 	8,744,078	7,283,851	CML Group, Inc. 	6,318,012	6,652,553	Coachmen Ind, Inc	 682,372	 593,226	Coastal Corp 	 470,543	 682,422	#Coastcast Corp 	 572,996	 274,550	Coca Cola Co 	5,778,118	5,493,350	Coca-Cola Enter 	 460,010	 560,356	Coeur D'alene Mines	2,003,753	1,819,642	Cold Metal Products	 390,420	N.L.	Colgate-Palmolive Co	1,126,197	2,005,248	Coltec Industries	1,322,322	1,309,126	Columbia Gas System	 691,725	1,053,596	Columbia/Hca Hlthcar	8,643,163	7,741,365	Comdisco Inc 	 427,755	 371,018	Commodore Intl 	1,144,198	1,176,419	Community Psychr	1,281,047	1,215,668	Compaq Computer Corp	2,727,440	3,031,350	Compusa Inc. 	4,945,555	4,885,567	Computer Assoc Intl	3,091,042	3,525,889	#Computervision Corp	 772,325	 418,310	Comsat Corporation	 382,732	 277,105	Conagra Inc 	3,413,013	4,753,828	Conner Peripherals	3,647,543	3,554,289	#Conrail (Hldg Co)	 640,975	 291,808	Conseco, Inc. 	2,790,952	2,271,967	Consolidated Ed 	2,230,773	2,392,804	Consolidated Freight	 883,266	 628,725	Consolidated Nat Gas	 971,830	 931,608	Consolidated Stores	1,169,039	1,111,503	Continental Corp	 560,280	 660,055	Contl Medical System	1,070,914	1,179,703	Cooper Companies	 363,509	 770,236	Cooper Ind Inc 	1,435,820	1,385,784	Cooper Tire & Rubber	1,186,293	1,734,587	Corestates Financial	4,054,048	4,522,450	Corning Inc 	2,215,539	1,658,544	Countrywide Credit	4,190,532	3,352,438	CPC Intl Inc	 930,759	1,040,652	Craig (Jenny) Inc	 569,446	 504,063	#Criimi Mae, Inc.	  6,443	 516,697	Crown Cork & Seal Co	 537,023	 487,099	CSX Corp 	 446,663	 597,977	CTL & South West	3,090,515	2,137,949	CTL Hudson G/E 	 657,600	 556,517	CTL Louisiana El	 407,714	 489,061	CTL Maine Pwr 	1,765,753	1,776,300	CUC Intl Inc 	1,006,538	 597,108	Cummins Engine Co	 354,929	 267,095	Cwealth Ed Co 	2,675,679	3,166,513	Cypress Semiconductr	 623,525	 442,659	Cyprus Amax Minerals	1,411,743	1,407,683	Daimler-Benz Ag-ADR	 281,300	 513,900	Dana Corp 	 474,211	 313,093	Data General Corp	 434,656	 385,414	Dayton-Hudson 	1,299,727	1,076,284	#Dean Witter Discover	 500,940	 182,284	Deere & Co 	 437,718	 635,690	Delmarva Pwr & Lt	2,887,886	2,657,882	Delta Air Lines, Inc	4,311,909	3,727,743	Deluxe Corp 	1,535,412	1,264,460	Detroit Ed Co 	1,070,389	1,931,891	Diagnostek, Inc.	1,666,870	1,458,800	Dial Corp. (The)	 846,185	 817,692	Diamond Shamrock Inc	1,378,121	1,149,504	Digital Equipment	1,887,896	2,507,197	Dillard Dep't Cl A	 679,855	 551,651	Disney (Walt) Co	24,197,338	24,807,892	Dole Food Company	 153,419	 353,487	Dominion Resources	1,399,128	 919,927	Donnelley (Rr) Sons	 496,800	 534,811	Dow Chemical Co 	1,548,595	2,103,147	DPL Inc 	1,232,700	 852,720	Dqe 	 614,125	 533,252	Dresser Inds Inc	2,655,454	3,095,133	Dreyfus Corp 	 401,477	 350,656	Duff & Phelps Util	 161,111	 536,503	Duke Pwr Co 	1,065,054	1,372,518	Dupont (Ei) De Nem	3,393,212	2,969,937	Duracell Int'l 	3,439,627	3,155,861	Duty Free Intl 	2,318,429	2,371,546	Eastman Kodak Co	4,208,655	9,973,042	Eaton Corp 	1,195,747	1,269,413	Edison Bros Stores	 490,297	 536,711	EK Chor China Motor	 460,995	 393,750	ELF Aquitaine (ADR)	 423,556	1,273,020	EMC Corp 	12,272,583	15,610,223	Emerg Mkts Flt Rte	 956,185	N.L.	Emerson Electric Co	 604,761	 703,612	Empresas Ica Soc-ADR	1,881,000	1,253,828	Engelhard Corp 	 550,736	 856,301	Enron Corp 	 727,615	1,038,519	Enron Oil & Gas Co	 365,675	 403,509	Entergy Corp 	2,937,440	2,665,731	#Enterprise Oil ADR	1,891,985	  25,747	Equitable Companies	4,041,686	4,484,250	Ethyl Corp 	 561,747	 510,112	Exxon Corp 	3,571,272	3,625,419	Fairchild Corp Cl A	 439,500	 439,500	Fed Express Corp	 449,432	 591,470	Fed Home Loan Mtge	1,980,895	1,330,910	Fed National Mtge	1,233,828	 750,879	Fed Paper Board 	 976,435	1,208,303	Fedders Corp 	 519,335	 468,515	Federal-Mogul 	2,451,796	2,399,095	Federated Dept Store	 855,180	1,207,586	#Fiat (Ordinary ADR)	 650,151	  30,841	Fiat (Pref ADR) 	2,044,713	  0	Fidelity Natl Fin	 694,800	 602,320	#Fieldcrest Cannon	 651,159	 255,460	First Bank Syt Inc	1,743,365	1,419,276	First Chicago Corp	 697,450	 639,385	First Data Corp 	2,026,437	1,990,058	First Fidelity Banco	 918,922	 866,771	First Fin Management	1,179,163	1,525,854	#First Intst Bancorp	 886,406	 440,799	First Repub Bancorp	 763,034	 753,169	First Union Corp	1,024,010	 708,189	First Usa Inc 	1,723,218	1,247,035	Fisher Scientific	 987,933	 982,242	Fleet Fin Group 	1,346,788	 961,398	#Fleetwood Enter 	 246,431	  43,397	Fleming Companies	3,613,035	4,513,445	Florida Progress	1,807,676	1,598,349	#Flowers Ind,inc 	 400,719	  75,709	Fluor Corp 	1,391,027	 955,205	Ford Motor Co 	15,543,217	15,402,769	Foster Wheeler 	 565,228	 671,285	Foundation Health	 165,615	 357,411	FPL Group Inc 	1,062,034	1,088,892	Franklin Resources	1,181,576	 979,255	Freeport-Mcmoran C&G	 776,884	 872,659	Freeport-Mcmoran Inc	2,992,047	3,171,773	Fremont General Corp	 373,177	 404,966	Fruehauf Trailer	1,543,646	1,408,446	Fruit of The Loom	1,346,596	1,217,899	Galoob (Lewis) Toys	 981,650	1,080,585	Gannett Co Inc 	 467,081	 483,385	Gap,inc 	1,175,327	1,028,023	Gencorp Inc 	2,118,201	2,222,981	#Genentech 	1,827,292	 402,508	General Amer Inv	 518,981	 516,458	General Datacomm	 436,774	 429,120	General Dynamics	 361,828	 221,026	General Electric Co	3,152,205	3,242,359	General Host Corp	 818,128	 810,275	General Instrument	4,502,952	3,475,256	General Mills, Inc	1,666,127	1,673,207	General Motors Corp	4,048,786	3,240,310	General Pub Util	1,170,428	1,660,869	#General Re Corp 	 371,352	 198,989	Genesis Health Ventu	1,244,540	1,100,738	Georgia Gulf 	 565,703	 631,130	Georgia-Pacific 	 754,799	 733,807	Gerber Products Co	 705,557	1,321,589	Gerrity Oil & Gas	 867,766	 825,983	Gillette Co 	 899,211	2,867,649	Glaxo Holdings (ADR)	14,742,357	16,908,528	Glendale Federal	 392,339	 455,274	Global Privatz Fund	3,079,904	3,659,681	GM Class E Comm 	2,100,142	2,113,267	#Golden West Fincorp	 434,433	 213,733	Goodrich Bf Co 	 400,538	 369,961	Goodyear Tire Rubber	1,564,806	1,555,835	Grace (WR) Co (Hldg)	 638,594	 757,901	Great Atl & Pacific	 351,985	 439,529	Great Lakes Chemical	 378,412	 434,983	Great Western Fin	2,295,282	2,640,050	#Grumman Corp 	 314,078	  51,143	Grupo Mexicano Ser L	 133,800	 343,600	Grupo Televisa (Gds)	 655,295	 878,890	GTE Corp	1,005,083	 838,044	Gtech Hldgs Corp	 379,147	 538,955	Halliburton Co 	 836,104	 518,628	#Hanson Plc (ADR)	3,293,284	19,052,557	Hawaiian Elec Indust	 437,992	 283,906	Health Care Property	 559,020	 489,000	Health Images Inc	 437,395	 748,444	Healthsouth Rehab	 363,206	 241,600	Healthtrust Inc-Thc	1,194,096	1,255,528	Hecla Mining Co 	1,054,030	2,716,361	Heinz (Hj) Co 	3,129,228	2,702,057	Hercules Inc	1,229,104	1,219,095	Hewlett-Packard Co	1,951,859	1,902,034	Hexcel Corp 	 790,273	 699,755	Hillenbrand Ind, Inc	 385,169	 384,276	Hillhaven Corp 	 492,075	 644,620	Home Depot Inc 	15,761,851	13,313,963	Home Shopping Net	1,247,250	1,145,337	Homestake Mining Co	1,364,134	1,453,936	Honeywell Inc 	1,068,782	1,217,399	Hong Kong Tele (ADR)	2,133,509	1,779,431	#+Hospitalty Franchise	1,483,407	 789,454	Host Marriott Corp	3,396,913	3,605,754	Houston Ind, Inc	 788,566	1,077,038	ICN Pharmaceuticals	 625,372	 651,977	Idaho Pwr Co 	 773,291	 826,388	IES Industries 	 366,297	 263,264	Ill Pwr Co 	 325,225	 781,690	IMC Fertilizer Group	 802,654	 531,310	Imper Chem (ADR)	 732,306	1,425,480	Inco Limited 	 965,551	 824,087	#India Fund 	 132,114	1,879,773	Ingersoll-Rand Co	 578,837	 667,587	Inland Steel Ind	1,469,955	1,076,173	INT Flavors & Frag	1,657,671	1,685,553	Integon Corp	 500,175	 506,006	Integrated Hlth Svcs	1,533,766	1,391,148	Interco Inc 	 535,172	 514,384	International Tech	 961,475	 976,348	Intl Business Mach	5,401,238	5,320,704	Intl Game Technology	7,219,850	7,339,360	Intl Paper Co 	1,667,293	1,762,020	Ionics, Inc. 	 817,970	 802,848	#Ipalco Enterprises	 817,735	 377,388	IRT Property Co 	1,619,300	1,514,500	ITT Corp 	 443,796	 342,546	James River Corp	 629,558	 373,531	Jamesway Corp 	 595,321	 597,900	#Jardine Flemng India	 362,157	  52,787	Johnson & Johnson	2,244,758	2,404,643	Jostens Inc 	 964,595	 786,937	Kaiser Aluminum 	1,418,702	1,422,616	Kansas City Pwr Lt	1,617,444	1,363,411	Kaufman & Broad Home	2,250,706	1,817,116	Kellogg Co 	2,320,806	2,951,842	+Kellwood Company	 446,693	 288,106	Kemper Corp 	1,478,511	1,738,381	Keycorp 	1,458,878	2,239,377	Keystone Intl Inc	 390,155	 426,820	Kimberly Clark Corp	 626,534	 631,581	KLM Royal Air 	 573,250	1,395,730	Kmart D/S A"percs'	 354,964	 626,650	Kmart Corp 	5,687,200	6,244,483	Knight Ridder 	 674,159	 788,343	Korea Fund Inc 	 599,569	 694,111	Kroger Company 	4,489,094	4,966,531	L.A. Gear, Inc. 	3,042,916	2,474,321	Lafarge Corporation	 798,749	 740,324	Lasmo Plc (ADR) 	1,062,056	1,065,245	Lear Seating Corp	 905,081	N.L.	Legg Mason Inc 	1,177,101	1,194,462	Leslie Fay Co'S 	 631,600	 565,018	Lg&E Energy Corp	 806,181	 592,379	Lilco 	2,057,513	2,644,171	Lilly (Eli) & Co	 974,018	 835,418	Limited, Inc,the	2,526,931	3,110,404	Lincoln National Cp	 359,152	 413,371	#Litton Ind, Inc 	1,876,286	 438,794	Liz Claiborne, Inc.	6,582,180	4,464,651	Lockheed Corp 	 475,025	 536,549	Loews Corp 	 356,325	 414,596	#Lomas Fin Corp 	3,899,479	1,758,380	Lone Star Ind Inc	 481,000	1,079,200	Longs Drug Stores	1,347,724	1,446,565	Louisiana Land Expln	 377,080	 241,757	Louisiana-Pacific	 521,344	 788,056	#+Lowe's Companies	7,255,217	3,526,276	#LSI Logic Corp 	2,413,750	1,358,694	LTV Corp 	 566,232	 569,040	Lubrizol Corp, The	 396,511	 496,519	#Luby's Cafeterias	 300,721	  84,229	Lukens, Inc. 	 479,128	 457,985	LVI Group Inc 	1,146,774	 995,774	Magma Copper Co 	3,620,494	3,438,926	Magna Intl Inc. Cl A	2,287,507	1,806,897	Magnetek Inc 	2,438,664	2,293,540	Mallinckrodt Group	 394,372	N.L.	Manor Care Inc 	 383,975	 249,499	Manpower Inc 	1,257,937	1,358,465	Manville Corp 	 386,752	 410,705	Marion Merrell Dow	1,491,600	1,375,269	Mark Iv Indust 	4,132,080	4,096,950	Marriot Intl Inc	 650,205	 499,605	Marsh And Mclennan	 549,878	 471,838	Martin Marietta 	 291,899	 573,980	Marvel Enter Group	3,063,803	3,086,852	Masco Corp 	 806,776	1,232,313	Mascotech, Inc. 	3,154,119	3,305,837	Mattel Inc	3,409,710	4,936,117	Maxus Energy 	 814,940	 635,852	Maxxim Medical Inc	 374,948	 607,443	May Department Store	 757,832	 855,099	Maytag Corp 	 662,899	1,013,716	McDonald'S Corp 	1,871,381	2,132,686	Medical Care America	2,917,484	3,151,822	Mediplex Group 	 602,296	 424,763	Medtronic Inc 	 408,697	 512,542	Medusa Corporation	 538,777	 485,703	Mellon Bank Corp	2,791,123	1,911,772	Melville Corp 	1,016,071	 747,423	Merck & Co 	8,483,342	7,295,736	Merrill Lynch & Co	3,317,176	3,298,800	Merry Land & Invest	1,621,627	1,338,350	Merry-Go-Round 	 577,616	 660,333	Mesa Inc. 	 578,204	 654,018	Mgic Invest Corp	3,574,293	3,465,818	MGM Grand, Inc. 	 893,037	 680,652	Micron Tech 	1,366,772	1,030,980	Mid-Amer Waste Sys	 728,061	 795,047	Midwest Resources	 939,166	1,111,925	Minn Mng & Mfg (3m)	2,631,362	1,654,075	Minn Power & Light	 751,285	 818,445	Mirage Resorts, Inc.	 845,940	2,295,702	Mobil Corp 	1,447,264	1,171,555	Monsanto Co 	 687,787	 560,484	#Montana Pwr Co 	3,099,356	1,069,816	Morgan (Jp) & Co	 802,507	 565,186	#Morgan Stan India	 324,608	 126,274	Morgan Stanley Group	 751,208	 610,136	Motorola Inc 	6,488,926	6,893,702	Mylan Labs Inc 	7,742,492	6,863,971	Nat'l Health Labs	2,141,943	3,036,100	National City Corp	1,738,427	1,360,925	National Semiconduct	8,484,579	8,602,037	National Service	 693,370	 651,193	#Nationsbank Corp	1,842,237	 647,468	Natl Medical Enter	 590,911	 998,438	Navistar Intl (Hldg)	 383,403	 425,987	NBD Bancorp, Inc	 882,731	1,054,656	Nevada Pwr Co 	1,680,660	1,404,102	New Eng El System	1,956,255	1,542,830	New Plan Realty 	 900,157	 832,730	#New South Africa Fnd	  11,500	 945,477	New York State E/Gas	 708,409	 579,068	Newell Co. 	 591,427	 570,441	Newmont Mining Corp	1,540,300	1,221,465	News Corp Ltd (ADR)	8,958,208	9,757,512	Niagara Mohawk Pwr	1,102,357	1,517,089	Nicor, Inc 	 617,474	 576,220	Nike Inc Class B	1,300,079	2,475,712	#Nine West Group Inc	 301,915	  99,208	Nipsco Industries	 890,752	 672,856	NL Industries 	 458,328	 321,628	Noble Affiliates,inc	1,035,720	 894,987	Norfolk Southern Co	 464,016	 568,251	Northeast Utilities	3,407,319	3,287,115	Northrop Corp 	 465,341	 459,541	Norwest Corp 	2,996,965	2,923,770	Novacare, Inc. 	1,543,735	1,581,638	Nrthrn Telecom Ltd	1,994,353	1,736,402	Nthrn Border Partner	 383,411	 380,800	Nthrn States Power	 842,828	 700,797	Nucor Corp 	 928,718	 838,147	Nynex Corp 	1,016,191	 899,026	Occidental Petrol	5,864,911	6,360,316	Oea, Inc. 	 637,859	 708,706	office Depot Inc	5,726,891	5,537,910	offshore Pipelines	 698,412	 726,881	Ogden Corp 	1,643,351	1,576,566	Ohio Ed Co 	 711,201	 737,587	Oklahoma Gas & El	 989,090	 747,522	OLD Republic Intl	1,269,866	1,342,162	Omnicare,inc 	 981,452	1,066,248	Omnicom Group Inc.	2,954,753	2,951,027	Oryx Energy Company	1,032,458	 962,251	Outboard Marine Corp	1,359,814	1,636,181	Owens-Corning Fiber	7,151,541	6,671,928	Owens-Illinois Inc	 877,477	 687,048	Pacific Gas & Elec	 679,313	 930,195	#Pacific Telesis Gr.	1,277,298	 705,174	Pacificorp 	4,180,762	3,909,192	+Paine Webber Inc	1,722,288	1,372,944	Pall Corp 	 702,146	 435,536	Paramount Comm 	 465,375	1,435,495	#Parker+parsley Petrl	 267,629	  29,478	Parker-Hannifin Corp	 474,582	 348,646	Peco Energy Co 	2,031,729	1,396,009	Penn Pwr & Lt Co	2,713,916	2,293,391	Penney (Jc) Co 	 752,016	 700,825	#Pep Boys M M & Jack	1,499,275	 427,142	Pepsico Inc 	3,384,212	3,011,956	Pet Inc 	 131,002	 340,798	Petrie Stores Corp	 967,776	 962,001	Petroleum & Resource	 400,296	 400,683	Pfizer Inc 	2,065,812	1,199,767	Pharmaceutical Res	 379,946	 451,714	Phelps Dodge Corp	 976,545	1,077,438	Philip Morris Co'S	2,019,446	2,634,220	Philips N.V	1,152,581	1,767,528	#Phillips Petroleum	1,090,164	 403,228	Pier 1 Imports 	 432,691	 342,771	Pioneer Fin Svcs	 916,816	 935,691	Pitney Bowes 	 467,507	 540,703	Placer Dome Inc.	 388,487	 419,528	PNC Bank Corp 	 935,058	 738,881	#Pogo Producing Co	1,080,854	 229,203	Policy Management	 743,528	1,033,078	Portland Genl Corp	 883,500	 677,600	Potomac El Pwr Co	2,182,675	2,435,501	PPG Ind Inc 	 533,006	 377,331	Praxair Inc 	 882,002	 674,922	Procter And Gamble	2,911,844	2,909,133	Progressive Corp	 580,775	 710,730	Promus Co'S Inc	 985,678	 846,948	PS Group 	 363,650	 369,646	Pub Svc Co Colorado	 977,083	 979,582	Public Svc Enter Grp	 858,859	1,284,594	Puget Sound Pwr & Lt	 447,974	 490,378	Quaker Oats Co 	 633,150	 435,498	#Quaker State Corp	 283,225	  52,388	Quick & Reilly Group	 397,707	 367,305	Ralcorp Holdings	 257,659	N.L.	Ralston-Ralston Pur	1,020,137	1,033,826	Raychem Corp 	 787,806	 655,157	Raytheon Co 	 630,022	 547,509	Reader's Digest"a"	 534,230	 407,382	Reading & Bates 	 394,272	 486,322	Reebok Intl Ltd 	 470,981	 370,647	Regency Health Svcs	1,231,371	N.L.	Reliance Elec Co"a'	 427,287	 421,004	Republic Ny Corp	 470,800	 427,409	Reynolds Metal Co	 315,469	 669,911	#Rhone-Poulenc Ord A	 401,920	  64,200	Rhone-Poulenc Rorer	 787,549	 880,835	#Rite Aid Corp 	 521,865	 293,261	Riverwood Intl Corp	 729,180	 775,193	RJR Nabisco D/S-B	 351,973	 266,951	RJR Nabisco Hldgs	36,629,402	30,269,239	RLI Corp (Il) 	 428,481	 425,049	Rockefeller Center	2,508,499	2,552,500	Rockwell Intl Corp	 811,657	 765,134	Rollins Environment	 939,518	1,043,998	Rouge Steel Co Cl A	 387,833	N.L.	Rowan Companies 	 395,958	 250,212	Royal Appliance Mfg	1,028,888	1,027,000	Royal Dch Ptrl 5 Gld	 886,109	 741,970	Rubbermaid Inc. 	 972,983	 880,934	Russ Berrie & Co Inc	1,213,902	1,269,600	Russell Corp 	1,036,095	1,145,096	Ryder System Inc	 859,482	 569,451	Sabine Royalty Trust	 403,428	 396,464	Safety-Kleen Corp	1,078,996	1,123,787	Safeway Inc 	4,249,501	4,085,636	#Salomon Inc 	8,787,450	4,358,631	San Diego Gas & El	 820,625	1,107,587	San Juan Basin Royal	1,224,525	1,256,397	Santa Fe Pacif Corp	 614,715	 437,541	Sara Lee Corp 	3,212,760	3,379,424	Savannah Foods & Ind	 684,700	 687,300	Scana Corp 	1,339,350	1,195,904	Scecorp (Hldg Co.)	1,706,915	1,604,301	Schering-Plough Corp	 794,161	 650,537	Schlumberger Ltd	 862,751	1,031,842	Schwab (Charles)	5,708,259	4,847,566	Scientific Atlanta	 715,697	 791,630	Scott Paper Co 	 431,457	 581,454	Sea Containers"a"	 470,380	 333,530	Seagram Co. Ltd 	 906,193	 652,195	Sealed Air Corp 	 426,583	 451,208	Sears Roebuck & Co	2,723,019	2,257,226	Seitel, Inc. 	 944,888	 992,354	Sensormatic Elec	2,610,450	2,496,732	Service Corp Intl	1,760,191	1,685,157	#Shaw Industries 	1,063,625	 495,902	Shawmut National	1,729,488	1,593,589	Shoney's Inc 	5,200,479	5,451,285	#Sierra Pacific Res.	 733,709	 331,416	Silicon Graphics	2,143,103	2,555,583	Smith's Food/Rx Cl B	 719,169	 822,095	Smthkl Beech ADR Eqt	 938,924	 968,044	Snyder Oil Corp 	2,729,498	2,745,632	Sofamor Danek Group	3,032,675	3,044,345	Solectron Corp 	6,253,203	6,140,938	Sonat,inc 	 371,345	 455,844	Sotheby's Hldgs Cl A	 686,363	 888,742	Southdown Inc	1,734,401	1,934,473	Southern Co 	2,776,643	2,930,079	Southern Natl Corp	 969,611	 947,037	#Southern Pacif Rail	 994,212	 526,378	Southwest Airlines	1,419,394	1,092,016	Southwestern Bell	1,985,026	1,326,753	Southwestern Pub Svc	 644,169	 596,929	Sprint Corp 	2,409,593	1,922,416	Stanley Works 	 351,364	 261,110	Starter Corp 	 730,500	 673,660	Statesman Group 	1,176,421	1,060,330	Sterling Software	 476,778	 595,424	Stone Container Corp	7,262,570	7,399,963	Stop & Shop Co'S	1,205,439	1,163,285	Storage Equities Inc	 412,044	 376,956	Storage Tech 	5,365,767	6,180,722	Stratus Computer Inc	 384,727	 359,168	#Stride Rite Corp	1,136,682	 461,760	Student Loan-Vot C/S	 730,570	 488,135	#Summit Properties	  2,125	 458,273	Sun Co, Inc 	 277,985	 740,079	Sun Healthcare Group	 950,425	 863,094	Sunshine Mining Co	2,280,156	3,068,595	Suntrust Banks Inc	 526,235	 561,449	Surgical Care Aff	2,134,200	2,607,925	Svc Merchandise Co	 658,701	 744,937	Symbol Technologies	2,194,569	2,033,176	Syntex Corp 	2,762,304	3,103,524	Sysco Corp 	2,477,183	2,484,967	T2 Medical Inc 	 759,677	1,970,537	Tambrands Inc 	1,278,536	1,397,063	Tandem Computers	2,525,344	2,371,689	Tandy Corp 	 749,196	 663,599	#Taubman Centers, Inc	  79,164	 353,604	Teco Energy 	1,360,689	1,213,584	Tel de Argentina-Ads	1,138,205	1,349,804	Tel De Mexico ADR L	3,737,351	2,893,834	Telecom Corp NZ ADR	 510,672	 412,176	Teledyne Inc 	 432,318	 499,789	Telef De Espana ADR	 625,087	 682,450	Temple Inland Inc	 430,963	 368,621	Tenneco Inc (Hld Co)	 690,429	 678,504	Terex Corp 	1,447,650	1,718,135	#Terra Industries Inc	  16,623	 282,022	Texaco Inc 	 955,939	 651,106	Texas Instruments	 800,631	1,084,418	Texas Util Co 	1,163,205	1,771,862	Thermo Electron Corp	5,322,395	4,615,759	Tiffany & Co. 	 692,715	 702,730	Time Warner Inc.	4,743,327	3,588,111	Times Mirror Co, The	2,311,335	2,560,732	Titan Wheel Intl Inc	 453,250	N.L.	TJX Companies Inc.	1,015,138	1,089,559	Toll Brothers 	 611,130	 413,235	Tosco Corp 	1,620,688	1,728,059	Total (ADR-B Shr)	 430,105	 371,805	Toys"r" Us, Inc	2,663,710	2,538,349	Trans Mar Mex(ADR L)	 417,300	 356,900	Transco Energy Co	1,049,989	1,130,289	Travelers Inc 	1,524,981	1,633,087	Tri Continental Corp	 838,918	 831,925	Triarc Co'S, Cl A	 421,374	 398,455	#Tribune Co 	 679,139	 312,387	Trimas Corp 	1,418,151	1,437,430	Trinity Ind 	 809,899	 759,608	Triton Energy Corp	 362,409	 308,677	TRW Inc 	 406,847	 486,783	Tucson El Pwr Co	3,865,601	4,180,631	Tyco Intl Ltd 	1,253,194	1,470,713	Tyco Toys, Inc. 	1,490,053	1,732,214	U S Surgical Corp	13,073,521	11,993,040	U S West Inc 	1,540,779	1,367,927	UAL Corporation 	 648,205	 483,425	UJB Financial 	 407,185	 398,782	Unifi, Inc. 	1,478,008	1,676,360	#Unilever Plc (ADR)	 459,250	  59,048	Union Camp Corp 	 591,875	 732,232	Union Carbide Corp	1,952,289	1,698,902	Union Elec Co 	 559,937	 816,311	Union Pacific Corp	 774,117	 600,540	Union Planters Corp	 815,021	 778,496	Union Texas Petrol	1,134,202	1,161,684	Unisys Corp 	16,042,791	12,970,187	Unisys Ser A Pfd	1,281,493	1,554,906	United Asset Manage	1,014,229	1,033,158	#+United Healthcare	6,487,504	3,110,784	United States Filter	 411,039	 372,905	United Tech Corp	 669,537	 775,370	#Universal Corp(Hldg)	 609,284	 145,619	Unocal Corp 	1,449,862	1,450,220	Upjohn Company 	4,821,014	4,611,122	US Home Corp 	 419,037	 432,839	#US Shoe Corp 	 518,699	 228,927	USA Waste Services	 974,881	 953,150	USAir Group Inc 	4,109,727	2,840,194	Usf&G Corp 	1,796,742	2,020,912	USG Corp 	 491,308	 839,631	#USX Captl Llc"Mips'	  15,330	 260,532	Usx-Marathon Group	 922,173	 586,276	Usx-U.S. Steel Group	 842,135	1,083,801	Utilicorp United Inc	 648,906	 589,620	#V F Corp 	 582,188	 316,342	Valero Energy 	 734,612	 432,748	Value Health 	1,011,682	1,082,874	Van Kampen Mer Inter	 389,562	 335,951	Vencor Inc. 	 352,588	 336,702	Vodafone Group (ADR)	 403,054	 392,394	Waban Inc 	2,754,224	2,767,628	Wachovia Corp 	 969,595	 808,828	Wal-Mart Stores Inc	10,425,544	11,045,892	Walgreen Co 	 692,631	 787,572	Warnaco Group Cl A	 610,142	 525,166	Warner Lambert Co	 536,364	 492,119	#Washington Water Pwr	1,179,065	 106,001	Waterhouse Inv Svcs	 598,973	 669,995	Weingarten Rlty Inv	 512,425	 522,941	Wellcome Plc (ADR)	 681,900	 444,088	Wells Fargo & Co	 670,666	 679,233	Wendy's Intl 	1,867,843	1,792,820	Western Atlas Inc	 273,440	  0	Western Digital Corp	1,474,172	1,798,716	Westinghouse Elect	3,337,846	3,824,322	Westinghouse$1.53dep	1,020,300	 921,710	Weyerhaeuser Co 	1,218,962	1,116,115	Wheelabrator Tech	 798,273	 635,104	Wheeling-Pitt 	2,976,019	3,075,763	Whirlpool Corp 	 458,455	 637,657	Willcox & Gibbs Inc	 869,498	 935,501	Windmere Corp 	 607,475	 613,150	Wisconsin Energy	 788,211	 713,095	Wisconsin Pub Svc	 511,837	 462,700	#Witco Corporation	  49,013	2,309,036	WMX Technologies	1,843,956	2,130,513	Woolworth Corp Hldg	2,061,449	1,341,636	WPL Holdings, Inc.	 353,391	 419,875	WRigley (Wm) Jr Co	 555,687	 626,324	Wstrn Co N Amer 	 510,935	 784,139	Xerox Corp 	1,825,533	1,451,373	YPF Sociedad An-ADR	1,789,266	1,312,429	Zapata Corp 	 524,348	 517,400	#Zeneca Group Plc-ADR	  75,121	2,142,881	Zenith Electronics	5,112,615	4,985,785	Zweig Fund,inc. 	 450,479	 389,902	American	 	 	ALC Communications	1,113,446	1,190,422	#Allou Health & Beaut	  1,500	 465,514	Alpine Group The	 626,708	 585,346	#*Amdahl Corp 	1,836,985	 961,754	Atari Corp 	4,594,284	4,788,687	#Audiovox Corp 	 472,470	 186,176	Audre Recognition	 628,026	 640,426	 *Aurora Electronics	 505,863	 492,375	 *BAT Industries Plc	 298,893	 506,770	 *Belmac Corp 	 673,738	 603,438	Beta Well Service	1,678,257	1,723,164	 *Bowmar Instrum Corp	 659,893	 648,693	Canadian Occidental	1,480,993	1,111,339	Century Communicat	 844,699	 749,962	 *Chambers Devel Cla	 515,804	 527,523	+Cheyenne Software	4,243,065	2,976,949	#Chiles offshore Corp	  52,929	 301,803	Columbia Lab 	 407,400	 405,100	Conversion Ind 	1,076,287	1,183,200	CST Entertainment	 777,095	 768,700	Davstar Ind Ltd 	1,425,100	1,414,011	 *Echo Bay Mines Ltd	3,490,660	3,889,229	 *Elan Corp Ads 	5,747,466	6,293,392	 *Energy Service 	3,996,284	2,705,700	Enzo Biochem 	 965,453	1,011,656	 *Epitope Inc 	2,055,312	1,923,853	Exploration Co La	4,304,603	2,964,882	#*Gaylord Container	 507,256	 241,400	 *Greyhound Lines Inc	1,111,654	1,180,003	 *Hasbro Inc 	3,163,929	3,156,714	 *Health Professionals	 631,625	 674,128	Hondo Oil And Gas	1,007,011	1,007,830	Howtek Inc 	 674,641	 679,341	#Identix Inc 	 352,000	 163,800	IGI Inc 	 369,287	 383,387	 *Interdigital Comm	1,859,492	2,241,360	Intermagnetics Gen	1,348,919	1,130,381	 *Ivax Corp 	3,584,019	3,437,625	 *Jan Bell Marketing	3,405,825	3,112,250	 *Kelly Oil&Gas Partne	 531,918	 472,781	Littlefield Adams &C	 497,264	 550,293	LSB Industries Inc	 595,903	 599,503	 *Medco Research 	 660,601	 654,291	 *New York Times Co	2,759,643	2,480,384	NTN Communications	 379,520	 407,112	 *NVR Inc	 642,008	 532,965	Olsten Corp 	1,609,036	1,585,628	 *Organogenesis 	 747,539	 685,282	Philippine Long Dist	 573,244	 552,353	 *Ply-Gem Ind Inc 	 343,475	 742,400	 *Porta Systems Corp	 556,049	 523,575	Quality Products Inc	 805,906	 541,957	Response Tech 	 402,000	 388,000	RHI Entertainment In	 727,500	 556,200	Roadmaster Ind 	1,722,393	1,877,468	Standard&Poor Dep	2,244,911	1,485,310	Struthers Indus Inc	 267,900	 513,033	Sulcus Computer Corp	1,235,340	1,405,677	 *Thermo Instrument	1,377,952	1,403,972	TOP Source Technolog	1,261,927	1,067,176	Trans World Air 	 837,590	 760,319	 *Turner Broad Sys Clb	5,035,670	4,930,859	 *US Bioscience Inc	 465,304	 432,904	US Cellular 	 474,740	 487,040	USF & G Pacholder	 198,820	 389,850	 *Viacom Inc 	 945,131	 952,706	 *Viacom Inc Clb 	3,429,240	2,754,308	Wilshire Tech Inc	 505,668	 524,555	Wilshire Tech Inc	 524,555	 604,850	Xytronyx Corp 	 142,700	 428,322	
 
Short Sales Tables Explained
 These tables show issues with a short interest position in the current month of at least 350,000 shares or a change up or down from the previous month of at least 189,976 shares.
 Cover ratio represents the number of days, at average volume level, that it would take to purchase the number of shares sold short.
 A -- American Stock Exchange.
 N -- New York Stock Exchange.
 N.L. -- Not listed.
 + -- Stock split.
 * (American Stock Exchange only.) May have been affected by arbitrage transactions resulting from any one or more of the following: proposed or pending acquisitions; convertible securities of the same company; rights offerings; stock splits or distributions; tenders; other special situations.
 Short interest may also be affected by options positions.
 # Indicates a change of 75 percent or more from the previous month.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A table in Business Day on Friday listing the American Stock Exchange's uncovered short sales for the month ended April 15, compared with those for the month ended March 15, included erroneous figures for Wilshire Technologies Inc. and Xytronyx Inc. The short interest in Wilshire's stock was 505,668 shares in April, down from 524,555 shares in March. The short interest in Xytronyx's stock was 132,872 shares, down from 142,700.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: USY (LSE) (60%); UIS (SWX) (60%); UIS (NYSE) (60%); HD (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (83%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (60%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HANSON LTD (83%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (66%); UNISYS CORP (60%); HOME DEPOT INC (60%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING; CREDIT STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BONDS (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994



526 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1916 words

HEADLINE: THE WHITEWATER AFFAIR: NEWS ANALYSIS;
'Sorry' as a Political Weapon in the TV Age

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton said she was influenced to hold her first formal news conference as First Lady when she read that Eleanor Roosevelt had held more than 340 news conferences during her White House years.
"Now, Mrs. Roosevelt only invited women reporters," Mrs. Clinton said today, smiling. "I don't think I could get away with that." 
 The comparison was telling. Mrs. Roosevelt liked to remind reporters, as she gave them scoops on how often she got her hair done and when the White House would resume serving wine after Prohibition, "You don't elect the woman nor the family when you elect a man President."
Half a century later, sitting in a soft pink sweater before bouquets of matching spring flowers, Mrs. Clinton disproved that notion once and for all as she agreed to talk at length about her central role in the complicated web of her family's personal finances. With her image teetering in recent weeks between Saint Hillary and go-go profiteer, Mrs. Clinton tried to take back control of her reputation, so that she could move ahead on health care this summer without being dogged by her Arkansas past.
In an exceptionally polished and calibrated performance, in a town where politicians never like to say they're sorry, she showed the value of contrition as a political weapon in the television age.
She tried to banish the public doubts caused by White House actions that have seemed suspicious, inconsistent and protective by pleading that any mistakes that had occurred were caused by ineptitude and inexperience.
She said she had "rezoned" herself to get used to less privacy and to abide by the capital's tribal ways.
"This is really a result of our inexperience in Washington," she said. "I really did not fully understand everything that I wish now I had known."
With a calm, unwavering gaze, she apologized over and over for whatever customs of the city she and her husband might have violated; but she did not admit any mistakes in her financial and ethical behavior in Arkansas nor confess to any doubts about the propriety of her actions or those of her husband.
 
'Zone of Privacy'
 The First Lady had fought this moment for months, angry about what she felt were encroachments on her "zone of privacy," backed by former advisers like Bernard W. Nussbaum, a scorched-earth Manhattan litigator who had agreed that the less she revealed, the better. She resisted the appointment of a special prosecutor, and she spurned calls to hold a full-scale news conference to answer lingering Whitewater questions.
But with a new White House counsel, Lloyd N. Cutler, in place, and with the Whitewater story ebbing in the scary shadow of Bosnia and the lazy shade of spring, Mrs. Clinton suddenly succumbed, surprising even some White House officials with her timing.
As several of Bill Clinton's advisers stood in the back of the room watching Mrs. Clinton, it was clear that a lot of thought had gone into how today's performance would be staged.
Hard right angles were avoided. Even her chair was set at an oblique angle, cater-corner to the angle of the chair in which Lincoln, in the darkly gleaming oil portrait above her, sat contemplatively.
Everything was soft and warm, the sweater with the long, black knit skirt and the black high heels; the beige-and-gold decor of the State Dining Room, which is often used for private dinners; the profusion of ferns in the fireplace behind the First Lady, and the brass vases full of pink and white flowers.
Fearing any impression that she was the co-President, Mrs. Clinton avoided the heavy Presidential lectern and seal and chose instead to sit in a straight-backed chair on a small platform, her legs crossed at the knee and her hands clasped in her lap. Unlike her husband, who has a tendency to bristle when challenged on Whitewater, she was so cool that she never even needed to take a sip of the water placed on a small table at her side.
There were, inevitably, comparisons to the news conference in 1984 in which Geraldine A. Ferraro, then the Democratic candidate for Vice President, defended her family finances at length. But in Ms. Ferraro's case, she was forced to justify and explain her husband's financial dealings to protect her own candidacy; today, Mrs. Clinton had to justify her own financial dealings to protect her husband's Presidency.
She appeared comfortable, as if she were sitting at her kitchen table chatting over tea and cookies, an impression heightened as she often nodded empathetically and called the reporters by their first names, an effective technique except for the moment when she called Newsday's Susan Page "Ann."
The sense of uncertain protocol was illustrated when no one seemed to know how to begin the session. Mrs. Clinton waited for Helen Thomas, the longtime reporter for United Press International who traditionally starts Presidential news conferences, to ask her the first question. But Ms. Thomas seemed dubious about whether the same custom would apply in a terra that was incognita for everyone in the room.
 
Waiting for the First Question
 "Are we ready?" Mrs. Clinton asked twice, first looking expectantly toward Ms. Thomas, finally prompting her. Ms. Thomas asked Mrs. Clinton about reports that money from the Whitewater Development Company might have gone to her husband's campaign for Governor.
Mrs. Clinton's news conference had been under discussion at the White House for the last couple of weeks, because advisers said that they knew, as one put it, that "only by doing this can you move on and get away from the questions that are dogging you."
She did not feel ready to do it until today, one White House adviser said, because she wanted to be on top of the material when she met the press.
As an ebullient Mr. Cutler said after the news conference: "Of course she prepared. She's a lawyer. She knows her brief."
But the performance today was more than just an accommodation to "a press corps in full throat," as one Presidential aide characterized it. It was also clearly a dress rehearsal -- and a pre-emptive public relations strike -- should she have to appear before a Congressional committee on Whitewater and for her inevitable encounter with Robert B. Fiske Jr.'s investigators. Mr. Fiske, the independent counsel, has vowed to take the Clintons' testimony under oath about Whitewater.
White House advisers also expect that hearings will be held this summer, but it is difficult at this point to imagine senators or members of Congress, who greeted her first testimony on Capitol Hill on health care with gushing praise, questioning Mrs. Clinton any more aggressively than she was today.
At one point, as she tried to decide which of the scores of reporters to call on, Mrs. Clinton laughed and proclaimed, 'How does my husband ever make these choices? These are hard choices." Yet, it was also clear that Mrs. Clinton was wearing down the press when, after less than an hour, some reporters changed the subject to the more benign topic of health care.
Despite a demeanor that suggested infinite patience and openness, she never fully resolved the central question of Whitewater and the commodities trades: Whether powerful friends had given the Clintons favorable treatment and had opened financial doors not accessible to ordinary Arkansans.
"I wasn't a cattle expert," she said at one point. "I trusted Jim Blair and it worked out for me."
At other times, she insisted that neither Mr. Blair, her financial adviser and close friend who works for Tyson Foods, nor James B. McDougal, her Whitewater partner, had done anything improper for her and her husband. Mrs. Clinton said she saw no problem ethically with, in essence, being so financially dependent on friends who also did business with the state government that her husband ran.
 
No Red Flags
 Mrs. Clinton said, in particular, that her business relationship with Mr. Blair had raised no flags. "And the reason it didn't is that he and his wife are among our very best friends," she said. "My husband performed their marriage ceremony. I was the best person at the wedding. We are very close friends."
Nor did she ever really answer the question of why the Clintons' partners, the McDougals, wound up bearing so much more of the burden of the losses in Whitewater than the Clintons did.
And she was never able to satisfactorily explain why the White House has had so many conflicting stories on so many important issues, and why their explanations have changed so many times in the past few weeks.
Although Mrs. Clinton seemed to take care not to contradict the public record of White House statements on Whitewater, there were a few small inconsistencies in her comments today.
For example, she said that the White House had not revealed that she only invested $1,000 in the commodities account because they had been searching for old check stubs. But the White House had those records more than a week before the figure was released; an official had showed them to a reporter but had refused to allow him to copy them or take notes.
Trying to explain why the White House first tried to distance itself from Mr. Blair's involvement and then, days later, conceded that he had placed most of the trades for Mrs. Clinton, she said: "You know, I've been traveling and I'm more committed to health care than anything else I do. I probably did not spend enough time, get as precise. Different people heard different things that I said, or by the time it got passed to the third or fourth person, or one member of the press would call somebody in the White House but somebody else would call another person, so I think that the confusion is our responsibility. We did not give you a focused place to come, and we did not spend the time necessary. There's not really a contradiction in what you said and what I said, but I can understand how somebody could assume that."
Mrs. Clinton was also not successful in integrating her competing images. She sounded more like the Goldwater Girl she once was than the crusading '60s Democrat she became when she made this observation:
"I was raised by a father who had me reading the stock tables when I was a little girl, and I started doing that with my daughter when she was a little girl," she said. "I mean, I don't think you'll ever find anything that my husband or I said that in any way condemns the importance of making good investments and saving, or that in any way undermines what is the heart and soul of the American economy, which is risk taking and investing in the future."
Last May, Mrs. Clinton had a tune that sounded different as she complained about the greedy '80s: "The 1980's were about acquiring -- acquiring wealth, power, privilege." And her husband said this in his speech announcing his intention to run for President: "The 1980's ushered in a Gilded Age of greed and selfishness, of irresponsibility and excess and of neglect."
And, of course, commodities trading is not the safest or most common way to save and invest for your family. More traditional avenues of investing in the future would have been bonds, treasury securities and certificates of deposit, or even blue chip stocks. Commodities trading is a very high-risk speculation in which large sums are lost as often as large sums are made.
Mrs. Clinton, for instance, made more than $5,300 the very first day she was in the commodities market on her $1,000 stake, and she could just have easily as lost $5,300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; FINANCES, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS POLITICS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ETHICS (70%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ZONING (64%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BLAIR, JAMES B; MCDOUGAL, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



527 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
President Clinton nominated two economists to the Federal Reserve Board whose philosophies suggest that they may seek to temper the pace at which the central bank raises interest rates to fight inflation. The nominations allow the President to put his stamp on an institution run entirely by Republican appointees. [Page 39.] 
The Administration is taking the first steps to restrict imports of Canadian wheat and barley into the United States, a move that intensified a dispute over wheat. [39.]
 
Markets
Kidder, Peabody discharged another trader for concealing losses, in a sign that broader problems were emerging on the securities firm's trading desks. [39.]
Stocks closed essentially unchanged, as the bond and stock markets tracked each other within a narrow range after the nominations of two economists to the Fed. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.86 points, to 3,648.68. [40.]
Prices of Treasury securities slipped after a three-day rally. The 30-year bond was down 4/32 , to 888/32 , to yield 7.22 percent, up slightly from Thursday, but down 6 basis points for the week. [48.]
Crude oil prices jumped to a five-month high as traders said an expected rebound in the world economy could draw down supplies while production stagnates. [47.]
The dollar was steady against leading currencies as traders waited to see whether world economic leaders meeting on Sunday would try to curb the recent rise of the Japanese yen. [47.]
 
International
Brazil's auto industry is undergoing a $12 billion modernization intended to put Brazilian-made cars on streets around the world by the end of the decade. Last year, Brazil produced a record 1.4 million cars, leapfrogging over Italy and Mexico to become the world's 10th-largest car maker. [39.]
 
Companies
About 300 airlines may get their flight schedules bumped from Apollo, the airline industry's computer reservations system, if they do not become full participants in the network. [38.]
Exxon and Mobil reported stable earnings for the first quarter in the face of falling crude oil prices. Increased profits for refined products made up for much of the falloff in income from exploration and production. [41.]
Liz Claiborne hired Paul R. Charron, executive vice president of the VF Corporation, to be its chief operating officer and vice chairman, potentially resolving the issue of corporate succession that has bedeviled the apparel company. [41.]
Shares of Unisys plunged after the computer company said its first-quarter revenues had dropped nearly 12 percent, well below analysts' expectations. [41.]
Duracell and Intel announced standards for a battery with a chip that tells portable computers, cellular phones, camcorders and similar devices exactly how much charge they have left. [41.]
Prudential Securities settled charges of securities law violations with California, which had been the lone holdout to the firm's broad settlement of fraud charges with regulators. [51.]

Your Money
Japanese stock prices have gained despite the country's political instability, a sour economy and an overvalued currency. [37.]
Investors in some favorite mutual funds have learned a hard lesson: There are not always ready buyers for the funds' holdings, especially when times get tough. [37.]
Mortgage life insurance policies may not be the bargains they appear to be. Other types of insurance can usually achieve the same result at far less cost, consumer groups say. [37.].
Easy-to-use software offers expert help to get a handle on the vast number of variables that affect retirement plans. [38.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VFC (NYSE) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VF CORP (81%); INTEL CORP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (71%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); BATTERY MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); AIRLINES (67%); SUCCESSION PLANS (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); COMPANY REVENUES (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); JAPANESE YEN (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



528 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Dow Edges Down 3.86; Nasdaq Index Rises 3.82

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market closed essentially unchanged in normal trading yesterday, as both the bond and stock markets tracked each other within a narrow range following President Clinton's nominations of two economists for the Federal Reserve Board.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.86 points, to 3,648.68, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 1.10 points, to 447.63. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index continued its recent rise, gaining 3.82 points, to 722.56. 
 For the week, the Dow fell nearly 13 points.
A variety of large stocks were hurt slightly. Among them were local-telephone stocks like GTE and Southwestern Bell, electric utilities like Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison, retail chains like Wal-Mart and Sears, Roebuck, as well as money-center banks like BankAmerica and J. P. Morgan.
 
Technology Issues Gain
 But many technology stocks gained, including Novell and Lotus Development. The Nasdaq was led by Amgen, a biopharmaceuticals stock that rose 4 3/4, to 42, after its first-quarter earnings, announced Thursday, exceeded analysts' estimates.
When President Clinton nominated Alan S. Blinder and Janet L. Yellen to the Fed yesterday, the news was out shortly before 11 A.M. Bond traders bid up the 30-year Treasury bonds, and stock traders bid up the Dow and the S.& P. 500 shortly afterward.
But the quick retreat from the small gains on the stock and bond markets was a measure of how little traders know about Mr. Blinder, an economist from Princeton University who is on the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and Ms. Yellen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley.
"There were some technical reasons for the fall of bonds," said Frederic T. Leiner, fixed-income market strategist for Continental Bank in Chicago, "but mainly people were talking about Blinder and Yellen and whether they would be hawkish on inflation." Rising inflation hurts the value of stocks and bonds.
 
Nominees' Views Unknown
 There seemed to be little in the public records of the nominees about their stances on, for example, the Fed's three interest-rate increases in less than three months. And a rumor that Mr. Blinder favored eliminating the 30-year Treasury bond -- something on which he would have no say at the Fed -- swept the bond markets and was interpreted somehow as showing he was dovish on inflation.
Dennis Jarrett, chief market analyst for Kidder, Peabody, compared the markets' uncertainty to the legal community's uncertainty about a Supreme Court nominee. Like a Justice, "it almost doesn't matter what Fed nominees have said because once they are behind closed doors, they could turn around 180 degrees," he said. "It's why stock traders went back to sitting on their hands today, waiting for Monday."
The volume on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday totaled nearly 296 million shares, a bit below the year's average of 304 million shares, and far below the previous three sessions.
 
Gainers Outnumber Losers
 The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.23 point, to 247.95. Advancing stocks outnumbered declining issues by 1,282 to 930. The American exchange's market value index rose 2.18 points, to 433.31.
Of the Dow's 30 component stocks, 14 fell, led by Sears, which dropped 1 3/4, to 46 1/2, and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, which fell 1 1/8, to 47 3/8, on no discernible news.
Of the 500 stocks in the S.& P. index, 235 stocks fell. GTE fell 1 1/8, to 31 7/8, after its share price rose earlier in the week when it reported higher-than-expected first-quarter earnings. Wal-Mart fell 1/4, to 25 3/8, on no discernible news.
The most active stock yesterday was Informix, a data base software company, with 9.8 million shares traded. Its share price dropped 29/16 , to 169/16 , after the company reported on Thursday that its first-quarter profits were lower than expected.
The second-most-active stock, with 6.8 million shares traded, was Intel, whose shares had recovered somewhat after falling sharply during April on a poor competitive outlook. Intel rose 1/8, to 60 3/8.
In Tokyo, stocks were higher yesterday. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed up 165.03 points, or about eight-tenths of 1 percent, at 19,964.39. On Thursday, the Nikkei fell 82.82 points.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); PCG (SWX) (56%); PCG (NYSE) (56%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (56%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (56%); PG&E CORP (56%); AMGEN INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); RETAILERS (54%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



529 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: 2 Economists Nominated to Fed

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
President Clinton nominated two economists to the Federal Reserve Board today whose philosophies suggest that they may seek to temper the pace at which the nation's central bank raises interest rates to fight inflation.
The nominations of Alan S. Blinder, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers on leave from Princeton University, and Janet L. Yellen, an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley, allow the President to start putting his stamp on an institution now run entirely by Republican appointees. Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen have reputations as mainstream economists who may put a bit more emphasis than their predecessors on increasing short-term economic growth rather than fighting inflation. 
 If confirmed by the Senate, as appears likely, Mr. Blinder, who is 48, would become vice chairman of the seven-member Federal Reserve Board. Ms. Yellen, 47, would become a governor.
Mr. Blinder would replace David W. Mullins Jr., who recently resigned to work at a money management firm and had a reputation as a moderate on inflation.
Ms. Yellen would replace Wayne D. Angell, who retired from the board in February and was the Fed's most outspoken advocate in recent months of higher interest rates; he has since joined Bear, Stearns & Company.
Mr. Blinder has played down concerns that strong economic growth now might cause inflation to rise significantly from its current rate of about 3 percent. "It is not something that is going to get anyone excited if, in the next several years, it edges up to 3.5 percent," he said last month.
By contrast, other Fed officials have been talking in terms of holding inflation steady or even trying to eliminate it entirely. Edward W. Kelley Jr., a Fed governor, said in an interview on April 4 that zero inflation "is our long-term goal."
Ms. Yellen has written mainly about employment issues, and not much is known of her views on the trade-offs between inflation and short-term economic growth. Jagdish Bhagwati, a Columbia University economics professor and an acquaintance of both nominees, predicted that "they'll provide more of a pro-inflation bias."
But Lyle E. Gramley, a former Fed governor who was appointed by President Jimmy Carter, said such evaluations might be overstated. "I would classify both of them as traditional mainstream Democratic economists," said Mr. Gramley, who knows both nominees. "That scares some people because they think that all traditional mainstream Democratic economists are inflationists, but I don't believe that."
Mr. Gramley said that most economists, probably including Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen, now agree that while rising inflation might very briefly help economic growth and reduce unemployment, inflation harms growth and employment in the long run and should be kept under tight control.
Frederick H. Schultz, a former vice chairman of the Fed appointed by President Carter, said the Fed resembled the Supreme Court in that predicting the votes of either body's members based on their previous writings was extremely difficult.
The initial influence of Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen on interest rates, if they choose to try to slow or reverse the recent rapid pace of increases, may be limited because they will almost certainly be outnumbered. Although they will hold two of the seven seats on the Fed board of governors, Fed policy is determined by the Federal Open Market Committee, which consists of the governors, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and, on a rotating basis, the presidents of four of the 11 other regional Fed banks.
Top Fed officials say there has been considerable backing within the central bank for the steps it has taken since early February to raise short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point. Broad support also exists for one or more additional increases this year.
Mr. Blinder graduated from Princeton University in 1967 and earned a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1971. He taught at Princeton from 1971 until becoming a member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers last year. Mr. Blinder, who is married and has two sons, is the author or co-author of 10 books and wrote monthly columns for Business Week magazine from 1985 to 1992.
Mr. Blinder is scheduled to serve the balance of Mr. Mullins's term, which expires on Jan. 31, 1996. In theory, he would then be in a position to replace Alan Greenspan as the chairman of the Fed, because Mr. Greenspan's second four-year term as chairman will expire a month later. But in practice, no vice chairman of the Fed has ever gone on to become chairman.
Mr. Blinder chose to be nominated for a term expiring in early 1996 instead of taking the 14-year appointment that went to Ms. Yellen. Mr. Blinder said in an interview this evening that he chose the short term because his leave from Princeton will expire at the end of January 1996 and because it would have been hard for the President to find a talented economist to serve as a governor without the vice chairman title for such a short period. Mr. Blinder also said at a White House news conference today that no one had spoken to him about whether he might succeed to the chairmanship.
 
Service at Universities
 Ms. Yellen graduated with a degree in economics from Brown University in 1967, and earned a Ph.D. in economics from Yale University in 1971. She was an assistant professor of economics at Harvard University for five years, before serving briefly as a lecturer at the London School of Economics and an economist with the Federal Reserve Board. She has taught at the University of California at Berkeley since 1980, and is married to George Akerlof, also an economist there; they have one son.
Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen are both friends of Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and another former economics professor at Berkeley. Ms. Tyson, Robert E. Rubin, the chairman of the National Economic Council, and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen were the members of a special panel that chose both candidates.
Mr. Blinder won the support of all three of them weeks ago. Ms. Yellen assured her nomination when she met Mr. Bentsen for the first time last Saturday and convinced him that she was well qualified, said a senior Administration official who insisted on anonymity.
President Clinton technically announced today his intention to nominate Ms. Yellen, because the actual nominating papers will not be completed until the Federal Bureau of Investigation has completed a routine check on her background. But Mr. Rubin said that Ms. Yellen had already been asked many questions by Administration officials and did not appear to pose any problems.
The Administration took pains today to say that it was not trying to fill the Fed with friendly economists who would hold down interest rates when President Clinton is up for re-election in 1996. Mr. Bentsen said at the news conference today that neither candidate had been asked whether they approved of the recent interest rate increases or would seek further increases.
Yet some White House officials privately express irritation and concerns about possible damage to the economy if interest rates increase further, particularly if the Fed raises short-term rates above 4 percent. Ms. Tyson wrote a strongly worded article for the Op-Ed page of The New York Times a week ago in which she argued that inflation was not an immediate risk.
Senior Fed officials agree that they see no imminent signs of inflation, but worry that the economy is approaching its maximum level of output too quickly. Once that maximum level is reached, which is hard to measure, growth will tend to slow to the rate of expansion of the nation's total capacity to produce goods and services.
Mr. Blinder said this evening that the nation's underlying capacity to produce goods appeared to be growing about 2.5 percent a year. He also estimated that the economy could not grow more than another 0.75 to 1.5 percentage points above this capacity rate before reaching maximum capacity.
As a result, Mr. Blinder estimated that the economy would grow by no more than nine percentage points altogether in 1994, 1995 and 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHO HAS LEFT: Wayne D. Angell, 66
Left Fed in February
Strongly favored raising interest rates this year to slow down the economy and control inflation.
 
David W. Mullins Jr., 46
Left Fed in February
Probably would have favored latest rate increases, but with more doubts than Angell. Concerned about weaknesses in the economy.
 
WHO IS JOINING
 
Alan Blinder, 48
Term expires 1996
Replaces Mullins. Likely to opppose more rate increases as damaging to the economy. Does not see inflation as a problem.
 
Janet L. Yellen, 47
Term expires 2009
Replaces Angell. Views on interest rates and inflation unknown, but likely to oppose raising rates much beyond present level.
 
WHO STAYS ON
 
Alan Greenspan, 68
Term as chairman expires 1996
Seems to strongly favor more rate increases. Sees inflation as bigger danger than economic slowdown. Until recent months, resisted rate increases.
 
Edward W. Kelley Jr., 62
Term expires 2004
Votes with Greenspan on interest rate policy. Seems to favor further rate increases to prevent a rising inflation rate.
 
John P. LaWare, 66
Term expires 2002
Like Kelley, votes with Greenspan on interest rate policy. And like them, reassures the bond market that Fed will control inflation.
 
Lawrence B. Lindsey, 39
Term expires 2000
Opposed rate increases in the past. Seems to favor them now to keep annual inflation rate from rising above 3 percent.
 
Susan M. Phillips, 49
Term expires 1998
Not an activist on interest rate policy. Like Lindsey, expresses concern about consumer debt burden. Votes with majority, for higher rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (68%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLINDER, ALAN S; YELLEN, JANET L; ANGELL, WAYNE D; MULLINS, DAVID W JR; BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



530 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: THE 37th PRESIDENT: REACTION;
In Death as in Life, Nixon Provokes Strong Passions

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
In life, Richard Nixon was loved or hated with a special ardor by those who knew him best and dealt directly with him on political matters and matters of state.
His death did not cool that ardor. 
 His admirers and defenders stood steadfastly by him in death, as in life, glossing over Watergate, the most prominent entry on his career ledger. They focused, instead, on the second most prominent entry, his handling of foreign affairs, especially the diplomatic opening to China.
Mr. Nixon's critics and detractors remained steadfast, too. Their language was respectful in the hour of trial for the Nixon family, but their message was as disapprovingly blunt and as censorious as ever.
Typically, for one Nixon defender, former Secretary of State William P. Rogers, Mr. Nixon departed as "a great world leader."
"His accomplishments," said Mr. Rogers, now a New York lawyer, "were overshadowed by another event that was deemed more newsworthy at the time."
 
'He Never Gave In'
 But he continued: "I think history will overcome that. In fact, I don't know of any other mortal who went through what Richard Nixon went through and by the end of his life had recovered as much as he had. He never gave in."
No such recovery occurred in the view of Alger Hiss, the former State Department official who was a target of one of Mr. Nixon's intense searches for Communist subversives hidden in American Government.
"He left many deeds uncorrected and unatoned for," Mr. Hiss, now retired, said in a brief statement issued from his home in New York.
"I naturally feel sympathy for the members of Mr. Nixon's family," Mr. Hiss added.
President Clinton, who after taking office periodically conferred with Mr. Nixon on matters of state, said tonight in reporting his death to the American people that "he experienced his fair share of adversity and controversy." But that point made, Mr. Clinton delivered a warm appraisal of Mr. Nixon's handling of foreign affairs.
"I was deeply grateful for his wise counsel on so many occasions on many issues over the last year," the President said, adding "his country owes him a debt of gratitude," voicing something that would have been heresy for a Democratic leader in earlier years. "He was a statesman who sought to build a lasting structure of peace."
Mr. Clinton added: "His resilience and his diligent desire to give something back to this country and to the world provide a lesson for all of us about maintaining our faith in the future." The President said that as recently as a month ago, "he was still in touch with me about the great issues of the day."
Former President Ronald Reagan praised Mr. Nixon without qualification, calling him "a great champion of democratic ideals who dedicated his life to the cause of world peace, for millions truly one of the finest statesmen this world has ever seen."
Although down through the years the simple mention of Mr. Nixon's name was usually enough to elicit a pointed comment and judgment from those who knew him best, a few prominent figures from the Nixon years chose to remain silent upon the occasion of his death. And a few others acknowledged his passing with notable curtness.
One was Spiro T. Agnew, never at a loss for words while serving as Mr. Nixon's Vice President and oratorical point man, until he was driven from office by an influence-peddling scandal that preceded the Watergate scandals.
"I have no comment," Mr. Agnew said, speaking by telephone from his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He would not elaborate, but a White House official in the Nixon-Agnew days said that Mr. Agnew was bitter because he felt that the Justice Department in the Nixon Administration had been unduly severe with him and that he had been treated too harshly.
Archibald Cox, the special prosecutor in the Watergate case whom Mr. Nixon had dismissed, was only slightly more forthcoming.
"I don't think the occasion of his death merits getting back into any of that," he said from his office at Harvard University, where he is now a professor of law.
Former Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, one of the most revered elders of the Republican Party, was equally succinct, calling for prayers for Mr. Nixon in a two-sentence statement and then adding, "He is, without a doubt, the most knowledgeable President we've had in foreign policy."
Likewise, former Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, a Nixon appointee who played a major role in swinging the Court to the right, opined in a two-sentence statement that Mr. Nixon should be remembered for achievements in foreign policy and for "leading the opposition to Communism when Communism had achieved some popularity in this country."
Elliot L. Richardson, the Attorney General who resigned rather than dismiss Mr. Cox at Mr. Nixon's behest, reflected at length on his old boss, finding both good and bad but leaving no doubt that Watergate still rankled.
Mr. Richardson saw Mr. Nixon as "a figure not unlike the flawed hero of a Greek tragedy," a man who "had it within his grasp to be a great President" and who, in fact, achieved great domestic and foreign victories. Then, Mr. Richardson added, the "flaw" came into play and Watergate resulted.
"Richard Nixon's great weakness," Mr. Richardson said, "was the approach to life that came out of his battle to achieve station, influence, power -- all the things he felt he had not been accorded as a youth. He had an insecurity -- an insecurity that eventually propelled him to the Presidency via his aggression, suspicion, vindictiveness, retaliation and so forth. He viewed every opponent as an enemy and he never understood when he had won."
Mr. Richardson said that Mr. Nixon's "considerable accomplishments" in foreign and domestic affairs should never be denigrated.
"I certainly never do," he added. "But I have never been able to feel the same way about him since I resigned. For a time I actually had bad dreams about ever seeing him again. I never did, except once, years later at some offical function or the like. We exchanged pleasantries for a moment and then I tried to tell him that for all our differences I had never said bad things about his genuine accomplishments. He said he didn't care what I ever said about him."
George McGovern, the South Dakota Senator soundly defeated by Mr. Nixon in the 1972 Presidential election, also saw Mr. Nixon as a man with a fatal flaw.
Mr. McGovern, now president of the Middle East Policy Council, a study group, gave the former President high marks for his handling of Soviet and Chinese issues and spoke of finding common ideological ground with him on some domestic issues, such as agriculture and nutritional aid.
"The truth is that when I was in the Senate I often looked upon him as an ally on some of these issues," Mr. McGovern said. "But then there was always that one dark street in him, that McCarthyesque thing. That was his worst character flaw and it manifested itself -- the conspiritorial stuff -- all the way to Watergate. That office break-in? Heck, looking back on it, we Democrats didn't have anything going at that point that was worth keeping secret."
To Alexander M. Haig Jr., who was chief of the White House staff when Mr. Nixon resigned, Mr. Nixon was "the most competent and capable President in foreign policy in the post-World War II era and a President who was well ahead of his legislature on such important domestic matters as health care, the environment and the economy."
And what of Watergate?
"He violated the law," replied Mr. Haig, now a Washington consultant. "But he made his peace with that the day he resigned and left the White House. And then he came back from setbacks that were unprecedented. His influence in foreign affairs at the time of his death was still such that every President and world leader sought him out. He wrote more extensively than any other former President. He was a great man and he will be a role model for generations to come in the way he bounced back from adversity. Time will tell about Richard Nixon."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NIXON ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); DEATHS ; WATERGATE AFFAIR DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; AGNEW, SPIRO T; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCGOVERN, GEORGE S; HAIG, ALEXANDER M JR RICHARD NIXON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



531 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Decline On Technical Factors

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities slipped yesterday, following a three-day rally. Traders said that with the absence of new economic news to respond to, bond trading was, for the most part, technically driven.
The naming of Alan S. Blinder and Janet L. Yellen as President Clinton's first two appointments to the Federal Reserve Board had no immediate impact on bond prices since news had been leaked in advance. 
 If market participants are worried about whether the two appointees will be as tough on inflation as their predecessors, David W. Mullins Jr. and Wayne D. Angell, they are guarded about it.
 
 
'Risk in Slowing Down'
 Some fear that Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen are doves and are concerned that they may slow down the Fed's current effort to fight inflation. "The risk in slowing down the process of tightening credit is that it creates a dangerous atmosphere of anticipation which prompts people into spending more in order to get a jump on rising interest rates," Peter J. Canelo, chief investment strategist at NatWest Securities, said.
Donald Fine, the chief market analyst at Chase Securities, believes that the Fed would not change policy at this stage of the interest rate cycle. With reference to Mr. Blinder, Mr. Fine said: "His credentials as an economist are impeccable. I'm sure his intelligence would lead to the correct conclusions which would not be any different than those of the current memebers."
Mr. Fine said the difference in policy between hawks and doves would probably be visible if the economy was in a contraction phase, rather than an expansion.
Then there are those in the market who are not worried about the two nominees, and find it puzzling why anyone would be. "We don't know much about either of their views on monetary policy," Hugh A. Johnson, chief investment strategist for First Albany Corporation, said. "If it's true they take a balanced approach to policy, its nothing new. I think they're not likely to have any influence on policy in the near future."
 
 
Volatile Session
 Trading yesterday was volatile in a session that saw the expiration of bond options as traders and dealers began looking ahead to next week's schedule of new Treasury bills and notes.
By late in the day, the 30-year bond was down 4/32 of a point, to 888/32 , as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, inched up to 7.22 percent from 7.21 percent Thursday. However the yield was down 6 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, for the week.
The Government said yesterday that it would sell $16.5 billion of new one-year bills on Thursday. The size of the sale was unchanged from the previous auction.
Next week the market will also be busy with the regular weekly bill auction on Monday, two- and five-year note auctions Tuesday and Wednesday and the first report on how strong the economy was in the first quarter on Thursday.
In when-issued trading ahead of next week's auction, the new two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.66 percent and the five-year issue at 6.55 percent. The current one-year bill rate is 4.64 percent.

 
 
Move by Trump
 Elsewhere in the corporate debt market, the Trump Taj Mahal Finance Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to raise $125 million through the sale of discount notes and warrants to purchase such securities.
A newly created finance unit, the Trump Taj Finance Company, plans to package the notes into units. Each unit would consist of $5,000 principal amount of senior secured discount notes and a warrant to purchase $1,000 principal amount of the discount notes.
Donald J. Trump plans to use the proceeds from the unit sales in part to acquire a 100 percent equity interest in a holding company for the partnership that owns and operates the Trump Taj Mahal Casino, the largest casino and hotel in Atlantic City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GLEACHER & CO INC (64%); PRICES OF TREASURY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



532 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Olympians Dedicate Rink Site

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SIMSBURY, Conn., April 22

 BODY:
Oksana Baiul and Viktor Petrenko, the Olympic skating champions from Ukraine, seemed surprised by the size of the crowd gathered for the groundbreaking of this town's Olympic-size skating center. More than 1,200 people gathered at the rink site for a glimpse of the skating stars, who are scheduled to move here this fall and train at the new rink.
The $5 million skating center is being built 4 miles north of the Simsbury town center off Route 10, 12 miles northwest of Hartford, in a clearing behind two weathered tobacco barns. 
 Proposals for an Olympic rink have been around for years, first centered on nearby Farmington and most recently on Hartford. It settled in Simsbury when Stephen Fish, a Simsbury developer, formed World Skate Inc. and the Culbro Corporation, a local company, donated the land. Fleet Bank is financing the venture, with a state loan guarantee.
 
Throngs of Fans
 Making her way through throngs of fans, Ms. Baiul, the 1994 Olympic gold medalist in figure skating, was all smiles, looking more poised than her 16 years. Mr. Petrenko, the 1992 gold medalist, was stern faced and nervous, clasping the hand of his wife, Nina.
They were greeted by members of the Zoria, a Ukrainian dance group from Hartford, dressed in traditional costume. A large round loaf of bread called kolach was passed first to Ms. Baiul, then to Mr. Petrenko and his wife, and to officials of Fish Enterprises/World Skate Inc., which is building the rink.
A wind wreaked havoc with hair-dos and microphones, but the ceremony came off as smoothly as one of Ms. Baiul's and Mr. Petrenko's routines. A native of Ukraine now living in Hartford provided some home country soil for the groundbreaking, and the choir from the Children's Ukrainian School in Hartford sang Ukraine's national anthem as well as "The Star Spangled Banner."
"I think it's just terrific," said Kim Hayden of nearby Avon. Mrs. Hayden took a long lunch from work with her daughter, Kelly Anne, 13, an avid figure skater, thrilled to find a front-row seat.
"I think it will be wonderful to have a big sporting facility under one roof," said Sandra Sundwall of the Tariffville section of Simsbury. The center will have two rinks, one for the public, the other for competitors in training.
Others looked at the economic impact. "I think it will put Simsbury in the forefront," said Sal Gilberto, who works at Wagner Ford, just in front of the rink site. "And it'll be good for the car business."
Mr. Petrenko said he was "very excited" about the prospect of living and training in Connecticut, although he will still call Odessa his "base home." World Skate Inc., formed by Mr. Fish, is providing town houses to Ms. Baiul, the Petrenkos and their coach, Galina Zmiesvskaya.
Why Simsbury when they could train anywhere? Mr. Petrenko said he wants to be near his coach, Ms. Zmiesvskaya -- who is also his mother-in-law. He said the center would be world class, with an Olympic figure skating coach, Bob Young, a West Hartford native, as executive director. Mr. Young will also be the pair's skating coach.
Ms. Zmiesvskaya said she is committed to stay in Simsbury through the 1998 Olympics. Her daughter, Nina Petrenko, a professional dancer, will be the center's director of choreography.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oksana Baiul, center, and Viktor Petrenko, second from right, the Olympic skating champions, taking part in groundbreaking ceremonies for an Olympic-size skating center in Simsbury, Conn. (Associated Press)
 
Map: The skating rink just north of Simsbury will cost $5 Million. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2121 CIGARS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CULBRO CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIMSBURY (CONN); UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CHILDREN (68%); CORPORATE GIVING (68%); DANCE (66%); 

PERSON: BAIUL, OKSANA; PETRENKO, VIKTOR VIKTOR PETRENKO (93%); OKSANA BAIUL (91%); GALINA ZMIESVSKAYA (65%); BOB YOUNG (56%); KIM HAYDEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



533 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 7295 words

HEADLINE: THE WHITEWATER AFFAIR;
Excerpts From Hillary Clinton's News Session on Whitewater

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Hillary Rodham Clinton's news conference at the White House yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:
Q. Since Whitewater's been in the news so much, I feel it's fair to ask you the same question I put to the President some time ago -- and you were, are, a co-partner: Do you know of any money that could have gone from Madison to the Whitewater project or to any of your husband's political campaigns? 
 A. Absolutely not. I do not.
Q. Actually on this same theme, with your commodities profits, you know, it is difficult for a layman and probably for a lot of experts to look at the amount of the investment and the size of the profit. I mean, is there any way you can explain how you --
A. Well, I can certainly tell you what happened. And I appreciate your asking me about it because I've tried to follow the accounting in the press about it and I want to explain as clearly as I can what occurred.
Back in 1978, in October, one of our best friends, Jim Blair, who had been a friend of my husband's and mine for some time, talked to me about what he thought was a great investment opportunity. He is someone who has been an investor ever since he was a teen-ager with usually very good results. And he had followed closely what had been happening in the cattle market. And I only knew a little bit about that, although living in Arkansas, particularly northwest Arkansas, as I did, I was familiar with a lot of ranchers and people who were in the cattle industry. And when Jim said, "I think there's going to be a great opportunity to make money" and explained why and asked me what I thought we could afford to invest, I told him a thousand dollars.
So I opened an account at his very strong recommendation and proceeded to trade over the next months, until July. You know, not all my trades made money. Some of them lost money. I talked to Mr. Blair very frequently. In fact, Jim would call me on a regular basis, and I would make a decision whether I would or would not trade. And then the trade would be placed. Often he placed it for me. And there was nothing wrong with that. He was on the spot. He was often in the offices of the broker.
I stopped trading in July of 1979. And I did stop trading in large measure because I could not keep up with it. It takes a lot of nerve to be in the commodities trading, and I'd just found out I was pregnant. And so when he called again, I said, "You know, I just don't want to do this anymore." And I think he may have even called a few more times, saying: "You know, it's really still doing well. Trade again." And I didn't, and I'm glad I didn't because he and other friends of mine who were trading ended up losing money.
So it was a good investment offered by somebody who knew a lot who could provide a lot of good advice, and I was lucky and made the decision to stop when I did.
Q. Do you understand this -- if maybe your broker might have, because of your position or your husband's, might have given you some kind of unfavorable or, you know, favored advantage?
A. There's really no evidence of that. I didn't believe it at the time. As I said, you know, I made and lost money in that commodities account. It was my money. It was at risk. The account was in my name. I got the reports. We've released all of the documents we could find from that period from that account. So, no, I had no reason to believe that. And as Mr. Leo Melamed, the former head of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said when he looked at all of my trading records, there isn't any evidence that anybody gave me any favorable treatment. And even Mr. Blair, who ended up losing money, I think would find it very hard to argue that he got any favorable treatment. I just don't think there's any evidence there.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, you said you stopped trading in July of 1979. Could you talk about the second account that was opened?
A. Sure.
Q. There was a second account, with the Stephens Company, in which I think you invested $5,000. And at first the White House claimed you lost money on it, but later you put out documents showing you actually made $6,000 on it and didn't close it until a few months after Chelsea was born.
A. That's right. And I'm glad you asked that, because I really want to clarify it. I think there's been a lot of confusion. There were two accounts. The first account -- the one that I was just talking about -- was the Refco account. I traded in that from October '78 to July of '79, when I found out I was pregnant and I stopped trading. Now, I closed that account for good in October of '79, and I took some of the money that I had made and put it into an account at Stephens. And at that point, I made that a discretionary account. My Refco account was a nondiscretionary account, which meant that I had to approve and give the go-ahead for every trade. In the discretionary account at Stephens, my broker made most of the decisions. And I think he did a good job for me. He diversified the money that I gave him and put it into money markets and stocks and bonds, and $5,000 into some commodities.
Now, what happened then is -- in retrospect, as I've been able to reconstruct it now -- is that my broker made these decisions. He checked with me maybe a couple of times a month, but because it was discretionary he did not have to get my approval. And so money would be moved from one investment to another investment. And during the course of the time between October of '79 and probably May of 1980, he had me in and out of three different commodity accounts in much smaller numbers than what I had been in charge of doing in my Refco account.
In February of 1980, my daughter was born, at the very end of the month. And I remember talking to my broker sometime after that and said, "You know, I just want to get out of commodities altogether. I don't ever want to have to worry about it." So he got me out of the positions that I had been in, so that by May I was no longer doing any kind of commodity trading in the Stephens account. Now, what happened, though, is that he took the money that I now know I made -- I really didn't think I'd made any money in commodities -- and he bought some stock, and he did some other things for me.
Now, in the fall of 1980, my husband lost his election. We moved. So by 1981, when I gathered all my documents together to give to my accountant, I had a year-end statement from Stephens which did not report anything about commodities. I had a year-end statement from the Peavey Brokerage Company which reported a loss, and I had no year-end statement from either Clayton or the company called ACLI. So I think what happened is we bundled all of the documents we had, because I took all of the reports that I had, gave them to the accountant, and I believe that in the absence of a year-end statement the accountant and my husband and I missed the fact that we had actually made some money in the ACLI account.
Q. Do you remember that profit?
A. No. I did not remember that profit. I did not. And in fact, as you said, when some people looking at the records for me began looking at it originally, they looked at the records and they thought I'd had a $5,000 loss. And they came to me and said, "We think you had a loss which you didn't report." And I said, you know, I just don't remember. I thought I basically got out with what I put in. And then they went back and relooked at it again with, you know, more accountants, and they came up with the gain. So it was hard to find, apparently.
Q. With regard to the Refco account, just how did the procedure go? Did Mr. Blair basically recommend to you the transactions which you either said yes or no to? Or was it based more on knowledge that you had gained -- as some of your staff have suggested -- from reading the papers, or whatever? What happened?
A. Well, Brit, it was primarily Jim's suggestion. But I also did try to educate myself. You know, I did try to read some things. He actually gave me a few documents to read. Because he had this theory that because of the economy in the early part of the 1970's, a lot of cattle herds had been liquidated, so that there was going to be a big opportunity to make money in the late 70's. And he gave me things to read about that. And I did occasionally read, you know, publications like The Journal and others and, you know, I tried to educate myself because I took the responsibility seriously. But I relied primarily on his advice, because he really spent an enormous amount of time studying the market and talking to many more people than I ever could have -- people who, you know, ran feedlots or bought beef for large supermarket chains. So he would talk to me, and he'd say: "Here's what I think is going on. What do you think?" Now, I did not make every trade he recommended. And certainly, by July -- when I began to, you know, get nervous about it -- I stopped taking his recommendations, because I just couldn't bear the risk anymore.
Q. Did it concern you at the time that because of his position with the company that he represented, that there was an ethical question raised by your accepting this level of assistance in a financial matter from him?
A. No, it did not. And the reason it didn't is that he and his wife are among our very best friends. My husband performed their marriage ceremony. I was the best person at the wedding. We are very close friends. And I found it a little bit surprising that anyone would suggest that, because in 1980, right during the time that this was all going on, when my husband ran for re-election, Tyson supported his opponent. So there's really no basis for suggesting it was anything other than what it was, which was a friend who made a suggestion -- and not just to me, but to a number of people -- which I think was, you know, very fortunate for me.
Q. You said that there was no preferential treatment in all of this. The records indicated that your account was short of money at various points. Were there margin calls? And did you meet any of those calls? And were you aware at any time that Refco was coordinating trades to drive prices up or down?
A. No, I was not aware of that, Andrea. I was told that after I stopped trading some months later. And I know there were lawsuits filed alleging that. I don't think any of that was ever proved, at least that I'm aware of. And when my position was under margin, I would either close out my position or use the equity that I had -- and I think Mr. Melamed said, based on his review of the records, there were a couple of occasions when I was under margin. Nobody ever called and asked me for anything. They just, I guess, took the money that I had in the account and closed out the position. But that was the responsibility of the broker. And from what I know, they were doing so many trades and there was so much volume going through that I was a relatively small customer. I mean, it was very big money for me and my family, but it was a very small account, and I don't think they paid any attention to my particular situation.
Q. Why do you think that they gave you this treatment with you being such a small customer? Don't you think that was preferential treatment --
A. No.
Q. -- based upon who you were and who your husband was?
A.No. I really don't believe that. I don't think there's any evidence of that. You know, from what I know about commodity trading and what I know about the cattle market during that period of time, they were just buying and selling on a huge basis, day in and day out. And I think that they may have not gotten around to the paperwork. They may have not thought it was worth it. They may have seen that I was a regular customer and that I covered my losses, that there was never an occasion when they really had to be concerned about it. I can't read their minds or speculate, but I had absolutely no reason to believe that I got any favorable treatment. And the fact that I closed the account out and took my money, whereas the people whom I knew were much bigger traders like Jim Blair and others -- they lost money -- and why would Jim Blair try to help me get favorable treatment that he couldn't get for himself? I mean, it doesn't make any sense to me at all.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, one of the things that has made all of this so controversial is the shifting accounts of what happened. Because initially the White House explained that you were consulting Blair and many others and reading The Wall Street Journal, and then later had to correct that. And we found out that Mr. Blair was in fact most often placing your trades for you, phoning the trades in. Why was the account -- why did the account have to be corrected? Why was it not explained accurately the first time?
A. Well, Linda, I think it's because, you know, we're trying to reconstruct events of, you know, 15, 16, 17 years ago. There are a lot of people who are trying to help. But until relatively recently there wasn't any one person in charge of trying to get everything together and get the, you know, information as accurate as possible. I think the people in the White House did the best job they could. I think that we did the best job we could trying to remember things and oftentimes having to search to see whether we had any records. I mean, I don't know how many of you keep, you know, records from 1978 or '79, but, I mean, we went through a lot of effort to try to see whether we had anything so that we could answer questions and then make things available. Sometimes we'd find part of something. Sometimes we'd then find the rest of it. So I appreciate and understand the concern about, you know, why we would have to add information or go back and say, "Well, this needs to be corrected."
But the fundamental facts have not changed. I mean, the fundamental facts are, as I have said: I opened an account with my money. I made the trades. It was nondiscretionary. I took the risk. I was the one who made the decision to stop trading. And that I did rely on Jim Blair. I used some other advice as well, but he was my principal adviser in this.
Q. But that wasn't a question of documents, that particular fact, the fact that he was really driving the trading for you. I guess I wanted to re-ask that question again. Why -- that would be something you would remember or not remember without documentary support -- so, why was that fact not made clear? And were you essentially riding on his coattails when you traded?
A. No, I wasn't. I was riding on the money I invested. You know, I don't know how any of you make investment decisions, but I like to listen to people I know and trust who I think know what they're doing. And he was somebody who I very much thought knew what he was doing and was more than willing to share his information, not only with me but with many people: members of his family and other of his friends. And it was for all of us a decision to put ourselves basically at the mercy of the market. And as Jim Blair found out, he wasn't always right. He lost a lot of money. And I was lucky -- I didn't. But that was my decision.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, a number of your old friends in Little Rock -- Warren Stephens, who I guess is an old friend; Curt Bradbury, Bill Bowen, people like that -- had a meeting on March 31. And they decided that really Arkansas has taken a beating -- portrayed, in the words of one of them, as a moral and ethical backwater -- basically because people hear us saying, "It was done that way in Arkansas." How do you feel about what's happening down there and what's happening to those people who feel they're being hurt by events out of their control? And they feel that they're not really being -- the state is not really being -- defended by you and your husband. I wonder if you'd address that. 
A. Well, I feel very bad about it, because I think Arkansas is a wonderful place and filled with some of the best people I've ever been privileged to know or work with. And I do think that many of the charges have been very unfair and have really lacked any historic or realistic context. I don't think it's necessary to point fingers at any other state in the Union to say that, you know, every place there are people who have problems and there are people who cause problems. And I think that, you know, the state of Arkansas is a place that has, you know, just so much to be proud of. So I hope that we can get back to a more realistic assessment of what goes on there.
Q. May I follow?
A. Sure.
Q. They've said -- and specifically Bradbury and Mr. Stephens have said -- that to a certain extent they feel you've brought this on yourself, the two of you, because of campaign statements about a decade of greed and just things that they feel, in their words, make it look like hypocrisy: that you were into go-go trading. You were trying, as you said, an opportunity to make money, just as they were. And they felt like they had been condemned by you -- that people like that had been condemned by you during the campaign and that now you were being shown to be doing the things you spoke against.
A. Well, Curt and Warren have never said that to me, so I'll have to take your word for it. But I do think you raised an important question that I would like to talk about a little bit. You know, I was raised to believe that every person had an obligation to take care of themselves and their family. And that meant, you know, earning an income and saving and investing. I was raised by a father who had me reading the stock tables when I was a little girl, and I started doing that with my daughter when she was a little girl. I don't think you'll ever find anything that my husband or I said that in any way condemns the importance of making good investments and saving or that in any way undermines what is the heart and soul of the American economy, which is risk-taking and investing in the future.
What I think we were saying is that like anything else, that can be taken to excess. When companies are leveraged into debt, when loans are not repaid, when pension funds are raided -- you know, all of the things that marked the excess of the 1980's are things which we spoke out against.
I think it's a pretty long stretch to say that the decisions that we made to try to create some financial security for our family and make some investments come anywhere near there. I also think that, you know, my husband and I made different choices than to concentrate on making money during the 1980's. We obviously wanted enough financial security to send our daughter to college and put money away for our old age and help our parents when we could. But we were primarily interested in -- in his case -- in trying to provide opportunities for people in Arkansas and make a difference in their lives. And what I tried to do both to help him and to work on behalf of children or education reform was what was really important to us. So I think that is, you know, something that needs to be put again in a proper perspective.
Q. In the same vein, somewhat in the same vein, you were reported to have opposed a special prosecutor, at least in the beginning -- and some of the release of tax documents -- on the basis of privacy, that you felt you had a right to privacy. Do you think that that helped to create any impression that you were trying to hide something?
A. Yes, I do. And I think that is probably one of the things that I regret most and one of the reasons why I wanted to do this, because I've had to really do a lot of thinking the last couple of months. You know, again, I was raised to really believe that what was important was what you thought about yourself and how you measured up to the standards you set for yourself. And I think if my father or mother said anything to me more than a million times, it was don't listen to what other people say, don't be guided by other people's opinions, you know, you have to live with yourself. And I think that's good advice. I mean, I'm glad I got it as a girl growing up, and I've passed it on to my daughter. But I do think that that advice and my belief in it, combined with my sense of privacy -- because I do feel like I've always been a fairly private person leading a public life -- led me to perhaps be less understanding than I needed to of both the press and the public's interest as well as a right to know things about my husband and me.
So you're right. I've always believed in a zone of privacy. And I told a friend the other day that I feel after resisting for a long time, I've been re-zoned. You know, and I now have a much better appreciation of what's expected, and not only what I have done -- because I am extremely comfortable and confident about everything that I have done -- but about my ability to communicate that clearly and to give the information that you all need.
Now, to your other question, about the special counsel. I was not the only one of my husband's advisers who questioned the idea of a special counsel. I think that those of us who did were concerned about the precedent that would be set by having such an appointment made when none of the existing standards that had always been in place had been met. There was no credible allegation -- you know all of the things that usually are required. So I was questioning of that. But the President made the decision that we needed to get on with the business he came to Washington to do and that this was an important step to take, and I respected that decision.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. Mrs. Clinton, do you know anything about Mr. Foster's death? Do you know what he wanted to tell the President that he didn't get to tell him?
A. You know, I don't know that he wanted to tell the President anything. That's the first I've heard of that. My memory is that the President actually talked to Vince Monday night, before he died, and when I talked with the President afterward he was stunned because the conversation was a very normal kind of a conversation. So I don't know.
Q. Well, I understood they made an appointment to talk not the next day but Wednesday, and that would have been the day after he died.
A. I don't know. I don't know.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, my question -- I'd like a follow-up too. The first one has to do with Susan MacDougal. She said that she brought the document of Whitewater over to you at the governor's mansion. Did you receive all the documents? And if so, what became of them?
A. I don't believe that we received all the documents in that way. Over the past several years, we have made a very deliberate effort to try to obtain documents. And every document that we have obtained has been turned over to special counsel, no matter where it came from.
Q. My follow-up has to do with the death of Mr. Foster, the way his office was sealed or the people who were in it. There's been a lot of criticism of the papers in Mr. Foster's office -- that some may have been removed.
A. Well, you know, I know there's been a lot of concern and criticism about that. I cannot speak to that in any detail. But I know that the special counsel is looking into the circumstances surrounding Mr. Foster's death, and I assume he will issue a report about that which I hope will put all these matters to rest once and for all.
Q. You said that -- just now -- that you'd decided that $1,000 was as much as you could risk. Can you tell us what your understanding was of how much you could be at risk with the little amount of money that you and your family had then? We were told earlier that $1,000 was what you were asked to put in. And second of all, can you give us some explanation -- given that a cattle contract at the time, just one contract, was $1,200 -- for the mystery of the $5,300 that was made really in the course of one day, or at least a few days, in the first trade?
A. No, I can't. I do not remember any of those details. I've given you every record that I have about that. The $1,000 was what I wanted to start with. And it was what I thought was a good beginning, a good investment for me. And once I had made the initial return that I did, I reinvested that. This was a roller coaster, and what I believed was that I was getting very good information and that I would end up making money. But there were a couple of days when I lost money. And I knew that I would be responsible for any losses that I suffered. But I did reinvest, and I covered the losses by closing positions. And then I eventually stopped trading.
Q. But when you first started with $1,000, did you believe you were putting at risk more than $1,000?
A. I believed that was certainly possible, yes.
Q. Then why did you take such a risky investment?
A. Because I didn't think it was that big a risk, because I thought that Jim and the people he was talking with knew what they were doing. And, you know, I've read a letter to the editor that somebody sent me from one of your newspapers, I think, which talked about a woman who invested $1,000 during the same time and made $750,000. Well, she had a stronger stomach than I did. I couldn't do that.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. The Whitewater development was set up, as you say, as a 50-50 partnership between the Clintons and the MacDougals, meaning that you were liable for 50 percent of the losses or 50 percent of the gains. And yet, by your own accounting, you lost half or even maybe a third of what the MacDougals lost. This is according to the Lyons report. Doesn't that discrepancy represent some sort of a gift or gratuity?
A. No. And let me say that, yes, the ownership of the corporation was 50-50. The liability on the underlying debt was 100 percent for each one of us. I mean, there was no gift in that. When my husband and I signed that mortgage, and when we re-signed guarantees, we assumed the whole responsibility. I mean, if Jim had gone into bankruptcy early on, if Susan had left, we would not have only 50 percent of the obligation; we would have 100 percent of the obligation.
Q. But why was it that the MacDougals lost so much more money than you did? I don't understand it.
A. I can't answer that. I mean, we gave whatever money we were requested to give by Jim MacDougal. I mean, he was the one who would say: "Here's what you owe on interest. Here's what your contribution should be." We did whatever he asked us. We saw no records. We saw no documents. He was someone that my husband had known a very long time. He was someone who had been in the real estate business with many people we knew, including Senator Fulbright, and we just assumed that whatever he needed he would ask for. And we didn't have any information to the contrary.
Q. It's just that given that you were jointly and separately liable for all the debt and that you and your husband are both lawyers, that you would be so passive about a fairly substantial investment.
A. Well, we were not real estate developers, and Jim had a track record. And I wasn't a cattle expert; I trusted Jim Blair, and it worked out for me. And I wasn't a real estate expert, and we lost money. Those things happen.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, just to get back to Linda's earlier question. One of the things that has been driving this is either the lack of explanations or the shifting explanations. And in terms of the way that your commodities trading was first described: that you did the trades, you relied on some advice from Mr. Blair. Later it was revealed that Mr. Blair placed most of the trades, if not all of them. Can you explain what happened? Did you have a new recollection? Why the shift?
A. Well, if you just listen to what you said: I did the trades. They were my trades. I was responsible for them.
But I did them on the advice of Jim Blair. And very often he placed them for me. I'm not in any way excusing any confusion that we have created. I think we have created it because I don't think that we gave enough time or focused enough. I have been traveling, and I'm more committed to health care than anything else I do. I probably did not spend enough time, get as precise. Different people heard different things that I said, or by the time it got passed to the third or fourth person, or one member of the press would call somebody in the White House but somebody else would call another person. So I think that the confusion was our responsibility. We did not give you a focused place to come, and we did not spend the time necessary. There's not really a contradiction in what you said and what I said. But I can understand how somebody might assume that.
Q. Now that we're clearing up a lot of confusion, I'll ask you about one other thing that I've had problems with. During the campaign -- I think it was right after the primary debate between Jerry Brown and your husband -- you made a statement in, I think, a Chicago restaurant that you never did any regulatory work for Madison Guaranty. When the letter went to Beverly Bassett Schaffer about perhaps the legality of offering preferred stock, your name was at the bottom of that letter.
A. Right.
Q. Could you explain that?
A. Yes. I'm glad you asked that, because that's another thing that I feel has gotten confused in the telling. Let me just try to describe what happened there. When in 1985, I believe, -- maybe '86 -- there was an effort made on the part of various financial institutions around the country to increase their capital net worth, they began looking for ways to do that. There was a very bright young associate in our law firm who had a relationship with one of the officers at Madison, a young man whom he had known. They began talking.
And if you'll remember what happened when the S.& L.'s were deregulated, many states were left wholly unprepared: they did not have a regulatory system in place, they didn't even really have good laws. All of a sudden there was no Federal regulation to speak of, and so people were asking state governments whether things could be done.
Those two young men thought that it would be legal under Arkansas law for a savings and loan to issue preferred stock. But there was absolutely no law on that, and so they couldn't be sure. But they decided that what they wanted to do was to ask the person who regulated savings and loans whether it was legal -- not if Madison could do it; that was the second step. The first step was could you even do it in Arkansas, whether you were A, B or C, not just Madison.
When they talked about doing that, the young attorney in question needed a partner to serve as his backstop, and that was one of the rules we had in our firm. He knew that I knew Jim MacDougal. He also knew that Jim had been a client of our firm in the past. This was not a new representation.
So he came to me and asked me if I would talk with Jim to see whether or not Jim would let the lawyer and the officer go forward on this project. I did that, and I arranged that the firm would be paid a $2,000-a-month retainer. And that was ordinary and customary. That would be billed against, unlike retainers of some really big law firms that if you pay the retainer they keep it, no matter whether they do any work for you. This was really an advance against billing. That was arranged.
The young attorney, the young bank officer did all the work, and the letter was sent. But because I was what we called the billing attorney -- in other words, I had to send the bill to get the payment made -- my name was put on the bottom of the letter. It was not an area that I practiced in, it was not an area that I really know anything, to speak of, about.
At that point, the regulatory authorities -- namely, Beverly Bassett Schaffer -- answered the legal question. And the legal question was: Yes, it is permissible under Arkansas law to issue this preferred stock. Then the question moved on to the second phase, in which I had no involvement that I have any memory of, or anyone that I've talked with. That was trying to determine whether Madison could go forward.
And I think that the Securities Commissioner acted absolutely appropriately. She answered the legal question: Yes, it is legal to do this. But as to Madison, she laid out conditions that had to be met for Madison to do it. And Madison could never meet those conditions, and so they never issued preferred stock. So the legal question was answered, but Madison got no benefit at all from the answer of that legal question.
Q. Can you clarify for us what documents were removed from Vince Foster's office after he died, and why they were there in the first place?
A. I can tell you what I know, which is I did not know Vince had any of the documents related to our personal business in his office until after his death. What I believe he was doing with them was serving as a coordinator among our private lawyers and accountants and certain government officials, like the Office of Government Ethics, with respect primarily to our blind trust. Because there were all these questions that had to be answered and he was kind of the, you know, the coordinator. The private lawyers would talk to him; the Office of Government Ethics people would talk to him. I think that's why he had any documents of a personal nature in his office at the time of his death.
Q. Why did your chief of staff, Maggie Williams -- why was she involved at all to remove these documents from his office within a day of his death?
A. I don't think that she did remove any documents. I think that what happened is that after Mr. Nussbaum reviewed the documents, and after he did so -- as I recall; I was not here, I was in Arkansas -- but I believe that was done in the presence of officials from the park police and maybe some other agencies. Then Mr. Nussbaum distributed the files according to whom he thought should have them. There were files related to ongoing work in the counsel's office that needed to be passed on to other lawyers, there were personal files of Vincent's that needed to go to his family, and there were these personal files of ours that went to our lawyers.
Q. Another question about this re-zoning of private and public lives: I'm wondering what kind of a toll, if any, this has taken on you, on your and the President's personal and political lives. And do you ever look in the mirror and wish that you'd just never got into this?
A. No, never. Never. I mean, some days are better than other days, but, you know, I think what has helped me in the last couple of weeks -- aside from some good friends who have talked with me and helped me get re-zoned, if you will -- is my belief that this is really a result of our inexperience in Washington, if you will; that I really did not fully understand everything that I wish now I had known. You know, it's a learning experience, sometimes a difficult one but I think one that both the President and I are anxious to do because we think that the reason he was elected was to deal with the big issues that we want the country to deal with. And so it is a little disappointing if we in any way contribute to a diversion from that. That's something I don't want to have happen in the future, and I'm certainly going to try to be more sensitive to what you all need, and what we need to give you, and do it in a more efficient and effective way the first time.
Because, as I said earlier, I feel very confident about how this will all turn out. This is not a long-term problem or issue in any way. But I don't want anybody to have the wrong impressions of either of us, and I don't want anything to interfere with doing what the people of this country need done.
Q. Mr. Clinton has spoken of the politics of personal destruction. Who do you believe are main perpetrators of that?
A. I don't want to get into that. I don't think that that bears any real useful discussion. I think that what's important is for us -- not just the President and me but the entire Administration -- to keep focused on what really will stand the test of history and what we really are trying to do for the country. And I can't really help it if some people get up every day wanting to destroy instead of build, or wanting to undermine. That's something that I try not to think about or dwell on, and try to do what I'm expected to do, which for me is working on health care.
Q. When was your last conversation with Vince Foster, and what was your understanding of the state of his mind?
A. You know, I've thought about that so many times. I don't think I had any conversation with him for at least three weeks before he died because, you know, we left for Tokyo somewhere around the Fourth of July is my best memory. And for about a week before that, I was very preoccupied with getting ready for the trip and doing the things you have to do. So I don't have any memory of having talked to Vince, and I never talked to him during the time that I was gone. And like every one of our friends, you know, we relived everything that happened or didn't happen. The people who talked to him, the people who spent time with him, they question whether they said the right thing, whether they could have done something else. The fact that I didn't talk to him makes me wonder whether if I had called him I could have picked up a clue. I just don't have any way of knowing.
Q. It supposedly had been depression, or so we were told, for a considerable period of time. Were you ever aware of that?
A. No.
Q. Did you have any clue what was going on?
A. No. Neither did people who, you know, spent the weekend with him or saw him in the office that day. You know, one of the things that I've spent a lot of time doing in the last months is trying to educate myself about depression. And my good friend Tipper Gore has been a great help on that, as have the people she's worked with on mental health issues. And I just hope that we get over the stigma that is still often attached to people admitting they need help or that they can't understand what's happening to them. I have no doubt now, in retrospect -- and many of my friends now can reconstruct conversations or things they saw in Vince in those last weeks, but they didn't know, they didn't understand. And he didn't either feel comfortable or know himself. So maybe out of all of this tragedy and the aftermath, all of the speculation, maybe once we put to rest once and for all the fact that he committed suicide and that it was a tragic loss of one of the best people we've ever known, maybe it can do something to help other people understand what depression can do to you.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, what was your personal reaction when you learned that Jay Stephens would be representing the R.T.C. in a case against Madison?
A.My personal reaction?
Q. About the fairness of that decision by the R.T.C. to hire him.
A. Well, I didn't understand it, you know. But I don't know Mr. Stephens, and I assume he will be a very fair and judicious lawyer. I guess that's what I would expect.
Q. You're not concerned about his being a Republican appointee and a U.S. Attorney appointed by President Bush?
A. Not if he abides by the code of professional ethics and does his job professionally, I'm not, and you all keep an eye on him.
Q. Mrs. Clinton, do you think, with the benefit of hindsight, that it was improper for you and your law firm to represent the Federal Government against a family friend, Dan Lassiter, and against accountants for Madison S.& L. without fully disclosing that you had been business partners with Mr. MacDougal?
A. Well, Ann, I don't know what was disclosed and what wasn't. Those were not my cases. Those were cases that came to the firm to other lawyers. I've been told that things were disclosed quite extensively. And certainly in Arkansas, most things are known. And the relationship with Mr. MacDougal, the fact that Mr. Lassiter made campaign contributions to my husband, was certainly well-known. In both of those instances, I don't think I had anything to do at all with the representation against Madison on behalf of the Federal Government. At least I have absolutely no memory of having done anything on that case.
With respect to the Lassiter case: I think out of that entire case I worked two hours, as a favor to one of the lawyers who was out of town who asked me to review a pleading. And I have specifically inquired whether there was any ethical conflict with respect to that and have been assured there was not. He was not a client that we had any obligation to. Thousands and thousands of people contributed to my husband. That is not considered disqualification. We were not personal friends or social friends. So I don't see any basis for saying that my work for him, as limited -- or against him -- as limited as it was, amounted to any kind of conflict.
Q. It's not just the press that has questions -- sometimes the American citizens who talk to your husband at town meetings and all. And one young woman in Charlotte asked him a question I'd like to pose to you. She said that in the recent news reports about the First Lady's cattle futures earnings, and with all these Whitewater allegations, many of us Americans are having a hard time with your credibility. How can you earn our trust back? Is there a fundamental distrust of the Clintons in America?
A. Well I hope not. I mean, that would be something that I would regret very much. I do think that we are transition figures, if you will. We don't fit easily into a lot of our pre-existing categories. And let me speak just about myself. You know, I came to this role having worked my entire life. I mean, I started working in the summers when I was 13. I always worked. I worked through college. I worked through law school. That's what I did. And after I married, I continued to work. And after my daughter was born, with the exception of the four months I took off for maternity leave, I worked. Now, I took time off from work to do volunteer work, like I took long time off from my law firm work to work on education reform, or I would take time off to work on my husband's campaigns, or I would be in Washington on the Children's Defense Fund. I would certainly take a lot of time, but I was fundamentally working.
And I think that having been independent, having made decisions, it's a little difficult for us as a country maybe to make the transition of having a woman like many of the women in this room, sitting in this house. So I think that the standards -- and to some extent, the expectations and the demands -- have changed. And I'm trying to find my way through it and trying to figure out how best to be true to myself and how to fulfill my responsibilities to my husband and my daughter and the country. So I do think that there is some of that.
And then additionally, as I have said earlier, I think that my fundamental belief in privacy and my feeling that we were being asked things and demands were being placed on us that had never been demanded of prior inhabitants of this house -- unprecedented, in Arthur Schlesinger's words -- didn't make sense to me. I couldn't quite figure it out, and I resisted that. And I think I resisted it in ways that may have raised more questions than they answered. And I just don't think that was a very useful road for me to go down, and I'm trying now to better understand how to fit my personal needs and my own personal beliefs and what I want to do with this role for the country and the contribution I want to make into a broader context so that I can be as forthcoming and accessible as you need me to be.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillary Rodham Clinton gave the White House counsel Lloyd N. Cutler a kiss yesterday after her White House news conference. With her was her press secretary, Lisa Caputo. John D. Podesta, the White House staff secretary, left, also greeted the First Lady. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 12); Hillary Rodham Clinton taking questions from reporters yesterday at a White House news conference at which she sought to offer an explanation of her financial dealings. (Reuters)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS; FINANCES, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



534 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Mediation Set For Teamsters And Truckers In Walkout

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Taking a tentative step toward the settlement of a 17-day strike against a consortium of trucking companies, officials with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters agreed today to Federal mediation but stopped short of calling drivers and other union members back to work.
The union's decision came in response to a letter from Federico F. Pena, the Secretary of Transportation, and Robert B. Reich, the Secretary of Labor, who argued that the lack of progress in the talks was disrupting the normal flow of goods around the country and particularly threatened freight to Alaska and Hawaii. 
 Representatives of Trucking Management Inc., the group representing the companies that were struck, also agreed to accept the offer for mediation. But they did so while taking a jab at the teamsters' negotiators. Arthur H. Bunte Jr., the president of truckers group, criticized the Teamsters' leadership for refusing to allow "any flexibility or lower wage and benefit costs that would prove so critical to our survival."
The Transportation and Labor Secretaries assigned John C. Wells, the director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, to bring the two sides together to resolve a series of issues that range from the introduction of part-time workers to handle freight during peak load periods to the amount of goods that can be shipped by rail rather than in trucks.
The letter added that spot reports indicated early problems in the availability of parts for automobile assembly. Such a shortage would be one of the first important economic repercussions of the job action. Most of the goods shipped by the union workers have either been transferred to nonunion carriers during the strike or have not broadly affected either manufacturing or general consumers.
Ron Carey, the president of the teamsters, said that he would meet with Mr. Wells early Saturday but added that the strike would continue until a tentative agreement is reached.
"We had hoped the companies would be willing to negotiate in good faith," he said in a statement. "But for the good of the country and our members and their families, we've agreed to see if mediation can help bring about an agreement."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite progress toward a settlement of their 17-day-old strike against a consortium of trucking companies, members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters continued to man the picket lines. Union members in San Bernardino, Calif., closed down a branch office of Bank of America for two hours yesterday while protesting the bank's connections to Consolidated Freightways. (David Creamer/The San Bernardino Sun)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (93%); FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (93%); FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; STRIKES; LABOR; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); TRUCKING (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); RAIL FREIGHT (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S JOHN C WELLS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



535 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Havana Journal;
Economy Fading Fast, but Not Castro

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 22

 BODY:
For Cuban officialdom, it was more of what they see as three decades of undeserved hostility. For the emigres gathered here for a major conference, it was a desperate attempt to scare them off from an important visit.
For the sworn enemies of this country's Communist Government, it was a long-dreamed-of chance for change. In the end, though, it seems to have turned out to be nothing more than a hoax. 
 With the Cuban Government organizing its most significant meeting with exile groups here in more than 15 years, the Cuban-American population of Miami and even diplomatic circles has been obsessed this week with rumors that President Fidel Castro is seriously ill.
According to the reports that have made the rounds of television and radio stations in Miami, where the largest portion of the 1.5 million-member Cuban-American population lives, Mr. Castro, who is 66, has recently suffered everything from a heart attack or a stroke to bullet wounds in an assassination attempt.
Although diplomats in Washington suggested earlier in the week that the reports could be serious, Cuban officials and seemingly embarrassed Western diplomats here say now that despite the unusual intensity of the rumor campaign the reports have no basis in fact.
The rumblings over Mr. Castro's health were apparently fed by the usually high-profile Cuban President's failure to meet with other foreign delegations that have visited Cuba recently, as well as by speculation over signs as obscure as the Cuban attendance at diplomatic receptions in Western capitals in the last week.
On Thursday, Western diplomats here said that although he had recently dropped out of sight for an unusually long period, Mr. Castro, who has been the country's leader since 1959, had been seen in public as recently as Tuesday, meeting with a visiting Mexican delegation.
Another sign that nothing unusual had happened to the Cuban leader, several diplomats here said, was that Mr. Castro's brother, Raul, who is widely seen as the President's eventual successor, has been traveling outside the capital.
"When there are major events like this, there are likely to be rumors," said a Western diplomat who dismissed the speculation over Mr. Castro.
Cuban officials, calling their President "as strong as a horse," said the rumors that Mr. Castro had suffered a major blow to his health were part of a long tradition of dirty tricks by the United States against their country.
By suggesting that a political transition could be imminent, the officials said, either Washington or hostile members of the Cuban-American exile community were seeking to create havoc precisely at the moment when Havana is seeking to create an opening to more moderate exiles, aimed in part at changing United States policy toward Cuba.
"It's always the same kind of thing," a Cuban official said of the rumors. "Whenever there is some kind of initiative from here, our enemies try to overshadow it with one thing or another."
At the peak of the campaign, on Wednesday, while United States agencies were beginning either to distance themselves from the reports about Mr. Castro or to say cautiously that they merited watching closely, hard-line opponents of the Cuban Government among the exiles were broadcasting "messages to the Cuban people" and talking about plans for succession.
On Wednesday, Jorge Mas Canosa, the leader of the largest anti-Castro group in the United States, the Cuban-American National Foundation, broadcast a 15-minute statement outlining his group's plans to form a transitional government composed of both exiles and Cubans, and to move quickly to convert the country's Communist system into a market economy.
Like other conservative exile groups, Mr. Mas Canosa's foundation was strongly opposed to holding any dialogue with the present Cuban Government. Many of the 200 or so participants in this week's conference say they came under heavy pressure in Miami aimed at preventing them from holding talks here.
In Havana, rather than discussing Mr. Castro's health, official news organizations, like many ordinary Cubans, have been focusing on the opening of the conference with the exiles, which is expected to pave the way for lifting many restrictions on travel to Cuba by emigrants from the country.
For Cubans here, visits from relatives abroad have become an important source of income and merchandise for an economy still afflicted by the end of subsidies from the former Soviet bloc.
For many Cuban-Americans, the right to visit their homeland with ease both preserves family links and allows the visitors to scout for business opportunities that could open up as Cuba's economy shifts toward more of a free- market model.
Among the exiles' requests to Havana are that special visa requirements for Cuban-Americans be lifted.
"Cubans who live outside of their country should not be considered foreigners in their own country," said Nicolas Rios Miera, a Cuban-American publisher who is taking part in the conference. "We are completely convinced that we will arrive at that goal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The loss of aid from the former Soviet bloc has caused Cuba to cut spending and to try to convert to a free-market economy. With the military budget cut in half, the army has had to improvise. Lieut. Col. Pedro Pena recently showed civilians how the Army practices firing a mortar, using a bamboo model. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; HEALTH, PERSONAL TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); REFUGEES (74%); ASSASSINATION (70%); HEART DISEASE (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); STROKES (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (52%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W FIDEL CASTRO (90%); RAUL CASTRO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



536 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Oil Jumps to $17.14 a Barrel, Highest Price in 5 Months

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices jumped to a five-month high yesterday amid continuing expectations that a rebound in the world economy would reduce supplies as production stagnates.
"There's been a sea change in the perceptions of the market," said Al Levine, oil economist with Smith Barney Shearson. "I think we could see this market rally through the end of the year" to $18.50 a barrel. 
 Crude for June delivery, the most active futures contract, soared 51 cents, to $17.14 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Despite the surge in oil prices, gold dropped to a five-month low and silver fell amid declining expectations for inflation.
A resurgent American economy and hopes for a similar pickup in Europe could increase demand for petroleum products in coming months, oil traders said. They also noted that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, whose members produce about 37 percent of the world's oil, last month left its output ceiling at 24.52 million barrels a day for the rest of the year.
Demand for OPEC crude oil, estimated at 23.3 million barrels daily, should rise to 25.9 million barrels by the end of the year, according to the International Energy Agency in Paris. That would draw down world oil stocks.
"Later on this year, fundamentals do look pretty good" for higher oil prices, said George Ellis, a trader with the GSC Energy Corporation in Atlanta.
Also pushing up oil prices yesterday were more reports that ethnic unrest in Nigeria had forced Royal Dutch/Shell to halt some oil production. The company said loadings are little affected so far, but traders are concerned about any possible disruptions since North Sea supplies are expected to decline next month.
Prices of petroleum products also rose, with May unleaded gasoline gaining 1.73 cent, to 50.89 cents a gallon, and May heating oil picking up 1 cent, to 47.87 cents a gallon.
Gold and silver prices fell on the Commodity Exchange in New York. June gold traded as low as $369.50 before rebounding to close with a loss of $2.60, at $372.10 an ounce, the lowest price for the active near-term futures contract since Nov. 30. May silver fell 13.2 cents, to $5.10, the lowest since Jan. 31.
Traders said falling prices did not stimulate demand for gold from industrial consumers and other usual buyers, pushing prices down further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (66%); RDSA (AMS) (66%); RDS.B (NYSE) (66%); RDS.A (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (66%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (66%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES TRADING; PRODUCTION OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



537 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mostly Firm but Dips Against Yen Ahead of Talks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar edged down against the Japanese yen but was steady against most other leading currencies yesterday as traders waited to see whether world economic leaders would try to curb the yen's recent rise.
Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations are to meet in Washington tomorrow and there was some speculation that they might consider currency policy. 
 "There's a chance they'll say something about exchange rates, but it's slight," said David De Rosa, director of foreign exchange trading at the Swiss Bank Corporation. "Still, people are a little nervous."
If anything, traders expect the Group of Seven ministers to say the strong yen is hurting global growth by hobbling the Japanese economy. Japanese manufacturers suffer when the yen is strong because their products become more expensive abroad.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 103.30 yen, down from 103.70 yen on Thursday. It slipped to 1.6892 German marks from 1.6911.
The yen has risen almost 20 percent against the dollar since February 1993. The rally started after President Clinton and his aides said a strong yen would help curb the American trade deficit.
"Everything is on hold ahead of the G-7," said Peter Luxton, an economist at Barclays Bank in London.
But there were some doubters.
"The last few G-7 meetings have been total nonevents," said Steve Geovanis, managing director of foreign exchange at Merrill Lynch & Company. This one probably will not be different, he said.
Concerns about the Group of Seven meetings did not upset the currency markets yesterday in part because so many traders have become disenchanted with the dollar, Mr. Geovanis said. "A lot of big money managers and hedge funds are on the sidelines," he said. "They got tired of buying the dollar and watching it lie there."
Many traders expected the dollar to rally in the first quarter as the American economy outperformed most others, driving American interest rates higher. The dollar faltered instead, dropping 4 percent against the mark and 8 percent against the yen, amid concern about slumping American stocks and bonds.
"People have been hurt constantly by buying dollars against other currencies," said Hugh Walsh, a trader at ING Capital Markets. "It's very frustrating."
The British pound fell yesterday to $1.4886 in New York from $1.4911 on Thursday. The dollar fell to 5.7941 French francs from 5.7951. It was little changed at 1.4335 Swiss francs and 1,619 Italian lire. The Canadian dollar was steady at 72.56 United States cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (83%); MER (NYSE) (83%); 8675 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); GROUP OF SEVEN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



538 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute On Wheat Heats Up

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
The wheat war brewing between the United States and Canada intensified today when the Clinton Administration announced that it was taking the first steps to restrict imports of Canadian wheat and barley into the United States, beginning July 1.
The United States contends that Canada has been unfairly subsidizing its wheat, depriving American farmers of earnings and driving up the cost to the Federal Government of its farm supports. Months of trade talks have failed to resolve the dispute. 
 What the Administration did today was set in motion legal steps that would allow it to limit Canadian imports in 90 days, if Ottawa does not agree to export curbs on its grains.
 
 
'A Strange Way'
 Canada has threatened to retaliate against American products, such as wine, bourbon, chicken and canned fruit, which are heavily dependent on the Candian market.
"It is certainly a strange way of proceeding to resolve a dispute between the largest trading partners in the world," the Canadian Trade Minister, Roy MacLaren, told reporters in Ottawa. "The irony of the United States instituting this measure at the very time that we have just committed ourselves to the greatest global freer trade agreement is striking."
Mr. MacLaren referrred to the North American Free Trade Agreement signed last December, which liberalized trade among the United States, Canada and Mexico.
Such a trade dispute is hardly new for the United States and Canada, which have gone to the brink before on other goods as disparate as lumber and beer, only to forge a solution to their differences at the last minute.
 
 
Concern, and Humor
 Nevertheless, the prospects of a wheat war between the United States and Canada has led to plenty of economic concern, but also some old-fashioned humor, although the Canadians do not seem amused. Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota joked during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing Wednesday that maybe the United States should threaten the Canadians with some of the nuclear missiles buried in silos underneath North Dakota farms.
"We've got 300 Minutemen 3's in North Dakota that we're ready to re-target and maybe that will get their attention," said Senator Conrad, who later went to great pains to explain to Canadians that he was really just joking.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, another lawmaker whose state borders on Canada, quipped to reporters today that in light of the brewing wheat war, "we never should have contemplated closing our base at Plattsburgh." Plattsburgh, a town on Lake Champlain in upstate New York, was the site of a British invasion from Canada that the Americans repulsed in 1814.
 
 
Midwestern Floods
 The current dispute arose in the wake of a sharp increase in the sale of Canadian wheat -- particularly durum wheat used in pasta -- to the United States in recent years. Last year's Midwestern floods, which wiped out some of the American crop, added to demands for Canadian grain. Canadian wheat shipments are expected to hit 2.5 million tons this crop year, compared with an average of about one million tons annually over the previous five years.
The United States contends that Canada is seizing more market share in the United States, thanks in part to Government railway subsidies. Washington wants to restrict Canadian exports to 1.5 million tons a year, and impose heavy tariffs on anything above that.
The Canadians want the cap to begin at 2 million tons and gradually rise to 2.5 million tons. They contend that the United States Government's own programs to encourage American farmers to export their wheat is partly responsible for creating a domestic shortage, which American grocers are responding to naturally by seeking out top-quality Canadian wheat.
 
 
Global Agreement
 The Canadian-American wheat war highlights one of the difficulties of carrying out the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the newly signed General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the global trading agreement, at the same time.
The North American trade pact calls for all tariffs and other barriers to be gradually phased out. GATT, on the other hand, calls for replacing trade barriers, like import quotas, with tariffs, which, over time, could also be phased out. What the lawyers for the United States and Canada are trying to do is find a solution that squares with these two treaties.
Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy, who announced the American action today, said it was being taken under Article 28 of the new GATT agreement that was signed a week ago in Morocco. Article 28 allows a GATT member to modify a tariff to deal with certain adverse trade circumstances. In this case, the United States would be seeking to impose tariffs on Canadian wheat above the 1.5-million-ton threshold. Under this rule, the United States has to give Canada 90 days to negotiate a mutually satisfactory new tariff arrangement. The current American tariff on wheat imports is 7 percent.
If those talks fail, the United States can then impose the higher tariff unilaterally, but Canada would also have the right under GATT to retaliate.
The negotiations are further complicated by the fact that Canada, under the GATT agreement, has to remove the import quotas it has on American poultry and dairy products and replace them with tariffs. But such tariffs go against the North American agreement. American negotiators say they will try to strike a deal that will make some concessions to the Canadians on wheat, in return for Canadian concessions on poultry and dairy tariffs. Eventually both tariffs will have to be phased out, though, in keeping with the North American Free Trade Agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GRAIN; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES; FARMERS IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); SALES FIGURES (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); KENT CONRAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



539 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: SOFTWARE;
For Retirement Advice, Fire Up Your Computer

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen 

 BODY:
PEOPLE who are retiring now can expect to live 25 to 30 years. That's quite a change from the 1960's, when most Americans worked until age 65 and died by age 70.
To make today's longer retirements a time of financial freedom, a great deal of planning is needed. Fortunately, expert help is available in the form of easy-to-use software. 
 People are retiring early -- by choice or because of corporate layoffs -- life expectancies are increasing and companies are moving from traditional pension plans to 401(k) plans in which employees may choose how much to contribute to retirement savings and how to invest it.
"The corporation is saying, 'We'll provide a foundation of retirement benefits, but we don't provide the whole megillah,' " said Roger C. Hindman, senior vice president of Price Waterhouse in Chicago and national director of the accounting firm's financial education group.
"This puts a burden on the employee for calculating life expectancies, inflation, income streams," all in relation to personal goals, he said. The task is even harder for people who must put together their own retirement savings.
To guide people through these calculations, Price Waterhouse is venturing into commercial software, offering a Retirement Planning System, available on both DOS and Windows platforms for personal computers. The accounting firm announced an agreement this month with Parsons Technology Inc. to market "the lite version" of the program through catalogues and stores for $19. The full program may be ordered directly from Price Waterhouse for $45 plus tax by calling 800 752-6234.
The program is easy to use and readily responds to "what-if" scenarios, displaying the results on colorful charts, so that plans can be revised easily. It also offers advice on investment choices, spousal benefits and estate planning.
Several mutual fund companies, including Fidelity, T. Rowe Price and Vanguard, offer retirement programs to the public for $15. What distinguishes Price Waterhouse's program is that it is more detailed and flexible, and the advice comes from a disinterested party.
Another expert source of advice comes from MECA Software, Fairfield, Conn., which has just introduced a Windows version of Andrew Tobias's "Managing Your Money," an all-around financial planning program with electronic links for bill-paying and investing. The program is far more than an update of the DOS version.
The program exploits the computer's graphics capacity to go beyond familiar on-screen icons, providing instead "Smart Desk," a colorful picture of a home study with a clearly labeled desk and bookcase, allowing users to navigate the program intuitively with little or no need for manuals or instruction.
Daniel M. Schley, president and chief executive of MECA, said, "Our goal is to provide a complete financial education for people that is fun." And MECA has done so.
A third choice comes from Microsoft, which recently introduced version 3.0 of its Microsoft Money personal finance software for the Windows operating system. The program is greatly expanded from earlier versions and offers Bank On-Line through the First National Bank of Chicago, Michigan National Bank and U.S. Bank, as well as on-line financial quotes and investing. Microsoft plans to link up with more banks.
Which program to buy? The Price Waterhouse program and general personal finance programs are well worth the cost in terms of time saving and long-term financial security.
"There is no silver bullet in retirement planning," Mr. Hindman said. "Don't wait; don't rely on others."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Planning To Retire" shows how $2,000 of annual savings would grow at various annual rates of return (Source: Price Waterhouse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (92%); PARSONS TECHNOLOGY INC (66%); MECA SOFTWARE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICE WATERHOUSE & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; PERSONAL COMPUTERS RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



540 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL;
Wilkinson Theorem Perplexes Bengals

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH 

 BODY:
Two days before the National Football League draft, Bengals General Manager Mike Brown says he hasn't received any offers that would tempt Cincinnati to give up the No. 1 pick.
"Up to this point, we're inclined to keep it," Brown said yesterday. 
 And the player most likely to be picked No. 1, Dan Wilkinson of Ohio State, said he wanted to be compensated accordingly, or else the Bengals should trade the pick to another team.
"If I'm No. 1, then I should have the No. 1 salary for the best player in college football," Wilkinson, a star defensive tackle, said yesterday at the Newport Beach, Calif., offices of his agent, Leigh Steinberg. "If Cincinnati isn't willing to compensate me, then they should trade down."
So the annual ritual of rookie contract negotiations has begun, with one important distinction: On one side is a powerful agent, Steinberg, who is used to getting what he wants for his clients, and on the other is the most miserly team in the N.F.L.
 
A Lonely Fight
 Brown said he hasn't tried to sign Wilkinson before the draft and probably won't try. That's partly because of accounts in Cincinnati papers in which Steinberg asked the Bengals "not to do to Dan" what they had done to others in past negotiations. This, Brown said , has made for a rocky start to any contract talks.
Steinberg said yesterday of Brown: "Mike Brown is in a lonely fight for economic rationality in the N.F.L. He is a Don Quixote-type figure pushing back the forces of salary madness."
The Bengals traditionally have one of the league's lowest payrolls and operate under the thinking that eventually any draftee will have no choice but to sign if he wants to play his rookie season.
Steinberg also represents Bengals quarterback David Klingler, and the two sides have had some testy negotiations in the past. But Steinberg said past acrimony would not play a part in talks about a contract for Wilkinson. Instead, he mentioned a philosophical difference with the Bengals over the concept of "disappearing years," in which a player reaching certain statistical achievements is then given the option to void the last year or two of a long-term contract, allowing him to renegotiate.
"I'm firm on being paid for the No. 1 pick," Wilkinson said. "There's a prejudice against defensive players."
Two years ago Indianapolis made Steve Emtman, a Washington defensive tackle, the No. 1 pick. Steinberg said the Bengals have been talking about less than what Emtman signed for, about $2.3 million a season.
Brown would not comment on any potential salary offer. But one thing seems clear. So far, he hasn't received an attractive enough deal to give up the top pick, no matter how hard it might be to sign Wilkinson.
 
Patriots in the Mix
 There is talk that the Patriots might put together a deal to get the No. 1 pick to make sure they can get Wilkinson or Marshall Faulk, the San Diego State running back. New England picks fourth and is set at quarterback, having drafted Drew Bledsoe last year.
If the Bengals selected Wilkinson, the Colts would probably take Faulk with the No. 2 pick. The Redskins are likely to take a quarterback, either Heath Shuler of Tennessee or Trent Dilfer of Fresno State. If that happens, the Patriots may decide to trade down with a team seeking the remaining passer -- Shuler or Dilfer.
Because the draft doesn't start until 3:30 Sunday afternoon, teams will have plenty of time to put together deals that day. Brown joked about what he thought most N.F.L. personnel people would be doing the Sunday morning leading up to the draft.
"They'll probably go to church in the morning, then have a leisurely brunch and then watch some of the ball game," Brown said.
He can afford to joke. He has the No. 1 pick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI BENGALS; OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (94%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI BENGALS; OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY CINCINNATI BENGALS (94%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ATHLETES (78%); 

PERSON: BROWN, MIKE; WILKINSON, DAN; SMITH, TIMOTHY W MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



541 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: THE WHITEWATER AFFAIR: THE OVERVIEW;
HILLARY CLINTON TAKES QUESTIONS ON WHITEWATER

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Moving to silence her critics, Hillary Rodham Clinton held a highly unusual news conference today in which she offered a calm and determined explanation of her financial dealings and an apology for the way the White House has handled questions about them.
Seated casually in the State Dining Room at the White House under the portrait of a pensive Abraham Lincoln, Mrs. Clinton said she was setting aside her desire for a "zone of privacy" to set the record straight on commodities and real estate investments that she and Bill Clinton made while he was Attorney General and Governor of Arkansas. 
 The White House has been besieged with questions about whether influential business people in Arkansas gave the Clintons favorable treatment on their personal investments and improperly funneled money into Mr. Clinton's 1984 gubernatorial campaign.
Mrs. Clinton initially told aides that she had turned a $1,000 commodities investment into a $100,000 profit by studying the financial news and placing trades herself.
Earlier this month, White House officials conceded that James B. Blair, a family friend and a lawyer for one of the state's largest companies, Tyson Foods Inc., had played an advisory role in placing the trades.
Today, she said she had relied heavily on the advice of Mr. Blair.
"I did the trades," she said. "They were my trades. I was responsible for them. But I did them on the advice of Jim Blair, and very often he placed them for me." [Excerpts begin on page 11.]
Mrs. Clinton said she had honestly forgotten about a $6,000 profit she made on a commodities investment in 1980 and could not recall whether commodities earnings were used to offset losses on an investment in a failed real estate development. She also said that she did not remember being notified when her commodities trading account fell below its required minimum and that she did not believe that she had ever received preferential treatment.
"I'm not in any way excusing any confusion that we have created," she said. "I think we have created it because I don't think that we gave enough time or focused enough."
Mrs. Clinton maintained that the "fundamental facts" regarding her investment in the real estate venture, the Whitewater Development Corporation, and in commodities trading had not changed. She said her recent troubles had been caused by poor efforts to remember and an initial reluctance to reveal information she considered private.
"I do feel like I've always been a fairly private person leading a public life," she said. "I've always believed in a zone of privacy. And I told a friend the other day that I feel, after resisting for a long time, I've been rezoned."
During the 70-minute news conference, called after advisers and friends convinced her that she would be her own best defender, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that she had at first opposed appointing a special prosecutor to investigate her ties to the Whitewater development.
But she said she has suffered through a learning experience in Washington. "This is not a long-term problem or issue in any way," she said. "But I don't want anybody to have the wrong impressions of either of us."
 
Decline in Popularity
 Mrs. Clinton's popularity has slid in the weeks since the White House began issuing partial and sometimes conflicting explanations about her financial activities. A Los Angeles Times poll conducted on April 16-19 found that only 44 percent of the public viewed her favorably, as opposed to the 56 percent who did in January.
White House officials said today that what Mrs. Clinton called an evolutionary process began a few weeks ago, but that the decision to respond to requests for a news conference was not made until early today.
On the Whitewater matter, Mrs. Clinton said she could not explain why her partners, James and Susan McDougal, had lost more money on the 50-50 investment than she and her husband had; she said she and her husband had simply made payments on the development as the McDougals requested them. She resisted the notion that she and her husband, who are both lawyers, should have been less passive and more involved in their investments.
 
Trusted Friend's Advice
 On the commodities trading, Mrs. Clinton said she had trusted Mr. Blair's advice because he was an old friend who knew more about the cattle market than she did. As Governor, she said, Mr. Clinton performed the wedding ceremony when Jim and Diane Blair married.
"Mr. Blair, who ended up losing money, I think would find it very hard to argue that he got any favorable treatment" from the state, Mrs. Clinton said. "I just don't think there's any evidence of that.
"I tried to educate myself because I took the responsibility seriously."
Mrs. Clinton said she had read the stock tables with her daughter, Chelsea, in the same way that her father read them with her, but she added that she relied on Mr. Blair's advice "because he really spent an enormous amount of time studying the market and talking to many more people than I ever could have, people who, you know, ran feed lots or bought beef for large supermarket chains."
Mrs. Clinton said that she was lucky to drop out of the commodities market before she lost money and that Mr. Blair had actually lost money.
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican who has been a persistent critic of the Clintons on Whitewater, said Mrs. Clinton did not answer all the questions on the matter.
"She did not adequately explain how it is that a 50-50 partnership did not require all of the partners to put up sufficient funds," he said.
Her performance today, as she sat next to an untouched glass of water and kept talking until the questions turned to health care -- her preferred topic -- pleased her supporters. It was carried live on all four television networks, while her husband's earlier news conference just down the hall, where he fielded questions about imminent military action in Bosnia, was carried live only by Cable News Network.
 
Pleased With Performance
 Mrs. Clinton's supporters in and out of the White House said they were delighted with the news conference. Lynn Cutler, a leader of a committee formed to defend Mrs. Clinton against questions about her integrity, said she was was "ecstatic" about the outcome.
"I thought she was terrific," Ms. Cutler said. "She was everything that I knew she could be. She was relaxed. She was frank and open. When she couldn't recall, she said she could not recall. She never dissembled, not once.
"It was just pure Hillary."
White House officials who spoke only on condition of anonymity, expressed similar relief and pleasure.
Aides said today that Mrs. Clinton had prepared for her appearance by consulting with both her private lawyer, David Kendall, and with Mandy Grunwald, the political consultant who acts as a media adviser for the White House.
In the course of the question-and-answer session, she invoked the influence of her parents, her commitment to her family and her desire to get Whitewater questions out of the way so that she can focus on issues like health care.
 
No Corporate Raider
 Mrs. Clinton said she was always a relatively small investor who trusted the advice of friends to take big risks and could never have been mistaken for a 1980's corporate raider.
"I think it's a pretty long stretch to say that the decisions that we made to try to create some financial security for our family and make some investments come anywhere near there," Mrs. Clinton said.
"I don't think you'll ever find anything that my husband or I said that in any way condemns the importance of making good investments and saving or that in any way undermines what is the heart and soul of the American economy, which is risk-taking and investing in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillary Rodham Clinton during her news conference in the State Dining Room of the White House. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Hillary Rodham Clinton beneath a portrait of Abraham Lincoln yesterday in the State Dining Room of the White House at a news conference on her financial dealings. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); Senator Alfonse D'Amato, Republican of New York, told reporters at the Capitol yesterday that Hillary Rodham Clinton had failed to answer all questions about the Clintons' investment in Whitewater. (Associated Press)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (68%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (68%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (68%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (68%); WHITE HOUSE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS; FINANCES, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); ZONING (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LAWYERS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (66%); ETHICS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; IFILL, GWEN; BLAIR, JAMES B; MCDOUGAL, JAMES; MCDOUGAL, SUSAN; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



542 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Managed Care Is Supermarket Medicine

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Having been told by my colleagues of the near certainty that the insurance companies have targeted New York City for conversion to managed care, I made inquiry as to the payment to the primary care doctor -- the so-called gatekeeper whose presence is essential to the plan.
The fee to this doctor is $5 to $10 a month per patient, that is, between $50 and $120 a year. His responsibility is the health of that individual, which to me means an annual evaluation and examination, 24-hour call, all hospital care and the coordination of the individual's health care. 
 I spoke to a doctor friend in the plan, a good internist, and asked how he could provide quality care for that remarkably discounted price. His answer was "I can't; they get what they pay for."
The insurance companies are generally paid an average of $3,500 by the employer who purchases the insurance. The insurance company keeps around 20 to 25 percent of the fee for profit and calls the payment for medical care its "medical loss ratio."
We as a society and the insurance company in particular don't really value our health. By comparison, a good divorce lawyer gets more than $350 an hour (just to protect our assets). An accountant gets $2,000 and up, to protect the doctor from excess taxation. The price for magnetic resonance imaging is $1,000 (at my hospital). The fee for reading it, a five-minute job, is $260.
The diagnosis of a need for reform is correct. It is a crime for 40 million people to be uninsured. The prices of prescription drugs are ridiculous. Sick people are dropped from insurance rolls because of the expense of their illness.
Good medical care cannot be rushed. Ninety percent of the diagnosis is from the history and physical examination. What good is a correct diagnosis if time is not taken to explain the need to take medication or, more important, to encourage the patient to discontinue self-destructive habits?
The insurance companies are anxious for that 8 percent of the gross national product that goes into health care.
Supermarket medicine, that is, managed care, is not the answer. The status quo cannot continue either. I suggest universal health coverage, preferably single payer (eliminate the insurance company and the bureaucracy) and preferably without an employer mandate (like most of Western Europe). If we acquiesce to managed care, we will have corporate takeover of an honorable profession. Care of the individual will suffer.
 
RICHARD B. CHERNAIK, M.D.
Bronx, April 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (50%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSURANCE (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAKEOVERS (73%); DRUG PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (51%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CHERNAIK, RICHARD B (DR)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994



543 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: April 24, 1994

 BODY:

 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 1	10	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $6.99.) Just before he kills himself, a lawyer reveals a deadly secret to an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 2	16	SCHINDLER'S LIST, by Thomas Keneally. (Touchstone/S&S, $12.) A German war profiteer rescues Jews in Nazi-occupied Poland.	 	 	 	 3	5	WHISPERS, by Belva Plain. (Dell, $6.99.) The realities that lie below the surface of an outwardly happy family.	 	 	 	 4	5	STREETS OF LAREDO, by Larry McMurtry. (Pocket, $6.99.) A Texas bounty hunter goes south of the border in pursuit of a killer.	 	 	 	 5	1	"J" IS FOR JUDGMENT, by Sue Grafton. (Fawcett, $5.99.) Kinsey Millhone on the case of a man who apparently committed suicide.	 	 	 	 6	5	HOMELAND, by John Jakes. (Bantam, $6.99.) The fortunes of a German immigrant family in late-19th-century Chicago.	 	 	 	 7	1	DECEPTION, by Amanda Quick. (Bantam, $5.99.) Romantic adventures of a young woman raising unruly nephews in Regency England.	 	 	 	 8*	4	MEXICO, by James A. Michener. (Fawcett, $6.99.) Researching his ancestry, an American journalist learns about the history of Mexico.	 	 	 	 9	1	I'LL BE SEEING YOU, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $6.50.) A television news reporter has mystifying experiences while covering a story.	 	 	 	 10	3	FOR LOVE, by Sue Miller. (Harper Paperbacks, $6.50.) An affair is renewed and the past reconsidered by people returning to their hometown.	 	 	 	 11	4	CAULDRON, by Larry Bond. (Warner, $6.50.) Economic disaster and nationalist hate groups besiege Europe; America enters World War III.	 	 	 	 12	1	PIGS IN HEAVEN, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Harper Perennial, $13.) Troubles befall a woman and her adopted Cherokee daughter.	 	 	 	 13	4	PAPER DOLL, by Robert B. Parker. (Berkley, $5.99.) Spenser tracks the killer of an upper-crust Boston woman to a South Carolina town.	 	 	 	 14	2	SPANDAU PHOENIX, by Greg Iles. (Signet, $5.99.) Intelligence agencies vie for a diary full of still-invaluable secrets about World War II.	 	 	 	 15	1	CHRISTY, by Catherine Marshall. (Avon, $5.99.) A 1967 novel about a young schoolteacher in the Tennessee hill country.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	NonFiction	 	 	 	 1	15	CARE OF THE SOUL, by Thomas Moore. (Harper Perennial, $12.) Everyday spirituality.	 	 	 	 2	546	THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone/S&S, $10.95.) Inspiration.	 	 	 	 3	4	SECRET CEREMONIES, by Deborah Laake. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) The unhappy marriages of a woman raised as a Mormon.	 	 	 	 4*	15	WHERE ANGELS WALK, by Joan Wester Anderson. (Ballantine, $10.) Stories about angelic intervention in human affairs.	 	 	 	 5	62	I KNOW WHY THE CAGED BIRD SINGS, by Maya Angelou. (Bantam, $4.99.) A memoir.	 	 	 	 6	7	CRUEL SACRIFICE, by Aphrodite Jones. (Pinnacle, $4.99.) A night of torture and murder.	 	 	 	 7	132	A YEAR IN PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) A sojourn in the south of France.	 	 	 	 8	25	THE TAO OF POOH, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, $9.) Taoism a la A.A. Milne.	 	 	 	 9	47	THE SILENT PASSAGE, by Gail Sheehy. (Pocket, $5.50.) Menopause and today's women.	 	 	 	 10	146	YOU JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.) Communicating.	 	 	 	 11	32	THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush Limbaugh. (Pocket, $6.99.) Anecdotes, opinions.	 	 	 	 12*	145	LOVE, MEDICINE, AND MIRACLES, by Bernie S. Siegel. (Harper Perennial, $12.) The importance of a patient's mind and emotions.	 	 	 	 13*	4	IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER, by Gerry Conlon. (Plume, $9.95.) An Irish rebel's memoir.	 	 	 	 14	49	TOUJOURS PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) The charms of rustic France.	 	 	 	 15*	19	THE TE OF PIGLET, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, $10.) Aspects of Taoist philosophy.	 	 	 	 16*	12	WE WERE SOLDIERS ONCE ... AND YOUNG, by Harold G. Moore and Joseph L. Galloway. (Harper Perennial, $13.) Vietnam.	 	 	 	 17*	1	RACE MATTERS, by Cornel West. (Vintage, $9.) A Princeton professor assays issues affecting black Americans.	 	 	 	 18*	18	A WORLD LIT ONLY BY FIRE, by William Manchester. (Little, Brown, $11.95.) An account of the Renaissance and the Reformation.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Advice, How-To and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 1	162	THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE, by Stephen R. Covey. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) Principles to practice in the pursuit of success.	 	 	 	 2	169	THE T-FACTOR FAT GRAM COUNTER, by Jamie Pope-Cordle and Martin Katahn. (Norton, $2.99.) How to reduce fat in one's diet.	 	 	 	 3	27	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Arlene Eisenberg, Heidi E. Murkoff and Sandee E. Hathaway. (Workman, $10.95.) Counsel for parents-to-be.	 	 	 	 4	7	MONEY DOESN'T GROW ON TREES, by Neale S. Godfrey and Carolina Edwards. (Fireside/S&S, $11.) Ways of teaching children about money.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending April 9, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 38,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (74%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (74%); GERMANY (72%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); GENEALOGY (74%); WOMEN (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); JOURNALISM (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SUICIDE (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



544 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber 

 BODY:
THE FATE OF THE ELEPHANT
By Douglas H. Chadwick. Sierra Club, $14.
Selected one of the best books of 1993 by the editors of The Times Book Review, this study examines the natural history and habitats of elephants in the regions where they dwell, from Africa and Asia to American zoos. Ultimately considering whether these animals will survive, the book is "fun to read and a splendid and much-needed introduction," Vicki Hearne said here.
PIGS IN HEAVEN
By Barbara Kingsolver. Harper Perennial, $13.
In this sequel to the author's novel "The Bean Trees," Taylor Greer, a young single mother, is confronted with the possible loss of her 6-year-old daughter, Turtle. The child, a Cherokee Indian, was taken in by Taylor after she was left, abused and neglected, on the front seat of Taylor's car; although Turtle was officially adopted, such proceedings are illegal according to the Indian Child Welfare Act if they take place without the tribe's consent. Last year our reviewer, Karen Karbo, said: "Possessed of an extravagantly gifted narrative voice," Ms. Kingsolver "blends a fierce and abiding moral vision with benevolent, concise humor. Her medicine is meant for the head, the heart and the soul -- and it goes down dangerously, blissfully, easily." 

LATINOS: A Biography of the People
By Earl Shorris. Avon, $12.50.
The author argues that Latinos are not one culture but many, and that their contributions are enriching American society despite the prejudices (both Anglo and Hispanic) that have often impeded their efforts to succeed. This history "is likely to remain unequaled in its sweep and profundity for some time," J. Jorge Klor de Alva said here in 1992. One of the darker aspects of the Latino experience -- the lure of gangs for impoverished youth -- is explored in ALWAYS RUNNING. La Vida Loca: Gang Days in L.A., by Luis J. Rodriguez (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $10). The author, a poet, traces his own descent into violence as a young Mexican immigrant in the 1960's. Last year our reviewer, Gary Soto, called his account "vivid, raw . . . even tender." Personal and ethnic history -- both Latino and Mexican -- are at the heart of TRANSLATED WOMAN: Crossing the Border With Esperanza's Story, by Ruth Behar (Beacon, $15). The author, a Cuban-American anthropologist, having intended to do a historical portrait of Mexican women, instead focuses on a contemporary Indian, a fierce peddler and reputed witch. "One is mesmerized," Nancy Scheper-Hughes said here last year.
FOR LOVE
By Sue Miller. Harper, $6.50.
Lottie Gardner, a middle-aged freelance writer, goes back to her childhood home in Cambridge, Mass., where she becomes involved in the aftermath of a tragedy that illustrates all the terrible possibilities single-minded passion can bring. Last year our reviewer, Ron Carlson, said this novel "may be the most honest 20th-century love story we've had in a while."
THE PASSION OF MICHEL FOUCAULT
By James Miller. Anchor/Doubleday, $14.95.
In a book that is neither pure biography nor criticism, the author investigates the parallels between Foucault's life and his work. He interprets the philosopher's interest in sadomasochism and self-destruction as emblematic of his intellectual preoccupations with power and transgression. "Mr. Miller succeeds in re-creating the passionate progress of an exceptional man," Isabelle de Courtivron said here last year. Also available in a new edition is Foucault's THE ORDER OF THINGS: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences (Vintage, $12), an intellectual history in which he looks at the evolving world views propounded by biology, economics and linguistics from the Renaissance to the end of the 19th century. In 1971 our reviewer, George Steiner, said, "One is left with a sense of real and original force."
THE MAN WHO WAS LATE
By Louis Begley. Fawcett Columbine, $10.
This novel by the author of "Wartime Lies" explores the alienation of a Holocaust survivor, a businessman whose immersion in a world of wealth and casual affairs threatens to destroy him. "Mr. Begley has taken a courageous risk," Eva Hoffman said here last year.
THE MOTION OF LIGHT IN WATER
Sex and Science Fiction Writing in the East Village:
1960-1965
By Samuel R. Delany. Richard Kasak/Masquerade Books, $12.95.
This memoir chronicles the author's literary and sexual awakening, describing his early marriage to the poet Marilyn Hacker and his recognition of himself as a writer and as a gay man. The book "will be of interest primarily to those who already know the many pleasures that Mr. Delany's fiction can afford," Gerald Jonas said here in 1988. Much of that fiction has also been brought back into print; Wesleyan University/University Press of New England has reissued Mr. Delany's "Return to Neveryon" series, a fictional archeology of an ancient civilization led by a former slave. In 1979 our reviewer, Mr. Jonas, characterized the first volume, TALES OF NEVERYON ($12.95), as "superb science fiction." In the second book, NEVERYONA: Or, the Tale of Signs and Cities ($14.95), Mr. Delany "continues to surprise and delight," Mr. Jonas said here in 1983. FLIGHT FROM NEVERYON ($14.95) "may be the most successfully experimental work yet from an author for whom language and story are inseparable," one reviewer said in 1985. The conclusion of the series, RETURN TO NEVERYON ($14.95), originally published as "The Bridge of Lost Desire," carries on the story of a place in which hieroglyphics are being replaced by an alphabet and dragons are an endangered species. In 1988 our reviewer, Mr. Jonas, said, "As always, Mr. Delany writes with equal ease about ideas, processes and feelings."
 LAUREL GRAEBER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%); SIERRA CLUB (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); POETRY (70%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); 

PERSON: MICHEL FOUCAULT (69%); TAYLOR GREER (68%); SAMUEL R DELANY (67%); LOUIS BEGLEY (57%); JAMES MILLER (57%); HARPER PERENNIAL (57%); BARBARA KINGSOLVER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



545 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Mangia!

BYLINE: By R. W. Apple Jr.; R. W. Apple Jr., the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times, is a director of the American Institute of Wine and Food and the author of "Apple's Europe."

 BODY:

TREASURES OF THE ITALIAN TABLE
Italy's Celebrated Foods
and the Artisans Who Make Them.
By Burton Anderson.
318 pp. New York: William Morrow & Company. $20. 
MUCH has been made in recent years of the healthiness of the Mediterranean diet, with its emphasis on fruit, vegetables, fish and olive oil. Even the habitual daily glasses of wine are said (hurrah!) to confer health benefits.
Italian cooking, the most accomplished in the region, has long been the most popular "foreign" cuisine in the United States -- not because it is healthy, but because it tastes so good. There can be few people in this country who have never eaten spaghetti; pizza rivals hamburgers as the fast food of choice, and the New American Cuisine, pioneered in California, with its pastas, salads and grilled fish and meat, has its roots firmly planted in Italian soil.
Yet in the motherland, danger stalks the rich traditions of the table, including the wonderful array of local specialties that remind us that Italy was a patchwork of duchies, monarchies and city-states until our own century. The standardizing Eurocrats in Brussels, the lure of fast food and a faster style of life, the economies of scale and the convenience of the microwave oven and the food processor are changing what Italians eat. Family farms are vanishing, to be replaced by vast spreads using chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides. Traditional processes -- and hence flavors -- have in some cases been banned in a mindless pursuit of sanitation and alimentary purity.
Now comes Burton Anderson to tell the world what it is in danger of losing. In Italy, as in France and other European nations, growers and skilled artisans remain locally (and in some cases nationally) celebrated for their produce. One of my greatest pleasures in 35 years of traveling in Europe has been the discovery of some of these -- the last artisanal maker of Cheddar in the Mendip Hills of England, a distiller of prize-winning Calvados in a picture-perfect half-timbered Norman farmhouse -- usually with the help of a friendly hotelier or restaurateur proud of local achievement.
Mr. Anderson has captured all the joy of such chases in "Treasures of the Italian Table." A journalist from Minnesota, he moved to Tuscany in 1969 and has spent the last 25 years making himself into the leading authority on Italian wines writing in English. Poking into every corner of the country, he has discovered undervalued wines in the Abruzzi and the secrets of prosciutto curing in and around Parma. His book "Vino: The Wines and Winemakers of Italy" is now the standard reference, in Italian as well as English. His new book makes no pretense to comprehensiveness, but it is packed with the lore of products like white truffles and balsamic vinegar and dishes like risotto, Florentine beefsteak and pizza.
Do not turn to Mr. Anderson to discover how to make a perfect pasta primavera; this is no cookbook a la Marcella Hazan. Do not look here for travel itineraries; Mr. Anderson says he does not want to overwhelm the artisans he describes with busloads of gastronomic tourists, although he names restaurants where regional specialities can be tasted at their very best.
Some will say that this is a specialist's book, interesting only to those bewitched by food. But that is not so, because in describing the way rice is cultivated or bread is baked, Mr. Anderson tells much about traditional Italy and how it is changing. And he paints vivid portraits of stubborn men and women for whom extracting the best products from fields and forests constitutes the "highest form of self-fulfillment: art, passion, a way of life." Few who read about them will quickly forget the cast of characters, which is worthy of Boccaccio: consider, for example, Teresio Vaschetto, the master truffle hunter, who looks like James Mason; and Giuseppe Mazza, the impish, roly-poly king of the pizza oven, and Carlo Latini, the red-haired, blue-eyed pasta maker.
Mr. Anderson brings a reporter's tenacity and a novelist's touch to his work. A researcher in grain genetics might be described routinely by many. But not here: "Cesare, with his ambling gait and serene smile, had a spiritual air about him, like a Franciscan monk who for the occasion had exchanged his frock for a short-sleeved blue Oxford shirt and neatly pressed beige cotton slacks."
The book is crammed with history. I had not known before that pizza was sold in New York as early as 1895 or that pasta came to Italy long before Marco Polo visited China. There is food lore of delicious obscurity: how balsamic vinegar is moved from one barrel to another during conditioning, from oak to chestnut and often to cherry, ash, locust, mulberry and juniper in turn; how hams are inspected with a gugia, a long needle made of horse bone; how olive trees are pruned into the shape of chalices so the sun's rays will reach into the center.
Know what calzone means? "Trouser leg," according to Mr. Anderson. Focaccia comes from the Latin focus, meaning "hearth." Extra-virgin olive oil -- the only product to "transcend a state which in mortals is considered absolute" -- must by law be cold-extracted by rollers (no chemicals) and contain less than 1 percent oleic acid. Mr. Anderson will tell you all about espresso, too, from a list of the countries where the best coffee beans grow to the story of Achille Gaggia, the Milanese who perfected the espresso machine.
He may irritate you with his too frequent use of untranslated, unfamiliar Italian words, such as intenditori ("connoisseurs") and merenda ("light meal" or "snack"). But I'll wager that he'll win you with his fond, uncondescending descriptions of his friends among the contadini, the often secretive countrymen who struggle against mass production, and with his lyrical accounts of the good things they make as others pursue the "dreary dream" of a Europe of "homogenized tastes."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TREASURES OF THE ITALIAN TABLE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (72%); ENGLAND (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (72%); ENGLAND (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WINE (89%); WINERIES (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); PESTICIDES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); DISTILLERIES (66%); FAMILY FARMS (65%); HERBICIDES (65%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; ANDERSON, BURTON BURTON ANDERSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



546 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: My Search for Donna Delbert

BYLINE: By Teller; Teller is the smaller, quieter half of Penn and Teller, the noir comedy magic duo. This is an excerpt from a work in progress, "No Bunnies: The Dark Side of Magic."

 BODY:
"HAVE I GOT A woman for you!" Bob Lund announced with a procurer's wink, and heaved an apple box labeled "Donna Delbert" onto his kitchen table. His wife, Elaine, set out a pot of decaffeinated tea with some slices of poppy seed cake and said apologetically that she and Bob had to go "over to the museum to wait for the man to read the gas meter." Now, Bob and Elaine really do own a museum -- the American Museum of Magic, in Marshall, Mich. -- specializing in all the magicians who were not Houdini, but I bet Elaine was lying about the gas man; Marshall is the kind of blueberry pie town where the gas company trusts you to read your own. No, they were leaving me alone with Donna Delbert's apple box because they knew I would fall for her, and l'amour is a private thing.
When they were gone, I opened the box. I like touching personal things that belonged to the dead, things I have no right to touch. As the snow began to fall outside the Lunds' kitchen, I read Donna's letters, stroked her dainty gloves and sniffed the torches she ate fire from. Then, in an advertising photo, I saw her for the first time, peering from her own plump shadow, her vampire lips in a coy half-smirk under plucked, painted eyebrows. She was my kind of woman, a creature of the night. 
 She had been notorious. Her sultry mug had graced the pages of glossy rags from Sir! to Time. Rumored to be the American widow of a British tank gunner killed in the Normandy invasion, she appeared suddenly on the English music hall circuit shortly after World War II, calling herself "America's Outstanding Lady Magician and the Only Lady Fire-Eater in the World." Agents booked her at once. A Yankee dame to the tips of her long red fingernails, she conjured, sucked the flames from torches and snuffed candles with a crack of her whip. She was the perfect postwar woman, the Rosie the Riveter of magic.
Then, as I learned from her clippings, one spring midnight in 1949 she was having a late supper at her boardinghouse in Newcastle-upon-Tyne when a detective inspector appeared, saying he believed she was a fugitive in disguise. Donna went silent and shook her head no. The inspector searched her purse and found a pass card and Army Registration Certificate for a soldier missing from the United States Army Air Force. Hours later at the police station, in a voice an octave below her usual contralto, she confessed: she was that missing soldier, Delbert Hill, a male Pfc. gone AWOL from the U.S.A.F. He had been living as a lady fire-eater for four years and had fooled everybody except the two women who were his lovers. Unfortunately, jealous Betty got wind of rival Edna and blew the whistle on their cheating heartthrob.
The Air Force took away Delbert's falsies, cut his brunet curls and sentenced him to two years' hard labor. Sleazy reporters showed up to sneer, but he basked in the attention. He bragged to them how he had shocked the judges by swallowing lighted cigarettes. When they asked what he would miss most in prison, he replied without skipping a beat: "My corset. I can do without my high-heeled shoes, but when you wear a corset for almost four years, you get kind of used to it. That's why I'm looking fat today." He was shameless and they loved him for it. "It won't be so bad in the clink," he said with a shrug. "I'm going to write a book on my years as a woman. That will show them." In his diary, Delbert summarized his trial: "Like Hollywood premiere. Plenty cameras and reporters." Warhol would have worshiped him.
Transvestism is boringly popular in the 1990's: "Mrs. Doubtfire" pulls in $27.6 million its first weekend; Divine receives a reverent obit in The Times; Johnny Depp snaps up the movie role of sweater girl Ed Wood. But Delbert was more than a crossover cross-dresser -- he was a nut who pulled off a "Mission Impossible" high-stakes ultradrag, a magic trick on a hostile Government.
He had been sent to Britain in 1942 as an entertainer in the Air Force Special Service. In those days he did his act in a soldier's uniform, but that didn't stop him from making headlines. He was in the middle of his act in a London theater when an air-raid siren screamed. According to a July 1944 Philadelphia Evening Bulletin article:
"While bombs fell outside and shook the building, Hill went right on thrusting a fiery torch down his throat to keep the attention of an audience on the verge of panic. A fellow soldier emerged from the wings with a G.I. helmet and clomped it down on Hill's head. It was too large and covered Hill's eyes, but he went on with the routine. Flames gushed from his lips and smoke crept all around the helmet. The children screamed with delight at the ludicrous sight and their mirth spread to the adults."
There are those who would be abashed to have their heads on fire in public. Not Delbert. He was a star and wasn't about to let anybody, least of all Hitler, disrupt his act. Queen Mary the Queen Mother chose him for a command performance on the fourth of July to honor his coolness under fire.
After the war ended in Europe, he learned that the bureaucracy had classified him out of Special Service and reassigned him as latrine orderly. Stars do not scrub toilets. So he collected his paycheck, got stinking drunk and ran away to adventure.
Running away is a good thing. I recommend it. Twenty years ago I was a respectable high-school Latin teacher, apt to suffer the fantods as I noticed September approaching. I ran away, and now I earn my living producing roaches from top hats and trading wounds with a large man in red shoes. It's insecure and disreputable, but each fall when I hear the cheerful chant "Back to School!" and think of getting up at 5 A.M. to grade papers, something inside me does a little dance. So I root for Delbert.
He was now a hunted man with a near compulsion to stand in the spotlight and make a spectacle of himself. But the same lack of shame that let him flambe his head and become a hero came to his rescue. In his Air Force shows, he had appeared in comedy sketches in a grass skirt and halter top as "Dirty Gerti From Bizerti." With his plump little shape, he had considerable 1940's sex appeal. Female magicians are rare -- few women want to join a fraternity that uses them as decorative props to be sawed into bits -- so as Donna Delbert, ex-Private Hill was prepared to corner the market.
Doing the act was easy, but life offstage was trickier. By calling himself the wife of a tank gunner killed at Normandy, he sidestepped dating; no decent man would hit on a patriotic widow. One season he was unemployed (which he grandly termed "resting") and took a job packing tobacco at the Lambert and Butler factory, as, of course, Donna, in nylons and stuffed bra. Some thought him a bit unladylike -- apt to dispatch a pint and demolish a cheese sandwich with manly relish -- and some suspected he was a lesbian. But that was a good cover when, after two years of celibacy as Donna, he fell for pretty Betty in an Islington theater bar.
They had been girlfriends for a month when, according to Betty: "Donna asked me if I would like to share digs. I agreed. I watched her unpack. Donna had exquisite transparent cami-knickers, little lace panties, corsets, lots of nylons. We talked for a time, then Donna gave me my first shock. She asked, 'Would you mind if I smoked a pipe?' Later that evening I learned the truth. From that moment we led a strange life. Always in public he wore his long, black hair in smart feminine styles, but when we were on our own, he would fasten back his locks with an elastic band and sometimes even pencil in a moustache. It was only when we had a lovers' quarrel that he used his normal, deep man's voice. Other girls never guessed." She was right. Even Irene, who assisted Donna for 15 months and often shared the same bed, didn't have a clue.
BY THE TIME BOB AND Elaine Lund got back from their rendezvous with the mythical meter man, I had Donna spread all over the kitchen table and had missed my flight home to New York. "We'll get you a room down at the motel," said Bob. "Don't worry. I know. Donna gets under your skin. Donna will drive you nuts."
The next day Elaine had fresh muffins and an assortment of fruity teas for me, and I had just opened an envelope full of papers from after Delbert's arrest when I noticed Bob looking over my shoulder. "You know," he said, "the Donna Delberts are what my museum" -- Bob always accents the first syllable -- "is really about. They wear capes or tights or clerical collars and dub themselves Doc or Princess. They're innocents; the last of the innocents of the world. Deep down they suspect that if they pitch the sugar water with the right spiel, they just might end up curing cancer. They think there's real magic."
A mimeographed prison newsletter showed that even in jail the magic of shamelessness still worked: Delbert had used his fame as Donna (and, of course, his celebrated performance before the Queen Mother) to book himself a star slot on the inmate talent show, "A Musical Roundup." His reviews were socko. Hungry for the latest show-biz gossip, he wrote to the Performer, the British equivalent of Variety, told the whole truth about his years as Donna Delbert and invited his music hall cronies to get in touch. Would these people resent being lied to for four years? Would they despise him for being a deviate and a deserter?
An inch-high stack of letters was the answer. His theatrical pals praised him for fooling them, and tried to cheer him up: "If you are finished with your breast pads & nylons, my mum says don't forget her. Ha, ha, ha." They extended invitations: "You will be sure of a warm welcome whether you come as Donna Delbert or Private Hill." Agents congratulated him on his great publicity stunt. All the letters were upbeat, except the telegram from Edna, Betty's rival from Newcastle. She wrote, "BROKENHEARTED WILL WAIT 20 YEARS I LOVE YOU SO."
Near the bottom of the apple box there was a datebook for 1952, showing that after jail, Delbert went home to Philadelphia and was back doing his act for all the wildlife in the show-biz jungle: Lions, Elks, Moose, legionnaires and Boy Scouts. He evaluated the reception of each performance -- a New Jersey mental home, for example, was "better than some so-called normal audiences. The lads loved the show and I loved to do it." He was still a star.
At some shows he was Col. Don Q, a Buffalo Bill-esque Old West magician with a crepe-hair goatee, but a tear sheet from the Magicians listings in the Philadelphia Yellow Pages showed that his years in Britain had not been wasted. It advertised:
 
DELBERT, DONNA
The Celebrated English
Magician & Fire-Eater
Strangely, one thing was missing from the apple box: evidence of Delbert's death. I began to wonder -- could Delbert Hill still be alive? Bob didn't know. "I think he must be dead. Nobody in show business gives away stuff like this," he said, pointing to the box. "But if you ever find out, let me know. . . ."
In his dry, understated way, Bob is almost as shameless as Delbert Hill.
"OH-HO-HO! SURE, I KNEW DELBERT. YOU never knew whether you were going to meet him as a man or a woman."
I was on the phone to Harry, the Philadelphia magician who taught me how to squeeze a navy bean through my sinuses and out my eye.
"I loved him, but then, I love oddballs. I remember he had all sorts of jobs -- one summer he went around selling ice cream from a backpack." What was Donna like? "A classy middle-aged woman, with excellent taste in clothes. Had dinner at our house and completely fooled my dear wife. But when he was a man, boy, did he have a mouth on him. Try calling Ed at the Magic Fun Shop."
"Hmmph," said Ed, who long ago sold my parents a crucial magic kit. "Oh, I knew Delbert. Worked for me for a while until I found him becoming a partner, if you know what I mean. Last I heard of him he had some kind of restaurant on South Street."
"You mean the one next door to the tailor shop? Awful food? Only lasted a few months?" recalled Paul at Factotum Books on South Street. "I think it was called Del's Diner."
The tailor was sitting at an ancient sewing machine in his shop. He snipped a thread and raised his cropped white head. "Delbert Hill," he pronounced in a tone of biblical finality, "is dead."
So I called my pal Frank, the lawyer-novelist who is either related to or knows intimately every 10th human being in Philadelphia, who called his brother-in-law Steve the magic fan/undertaker, who called the Pennsylvania Division of Vital Statistics, which led me to two hospital workers, Vickie and Paula.
"Mr. Hill charmed everyone at the hospital," said Paula, a social worker who met Delbert during his last bout with cancer. "He got through his illness on his wit. I offered to help, but he was extremely independent and said, 'When puppies get sick, they just go off by themselves; then they either get better or they die.' And whenever I'd say something sympathetic, he would just laugh and say, 'Don't worry about me. I'm a soldier.' "
Vickie remembered that Delbert used to come over to Graduate Hospital on South Street, eat in the cafeteria and tell stories of life on the stage. "He had a clear, rosy complexion and a casual way about him. His apartment was full of magic and circus stuff -- to be honest, he really didn't keep the place up -- and he had a story for every poster. There were lots of women's clothes in his closets; he said they belonged to his girlfriend."
On Jan. 10, 1991, Vickie found him, 77 years old, dehydrated and dying in a chair surrounded by the memorabilia of his triumphs. He had refused to plan his burial or reveal anything about his next of kin. So he made his final exit through an unmarked grave. "You know," said Vickie, "Mr. Hill told us he once performed for the Queen of England. Do you suppose that was true?"
I told Bob and Elaine what I had unearthed in eight months of amateur sleuthing and handed Bob the last item for his Donna Delbert file: a handsome gray death certificate. Bob thanked me.
"You're one of them, too, you know," he said, pointing at the dining table laden with envelopes full of his "innocents." "I've already got a file started on you."
That means someday I'll be in an apple box, side by side with a transvestite fire-eater. I'm guessing I'll feel right at home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teller, mesmerized by the effects of the long-gone magician. (JON MURESAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 44); Opposite: The many faces of Donna -- in a grass skirt as "Dirty Girti from Bizerti," during World War II; "The Lady Fire-Eater"; daytime dress; nighttime glamour. (THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF MAGIC.)(pg. 45); Delbert in a crepe-hair goatee as Col. Don Q, an Old West-style magician, in the 1950's. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF MAGIC)(pg. 46); The last known picture of the magician. "When he was a man, boy, did he have a mouth on him." (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF MAGIC)(pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: SA F E NAMIBIA LTD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MAGIC AND MAGICIANS; MISSING PERSONS; TRANSVESTITISM; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ARMIES (87%); WORLD WAR II (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FLOW SENSORS (71%); AIR FORCES (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%); MISSING PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: TELLER (PERFORMER); DELBERT, DONNA (DELBERT HILL) DONNA DELBERT (94%); DELBERT HILL (64%); BOB LUND (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



547 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 43; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: The Havana Hat Trick

BYLINE: By Daisann McLane; Daisann McLane writes about Caribbean culture.

 BODY:
SOMBREROS DE FIESTA," REPLIED ONE OF THE HAT LADIES WITH A smile and a wink when I asked her to explain why she'd fastened 18 pairs of dime store earrings, several faux sunflowers and eight plastic beaded hair clips to her straw boater. Since this was my first Miami-Havana voyage, I figured that the party hats were a Cuban style statement, a badge of the cosmopolitan similar to the American college insignia T-shirts worn in pre-glasnost Eastern Europe. But in Cuba, I didn't see a single person wearing a sombrero de fiesta. After customs, these collisions of Cuban baroque and Woolworth's bricolage evaporate instantly, like Cinderella's finery.
My second trip down, a lady in a sequinned bonnet let me in on the hat trick: Charter companies flying the jam-packed Miami-Havana run impose a baggage limit of 44 pounds per person. But they cannot set a limit on how much the passenger weighs. So Cubans and Cuban-Americans load themselves with whatever won't fit into the regulation duffel bag: socks, jeans, underwear, shirts worn in layers. Packages of rice, coffee, flour stuffed into the linings of crinolines; rolls of United States dollars pinned into pockets. And, to top it off, the hats, lovingly bedecked with little gifts for family and friends. 
 Incredible stories abound: There was the women whose hat was confiscated only to reveal her hair rolled up in sausages; the woman who marched up, ticket in hand, wearing a helmet made from a pressure cooker. I first dismissed these as Caribbean tall tales, but then I saw a woman with a colander dangling from the brim of her Miami Dolphins cap.
"This is not fashion; this is necessity," a Cuban-American woman said as she sent her mother back home to a Havana that is shrinking daily on a ration of five pounds of rice a month and little else. Cuba's economy, buffetted by the end of the Soviet Union's subsidies and the United States embargo, is at crisis point. These flights represent a trickle of relief for Cubans lucky enough to have family abroad. Even so, the flights are controversial in the politicized Cuban-American community. But while husbands and fathers debate whether bringing goods to needy relatives represents "traitorous" support of Castro, their wives, sisters and daughters pack their bags, and themselves, and put on their hats. Like modern galleons, bursting with small treasures from Taiwan and Hong Kong, they sail majestically across a gulf of politics, machismo and pride.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pearl hair clips pinned around a brim turn a hat into a Cuban wedding cake that will be deconstructed and shared by relatives in Havana. Top right: "I always make a hat when I go," says Saturnina H. of Fairfield, Conn., who's made the journey between Miami and Havana four times. Bottom left: Returning home to Matanzas, Cuba from a visit with her family, Elida U. laughs and punches her "breasts": "They're not mine!" Bottom right: The trip is an occasion, and the hats commemorate a moment as memorable as a birthday or baptism. Giant Latin party stores like Fabulous Diamonds in Hialeah, Fla., sell the lace, buttons, bows and ribbons that spread giddily across the hats made by women like this seamstress. Estrellita P. and her sister made this pearl-encrusted hat in two hours; then they stayed up all night packing for Estrellita's return to Havana. Estrellita's 33-day visit was her first reunion with her sister in 30 years. (Photographs by Karen Kuehn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (57%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHARTER COS INC (69%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); CUBA; CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (57%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; APPAREL; HATS AND CAPS HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); AIRLINES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: MCLANE, DAISANN

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



548 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT MEN;
My Conversation

BYLINE: By STEVEN BARBOZA; Steven Barboza, who lives in Manhattan, is the author of "American Jihad: Islam After Malcolm X."

 BODY:
My abandonment of Roman Catholicism was spawned by a premature death, my mother's at age 49, on the day before my 22d birthday. I prayed like crazy for God to spare her, and when He did not, I established a new line of communication. I called God Allah and prayed with my palms cupped (to catch blessings) and my eyes wide open (to keep Allah's creations in sight).
Given the irony and absurdity of events in racially torn Boston, where I lived, Islam was a godsend. A few months after my mother's death, whites assaulted a black man in front of Boston City Hall, using as one weapon a flagpole with an American flag attached. With that attack and my mother's death, a lifetime of frustrations reached the breaking point. 
 My odyssey 20 years ago was not unlike that of hundreds of thousands of blacks in the United States. The journey became my jihad -- literally "struggle" -- waged not for political power or economic enfranchisement, but for control over my own soul.
Then as now, in the Roxburys and Harlems across America, only liquor stores outnumbered churches in vying for blacks' attention, and in my opinion, both stupefied millions of black Americans.
Islam, as I was familiar with it, seemed the perfect way to fight back. As a religion, it offered clear-cut guidelines for living; as a social movement, it stood for a pride born of culture and discipline.
Before my mom died, I had dipped into Malcolm X's autobiography. After she passed, I plunged into it. Malcolm had undergone a metamorphosis: from hoodlum to cleaned-up spokesman for the Nation of Islam and finally a convert to orthodox Islam, and through his own transformation he had shown that change, even from the most miserable beginnings, was possible.
Of course, Malcolm's life and mine were very different. He had discovered Islam in prison. I discovered it in college. He was the spokesman for a black theocratic visionary. I held down a midlevel white-collar job in a Fortune 500 company. Still, I felt a kinship with Malcolm and the Black Muslims. The color of our skin made us all cargo in a sinking ship, and Islam beckoned like a life preserver.
Two decades ago in Boston and New York, however, there were few orthodox mosques. In black neighborhoods, one institution, the Nation of Islam, dominated in the teaching of Islam, or, rather, a homegrown version of it. Many blacks who converted took to the Nation's teachings -- its admonitions to self-love and racial solidarity; its belief in productivity and entrepreneurship. And with equal ardor, they also took to the Nation's other teachings -- its racial chauvinism, and belief that white people were genetically inferior, intrinsically evil "blue-eyed devils" who had been created to practice "tricknology" against blacks.
Using the twin motivators of myth and pride, Elijah Muhammad built the Nation into one of the largest black economic and religious organizations America had seen. It claimed a heavyweight boxing champion the whole world adored, Muhammad Ali. Its women looked like angels in their veils, crisp jackets and ankle-length skirts; its men cut no-nonsense yet gallant figures in their smart dark suits and trademark bow ties.
But sitting in the Nation's Roxbury temple was like being on a jury listening to a closing argument. The defendants (in absentia): white folks. The prosecutor: a dapper minister who practically spat, saying whites were so utterly devilish that their religion was grotesquely symbolized by a "symbol of death and destruction" -- the crucifix. The charge: perpetrating dastardly deeds on blacks "in the name of Christianity." The verdict: guilty.
I barely lasted my one visit. To me, demonizing the "enemy" as the Nation did hardly seemed the best way to learn to "love thyself." Anyway, I abhorred the idea of colorizing God, or limiting godly attributes to one race. And though Elijah deserved credit for redeeming legions of blacks from dope and crime when all else, including Christianity, had failed them, I didn't believe that earned him the title of Allah's "messenger."
So I moved to New York and became an orthodox Muslim in the manner all converts do: I declared before Muslim witnesses my belief in Allah and my faith that the Prophet Muhammad of Arabia was His very last messenger. I entered a Sunni mosque and prostrated myself on rugs beside people of all ethnicities.
Here was what I deemed a truer Islam -- the orthodoxy to which Malcolm had switched, the one most of Elijah's followers opted for when the Nation of Islam waned after his death, the Islam to which most of America's 135,000 annual converts, 80 to 90 percent of them black, belong.
Questions, however, persisted. For example: Why didn't we blame Arabs for their ancestors' role in slave trading the way we blamed white Americans and Europeans? One answer is that mistreatment of slaves is specifically prohibited by Islamic law, and the vast majority of Muslims living during the slave trade era observed that law. The children of female slaves and free men would assume the social status of the father, unlike the children of American slave owners. And while the children of two slaves remained slaves, Islamic law encouraged manumission.
And why did so many black Americans revere the Middle East as if it were their homeland? On a plane to Senegal, sitting next to a black American wearing a traditional Arab robe, I got an inkling of the answer. The man was headed to meet an imam, his spiritual leader, a black African Muslim. I later met other black Americans who had spent years in Africa studying Islam. Through research, I found that up to 35 percent of enslaved blacks brought to the New World were Muslim. In converting, many black Americans may have been simply returning to the religion of their forefathers.
Over the years, I have come to understand what should have been obvious long ago -- that Jesus had not forsaken my mother. She died because God had willed it, regardless of what form my prayers took.
And I hadn't rejected Christianity so much as embraced Islam. Malcolm X's struggle -- and Mom's death -- had been Allah's instruments for my conversion. After all, Allah, it is said, makes Muslims by whatever means He sees fit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT MEN (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATION OF ISLAM BOSTON CITY HALL (63%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM NATION OF ISLAM (59%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; BLACKS (IN US) RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (51%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, STEVEN ELIJAH MUHAMMAD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



549 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Florida Reviving Efforts To Legalize Gambling

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
LESS than a decade after Florida voters resoundingly defeated a proposal to bring casino gambling to the state, a coalition of hoteliers, cruise ship operators and race track owners is trying again. Seizing on fears that a recent widely publicized series of killings of tourists here, combined with the advance of gaming in other states, might encourage visitors to go elsewhere, they have begun a well-organized and lavishly financed effort to have the issue placed on the ballot in November.
The most sweeping of the four proposals being floated is endorsed by the Florida Hotel and Motel Association and would grant each of the state's 67 counties the right to choose among any combination of freestanding casinos and casinos in hotels, riverboats and parimutuel facilities. The campaign to pass a constitutional amendment authorizing gaming picked up momentum after the Florida Legislature defeated similar legislation during its annual 60-day session, which ended earlier this month. But supporters are heartened by a recent statewide poll that found that a majority of Florida residents currently favor some form of gaming. 
 In the eight years since voters rejected legalized gambling by a 2-to-1 margin, numerous states, including nearby Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, have authorized the operation of casinos on riverboats or Indian reservations or in designated gaming zones. In addition, casino operators in Las Vegas, hoping to change their image and widen their tourist base, have opened several huge hotel complexes that include the sort of family-oriented attractions that are traditionally the backbone of Florida's $31-billion-a-year tourism industry.
"Just look at what Las Vegas is doing, building casinos around theme parks," said Michael Levine, spokesman for the hotel-backed proposal. "We have the weather and the beaches, but we are losing out because we don't have gaming." Other backers of casino gambling say they worry about competition from a post-Castro Cuba and about Florida's image as one of the nation's most crime-ridden states.
"Our reputation in reference to crime is not what we would like it to be," said Alberto Gutman, a State Senator from Miami who sponsored two gaming bills that failed this year. "Florida has all the ingredients to make it the top tourist attraction, but in order to keep that position firm and strong, we need to use every tool available, and that includes casino gambling."
The gaming drive is opposed, however, by Lawton Chiles, the Governor of Florida, and various local officials and religious groups. Mr. Chiles, who is running for a second term this year, "believes that Florida's future is about more than a roll of the dice or the spin of a roulette wheel," his spokesman, Ron Sachs, said in February. "He is committed to the kind of wholesome economic development that generates skilled, high-paying jobs."
Several of the proposed amendments envision some sort of freestanding "megacasino" in the tourist mecca of Miami Beach, but that city's Mayor, Seymour Gelber, said he is not interested. "The thought of 500 buses a day coming down from Disney World to get to the slot machines is frightening," said Mr. Gelber. "It would destroy everything that we have ever built here.
"Nobody is looking on us as a place where people live and work and enjoy the ordinary things of life," Mr. Gelber said. "We're not a gambling factory like Las Vegas, and we're not Atlantic City or some town on the Mississippi. We are a thriving city and tourist destination, and we want to attract assets that conform to our style of life here."
It is too early to tell how many of the proposed constitutional amendments will qualify for the ballot. Backers of the various proposals have already begun circulating petitions; they have until Aug. 9 to get the signatures of 430,000 registered voters. Gambling opponents, on the other hand, are much less organized, and two of the main leaders of the 1986 anti-gambling effort have said they plan to sit out this year's dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS; CASINOS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; NYTRAVEL; ELECTIONS CASINOS (94%); GAMING (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LODGING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NEW ISSUES (76%); FAMILY TRAVEL (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); LOBBYING (58%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



550 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Styles of The Times 

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: Got a Minute?

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER 

 BODY:
Call it idle time, relaxation, daydreaming, procrastination, lollygagging or just goofing off -- the hallowed tradition of dodging work for no particular reason other than "to be" may be an endangered pastime.
True idleness, as opposed to goal-directed recreation like skiing or tennis, might be defined as those little windows of solitude in busy days that allow minds to wander the highways of imagination with no specific destination in mind. Psychologists and sociologists who study the use of leisure time say that these unstructured moments, like taking a walk, gazing out the window or sitting on a park bench, are emotionally vital because they help people sort out life's complications, generate creative ideas or simply regenerate. 
 "People have been agonizing about the question of leisure since ancient times," said Prof. Witold Rybczynski, an architect, social historian at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of "Waiting for the Weekend" (Viking, 1991). "The difference today is that there are so many more distractions; we have to decide when not to use them to keep in balance."
The chirp of a cellular phone, breaking one's concentration, like a car alarm in the middle of the night, is as familiar these days as a laptop computer's converting an airplane seat into an office. But more and more, the symbols of this electronic age are turning up in unexpected places, simultaneously thrashing tranquillity and shattering solitude.
"I was just skiing in Vail and they were offering cellular phones and pagers to use on the ski lift," said David Michonski, who manages estate offices in Greenwich, Conn. Many rental cars now come with cellular phones; hand-held radio transmitters allow access to computer E-mail from anywhere, and the Internet, the vast web of computer networks, links users with volumes of information that were previously accessible only from an office.
Of course, popular culture has embraced these props of contemporary life. Stylized cellular phone cases are now common. The bouncy, repetitive dance music called techno plays off the new technology. And the audience at the Betsey Johnson collection at the recent fashion shows in New York was treated to the sight of models holding cellular phones and wearing beepers and headbands with antennae. The portion of the audience that was watching, that is. Many were busy at the time, themselves talking on cellular phones.
But even as society accepts the new technology, many people are developing strategies for unplugging themselves, hoping to restore a measure of control over their time, even a fleeting sense of isolation.
The explosion in communications technology has made it possible, indeed compelling, to work just about anywhere.
Social scientists suggest that devices like the pocket-size portable phone not only rob people of the security of isolated moments but also can make them unwitting prisoners of their homes-turned-offices.
David Farber, Moore Professor of Telecommunications at the University of Pennsylvania, laments the loss of one childhood joy known to anyone who grew up in cold-weather regions: the snow day. "We had a blizzard this year out in the countryside where I live, and nobody could get out," he said. "A lot of other faculty stayed home and relaxed, reading or whatever, but I was connected to the office with the computer and worked all day."
Professor Farber added that after the San Francisco earthquake in 1989 many people who were cut off from their offices wound up working from home via computers even before they had a chance to sweep up all the broken glass.
So what's wrong with ultra-efficiency? Nothing, experts say, if the time saved is used for restorative relaxation.
"Proper relaxation is a must for keeping the level of stress in our lives down," said Peter G. Hanson in his book, "Stress for Success" (Doubleday, 1989). He added that the key to a balanced life is compartmentalizing work and leisure. "If you don't close the door to your work compartment," he said, "it spills over into other areas of your life, making it hard to give anything your full attention -- particularly leisure."
Individuals interviewed agree that the potential solution to intrusive technology is our ability to choose not to use it sometimes. That's easy enough to say, but as researchers have found over the years, good technology has an irresistible seduction.
"I love to use my little pocket computer; I have fun programming my cellular phone," said Jerry Kravat, a music agent in Manhattan who is rarely farther than arm's length from some form of electronic communication.
A backlash to this overstimulation is surfacing in some unlikely places.
"I recently read about a large Japanese company that has instituted a 'no communications' hour between 9 A.M. and 10 A.M.," said Juliet Schor, a senior lecturer on economics at Harvard University, who specializes in women in the workplace. "That means no phone calls, no faxes, even from the president of the company. And they are finding that this is the most productive time of the day for employees."
The unexpected popularity of MTV's "Unplugged," in which rock stars perform without electrified instruments or special effects, also hints at a back-to-basics attitude among many fans of popular music.
"This flies in the face of all the high technology that made MTV possible in the first place," said John Cannelli, the network's senior vice president for music and talent. "We wanted to give viewers a little release and escape from the fast pace."
Individuals have their own strategies, too.
"This new technology is riding us; we are not riding it," said Peggy Noonan, an author and a former speechwriter for President Ronald Reagan. "Because we can be in touch instantly, we feel that we must be in touch instantly. I know people who think they must fax me directions to a meeting that is three weeks away!" This behavior is the 1990's extension of what E. B. White 40 years ago called "the intrusive urgency of the telephone."
Ms. Noonan, a single mother, said that she deliberately plans "ambling, pointless weekends" without computers and faxes so that she and her son can talk and be close. "Sometimes I feel guilty that he is not ice-skating and going to the symphony every weekend," she said. "But this makes us happy. Some people have minds that require loose, pointless daydream time."
Mr. Michonski in Connecticut said he saw the dangers of instant communication several years ago and planned his family life to circumvent them. Although he has three incoming phone lines at home, one exclusively for work, the tape machine answers in the evening. Mr. Michonski also schedules "downtime" in his daily appointment book along with business meetings to remind him to take time for himself and his family.
"It might lack spontaneity, but I had to do it," he said.
Mr. Michonski fondly recalled time that his father always put aside for his family: "Every Sunday when I was a kid in Massachusetts, my parents would pile me and my sister into the car and my father would drive. We never knew where we were going; it was downtime for the family -- time to sit in the back and fight with my sister, time to talk with our parents. That was great, and I don't want my children to miss experiences like that because I'm working at home."
Bruce Stark, a computer consultant in Manhattan, is also adamant about preventing gadgets from consuming his life. "I answer the phone and fax until 9 P.M.," he said. "Then, it's private time. On weekends I cannot be beeped -- but I check messages from time to time."
Mr. Stark estimates that of the hundreds of clients he works with annually, 40 percent to 50 percent are "consumed by the technology," unable to separate it from their personal lives.
"I need time for my soul," he added. "Some people haven't learned yet."
This sort of high-tech living, experts say, is still largely an urban, white-collar phenomenon. But as computers, cellular phones and the like descend in price and a computer-savvy generation emerges, these devices are expected to become commonplace. For a glimpse of the future, computer scientists say, walk down a street in Hong Kong today. Everyone, it seems, from bank officers to waiters, is barking into a portable phone. If only researchers could find out what they are saying with such urgency.
To be sure, communications wizardry has many positive effects: increased mobility, freedom from confinement in offices, the ability to screen phone calls rather than jump up and answer every one. And for all its ability to depersonalize communication, it can also bring people closer.
"I have a 23-year-old son living in Europe," said Professor Farber of the University of Pennsylvania. "Every time he sneezes, I get E-mail from him. Actually it's nice."
Professor Farber summarized the belief of many who study the phenomenon of work versus leisure: "These devices provide an opportunity for overworking, not a mandate. Workaholics have existed forever, with or without machines."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Besty Johnson's show featured models with cellular phones and antennae. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH SYSTEM (61%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEISURE; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); SKIING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (66%); MUSIC GENRES (63%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (63%); MUSIC (63%); FASHION SHOWS (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN DAVID FARBER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



551 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: Taking City Planning in a New Direction

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
UNMISTAKABLY sharp-edged on issues like crime and education, the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani cannot be so easily defined when it comes to land use. There are some civic leaders, indeed, who say they have yet to see any planning policy at all coming from City Hall.
In part, that is because the administration is still young and has been preoccupied with a number of issues it inherited, like the fate of the New York Coliseum site on Columbus Circle or the future of the Melrose Commons urban renewal area in the South Bronx. 
 However, it may also foretell the Giuliani administration's preference for laissez faire, for getting government out of the way and allowing the private market to determine what gets built -- and when and where -- rather than drafting ever more guidelines, regulations and criteria.
Joseph B. Rose, the 34-year-old chairman of the City Planning Commission and director of the City Planning Department, said his goal "is to reinvent City Planning as a user-friendly agency, a customer-oriented service agency, as opposed to an oversight body."
Mr. Rose said he hoped housing production would at least double during the Giuliani administration, something city planners could abet by rezoning manufacturing districts for residential development and by pruning rules that tightly govern the layout of certain apartment buildings.
"No one is looking to unravel necessary and appropriate community protections," Mr. Rose said, "but there is no question that this is an administration that is sympathetic to the role of development in the economy."
Meanwhile, the Mayor is still assembling his land-use team. (This is not unprecedented; it took Mayor David N. Dinkins three months to appoint his planning chairman, Richard L. Schaffer.) For example, Mr. Giuliani has yet to either replace or reappoint Laurie Beckelman as chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission.
The Mayor currently controls only one vote -- the chairman's -- on the 13-member City Planning Commission. Because of the way terms are staggered, Mr. Giuliani will not be able to appoint a majority of commission members until the summer of 1997.
And it was not until mid-March that the Mayor named Clay Lifflander as president of the Economic Development Corporation. On the same day, he named Richard D. Parsons, chairman and chief executive of Dime Savings Bank of New York, as chairman of the corporation.
Before joining government, Mr. Lifflander, 31, specialized in mergers and acquisitions as managing director of Smith Barney Shearson's corporate finance division.
"THE fact that I come from the corporate side means that I bring a new dimension vis-a-vis the business community and corporate recruitment potential," Mr. Lifflander said.
"I'm hellbent for leather to get proactive with corporate retention and attraction," he said. "I'm already pitching one company in the food business which is considering locating a manufacturing plant. We'll bury our egos and not take a headquarters. We'll take a manufacturing plant any day of the week, with its jobs."
Mr. Lifflander's background also prepares him for another important facet of his new job, he said, and that is "getting the city out of the asset-management business."
As a "perfect example," he cited the recent sale for $1 of eight city-owned industrial buildings in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn to the Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center for use by furniture makers, artisans and other small businesses. Some tenants have been there since 1972, when the property was seized for nonpayment of taxes.
"These guys are up and running," Mr. Lifflander said. "They've already done a lot themselves. They can be more successful without us." But he added: "It's not total altruism. If you sell them a building, it goes back on the tax rolls."
"This whole privatization concept has taken on scary dimensions and misunderstandings," Mr. Lifflander said. "I consider it optimizing. It's trying to have the city not own the things it doesn't need to own, having competition, not granting monopolies unless you have to." This is a theme that has also been sounded by William J. Diamond, the new General Services Commissioner.
Mr. Rose, who was executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a nonprofit group concerned with housing and planning issues, has his own goals.
"We should, at the least, double private-market housing production in the Giuliani administration," he said. "And I'd like to see it triple. That would be a very grandiose statement if the actual number of units being produced in the City of New York weren't so ridiculously low." He estimated last year's production at 5,000 units.
One way to increase it, Mr. Rose said, is by "creating opportunities for residential development" in areas now zoned exclusively for manufacturing -- many of them on the waterfront -- where there is "simply no market, no demand and no prospect whatsoever" that the land will be used for industrial purposes.
Another way, he said, is to prune regulations in the Quality Housing zoning program that dictate building interiors in great detail -- specifying the location of laundry rooms, the size of windows in laundry-room doors, the number of apartments on a corridor, the amount of play equipment in a recreational space. "I call it getting zoning out of the bedroom," Mr. Rose said.
There are other items on Mr. Rose's list of "anti-obstructionist" measures:
* Study the "fair share" criteria under which city facilities are supposed to be apportioned among communities.
* Raise the threshold under which projects are subject to environmental review.
* Substitute automatic, "as-of-right" regulations for those that now require special permits and authorizations.
* Hasten the approval process through "self-certification," in which a developer's architect or engineer -- rather than city planners -- would certify that an application was complete and ready for review.
"Yes, it's a pro-development agenda, as New York City needs," Mr. Rose said, emphasizing that he favored "appropriate" development only. "Inappropriate development that destabilizes neighborhoods and makes them less attractive places to live is not in the city's long- and mid-term economic interest," he said.
However, he also stressed that the city's environmental quality review procedure had "become an obstacle," rather than an aid.
"Reams of analyis that no one ever reads or pays attention to are generated in a way that the city has lost its ability to be competitive and be an acceptable place to do business," Mr. Rose said. "The people who come before and have dealings with City Planning should be treated as clients and customers, as opposed to supplicants."
That kind of talk cheers the real-estate and building industries.
"Hurray for him," said Richard T. Anderson, the new president of the New York Building Congress. "The building industry has echoed that sentiment for a long time and it's terribly reassuring to us to hear someone in that position so clearly state the need for improved procedures."
BOROUGH PRESIDENT Guy V. Molinari of Staten Island said, "We're hearing from more and more people in the business community that they have hope, whereas they'd abandoned hope in the past."
Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, also likes what he has seen since Mr. Giuliani took office. "At the moment, I've got to be positive from the industry's point of view," he said. "Every appointment has expressed the same, positive 'We want to be helpful' attitude."
Mr. Spinola characterized City Hall's approach to land use as: "We want to provide the right climate for growth in the business community and the real-estate community."
But enthusiasm is not universal.
When asked about the Giuliani administration's land-use policy, Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx replied:
"Do they have one?"
"My sense is that they're not much into planning and more into mechanics," he said. "I'm not aware that they have a planning policy and that's a little frightening."
In his first imbroglio as planning chairman, Mr. Rose raised questions about the Melrose Commons urban-renewal plan, which was devised with considerable neighborhood participation for a 45-acre area of the Bronx bounded roughly by East 156th and 163d Streets, Park and Brook Avenues.
What concerned Mr. Rose were design guidelines requiring six- to eight-story apartment buildings on some sites.
"Right now, there are no programs or mechanisms or market for the built form that the plan calls for," Mr. Rose said. He said he wanted more "flexibility" in the design controls, so that they could be modified to accommodate smaller buildings, without having to go through a formal urban-renewal amendment, which can take years.
"Inflexibility can be just as harmful as a lack of resources," Mr. Rose said.
But those responsible for the plan were angered by any suggestion that density be reduced, particularly since that suggestion seemed to be coming at the 11th hour, after the community had labored on the plan.
"That's not what this urban infrastructure was built for," Mr. Ferrer said. "A mix of densities is what builds a community."
"Nobody is pretending that there are programs on the table this morning for six- to eight-story buildings," said Richard Kahan, president of the Urban Assembly, which is coordinating the overall Bronx Center planning effort. "What the community has said is that if they have to wait five or 10 years for someone to be innovative enough to create such a program, they're prepared to wait, so that when this project is built, they'll have a neighborhood that will last."
A vote on Melrose Commons is scheduled for tomorrow at the City Planning Commission and the design guidelines were still under negotiation late last week.
Another unresolved land-use battle concerns the Coliseum site, which Mortimer B. Zuckerman is under contract to redevelop. The Giuliani administration has allied itself with Mr. Zuckerman in his efforts to restructure the longstanding deal instead of compelling him either to build as planned or forfeit a $33.8 million letter of credit.
"It doesn't indicate that there's any land-use policy," said Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge of the Upper West Side.
Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan said it was "distressing both that the focus was so much on, 'Let's make a deal -- any deal,' and that it wasn't clear who was setting administration policy."
MS. MESSINGER also expressed concern about City Hall's approach to revising the "fair share" program by which, in theory, every neighborhood bears equitably the impact of city facilities. Earlier this month, Mayor Giuliani was quoted in The New York Post as saying about the program that "it deteriorates every neighborhood to bring it down to the lowest common denominator."
As Ms. Messinger read it, this meant that "they're talking about seeking permission to dump facilities in already saturated neighborhoods."
And Mr. Kahan said "that may well be the most significant land-use policy pronouncement so far and would, over the years, influence the placement of many facilities."
In the wake of the storm kicked up by the article, Mr. Rose emphasized that in his review "nothing will involve fewer protections for communities than are now entailed in fair-share criteria."
For a number of key players, it is too early to take the measure of the Giuliani administration's approach to planning. "I think they're still developing their persona," said Councilwoman June M. Eisland of the Bronx, who heads the land use committee.
"The jury is still out," said Greg Brooks, executive assistant to Borough President Howard Golden of Brooklyn.
"I haven't really noticed any difference," said Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens. "The items we had are moving along the way they were before Giuliani took office."This month, she appointed Irwin Cantor, a structural engineer, to succeed Joel A. Miele Sr., who was named Buildings Commissioner in February.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clay Lifflander, new Economic Development Corporation chief. Joseph B. Rose, the new chairman of the City Planning Commission and director of the City Planning Department. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "A Slowly Changing Guard at Planning Commission" shows term expirations at City Planning Commission from 1994 to 1998. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DME (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC) DIME SAVINGS BANK OF NEW YORK FSB (83%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC) CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ZONING; LAND USE POLICIES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CITIES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LIFFLANDER, CLAY (COMR); ROSE, JOSEPH B; DUNLAP, DAVID W RUDY GIULIANI (90%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



552 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Trump Tower;
New Tenant Mix, New Image and New Revenues

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
SOME buildings are just structures. Others are icons. And icons are just not expected to change.
So it is with more than a small degree of wonder that New Yorkers have watched Trump Tower, once home to stores that attracted the biggest of big spenders, metamorphose into a vertical mall that, while still higher toned than anything in, say, A & S Plaza, is a far cry from the posh emporium created at 57th Street and Fifth Avenue 11 years ago. 
 Gone are Martha, Lina Lee, Charles Jourdan, Buccellati and other stores with astronomical prices. They've been replaced by the likes of Coach, Footloose, Dooney & Bourke, and other highly respected but decidedly upper middle-class retailers.
Ferragamo, also an upper-middle-class shop, is opening a street-level shoe store and a third-floor accessories shop in June. Rumors are rife that Nike, an egalitarian footwear store if ever there was one, will open where Galeries Lafayette, the struggling French department store, now is.
And while The Trump Organization and Galeries Lafayette's president George J. Graf, deny that the French store's 80,000 square feet will soon change hands, there's another shocker of a tenant that no one is trying to deny. Tower Records, that purveyor of sound to the masses, will open an 8,000-square-foot store in Trump Tower in May.
"The whole idea of the new tenant mix is that everyone who comes through here, tourist or New Yorker, can leave with a shopping bag," said David J. Malitzky, vice president of real estate for The Trump Organizaiton.
The Trump Organization is bowing to demographic realities. When the building opened in 1983 it made no bones about catering to the rich. Its residential condominiums were among the country's most expensive, and the retailers it sought -- and got -- were the type that thrived in rarefied atmospheres.
Apparently, Trump was too successful in creating that image of exclusivity. Trump Tower rapidly became a tourist attraction, a place where thousands of people came to gawk at the marble walls and the ultra-expensive baubles and clothes but who left having bought, perhaps, a cup of coffee in one of the cafes. The bustle and crowds, meanwhile, drove many truly rich New Yorkers to do their shopping elsewhere.
"Trump is being realistic," said Benjamin Fox, a partner in New Spectrum Realty, a retail brokerage. "These days many of the real high-end retailers and their New York customers want Madison Avenue."
Conversely, mass-market retailers have sought to capitalize on 57th Street's tourist flow. Warner Brothers has a store across the street from Trump Tower and the store selling merchandise with the Coca-Cola logo is just a block to the south.
"They wouldn't have been as interested if Warner's hadn't come in," said Richard T. Halpern, the broker who represented Tower Records. "They like that Fifth and 57th is no longer so chi-chi, but is a place where millions of people not only look, but can buy."
Existing Trump tenants seem to grudgingly accept the mass-market influx.
"Our customers come to us from all over the world, it doesn't matter who else is here," said Daniel Yerushami, whose ultra-expensive Napoleon men's wear store was one of Trump Tower's original tenants and who just opened a Lady Napoleon store there.
Other tenants, while less ebullient, still seem to feel the pros of their Tower location outweigh the cons. Stephen Russell, which sells fine jewelry, recently renewed its lease -- for a more favorable rent -- for its 200-square-foot third-floor store.
"The location is good, the security is good, and at least Tower Records isn't right next to me," said Russell Zelenetz, the store's owner.
Similarly, Karen Franceskin, manager of the Coach leatherware store across from Stephen Russell, said she had "mixed feelings" about Tower Records, but added "I'd rather see them there than an empty space."
CLEARLY, The Trump Organization was willing to risk disgruntling a few tenants to fill up the building. For the Tower's new tenant mix did not result from natural evolution; it is something the Trump Organization methodically pursued.
It had no choice. For the last four years the Tower has hemmorhaged tenants. Martha International and Lina Lee both closed their Trump Tower outlets, as much because of financial problems pervading their companies as for any lack of success on 57th Street. Bonwit Teller had left in 1989, and even though Galeries Lafayette quickly signed on for most of Bonwit's space, there was a year of costly buildout work before the new tenant started paying rent.
Meanwhile, an antiques store, a furrier and a restaurant succumbed to the New York recession. Other tenants were merely scraping by, and could not pay the mininum $200 a foot that Trump had been charging for mediocre space, let alone the $500 a foot that Jourdan shoes and other Fifth Avenue-frontage stores were paying.
With the retailers struggling, the revenue stream that came from a percentage of their sales dried up too, although that had never been very high to begin with.
"We had always preferred charging high rents to depending on sharing in revenues," Mr. Malitzky explained.
Suddenly, the path to those high rents was blocked. For the first time, the Trump Organization had to actively market for tenants. It hired Garrick-Aug Store Leasing, a brokerage that had found space for many mid-scale retail chains, to do the job.
The Garrick-Aug brokers quickly recognized that Trump's preferred split of high rent/low percentage of retail sales had to be turned on its ear.
"We couldn't scare tenants away with $500 rents," said Robert Futterman, a Garrick-Aug managing director. "We had to convince them they could afford Fifth Avenue."
In fact, Trump Tower had problems attracting new tenants. Donald Trump, who still insists on signing off on every deal, spoke to Warner Brothers and to Disney about perhaps opening in the Tower, but those deals never came through. Several retailers, including the Bostonian and 9 West shoe chains, were interested only if they could get the choice spots at the building's entrance, for a relatively low rent.
Meanwhile, Fifth Avenue storefronts were becoming available for as low as $300 a square foot for avenue frontage equal to the type of space for which Trump Tower still wanted top dollar. Several retailers spoke to Mr. Trump about space, couldn't agree on rents, and moved a few blocks south.
IN one sense, Trump Tower may be benefiting from the renewed competition. Many new Fifth Avenue stores, including Bruno Magli shoes on 52d Street and Golden Books Showcase children's books on 51st, are doing very well, which has not gone unnoticed by other retailers looking to expand.
"There are leases being written for $400 a foot again," noted Faith H. Consolo, another Garrick-Aug managing director. Those kinds of numbers may help Trump inch its asking rents back up, too.
For now, though, much of Trump Tower's retail negotiations are behind it. Galeries Lafayette, by far its largest tenant, has "repositioned" itself, as Mr. Graf put it. It has sifted through its merchandise lines, brought prices down, held some well-advertised sales. Mr. Graf concedes that the store is not making money. Nonetheless, he insists he has no intention of reneging on his lease, which runs until 2006, or of subletting space to Nike.
"That is not our game plan," he said.
Today, Trump Tower's 140,000 square feet of retail space is nearly full. A few new tenants, particularly those taking tiny spaces, are paying the old rich rents -- Sunglass Hut is paying close to $800 a square foot for a 125-square-foot store that used to house Trump Tower's own residential sales office. But most of the new tenants signed on at far lower rents than Trump Tower had traditionally been charging, but at a higher percentage of sales.
The numbers seem to bode well for the Tower. Mr. Malitzky notes that revenues from retail space came in at about $12.7 million in 1992. They were up to $13.6 million last year. And the forecasts are for steady increases each year, bringing the revenue stream to nearly $16.9 million in 1998.
And, best of all from the Trump Organization's view, "Since we started making them, our projections have proven to be conservative," Mr. Malitzky said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ferragamo will open a street-level shoe store and a third-floor accessories shop at Trump Tower in June. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP ORGANIZATION; TOWER RECORDS; COACH LEATHERWARE; DOONEY & BOURKE CO; FERRAGAMO SHOES (CO) SA DES GALERIES LAFAYETTE (56%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); NEW YORK (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP ORGANIZATION; TOWER RECORDS; COACH LEATHERWARE; DOONEY & BOURKE CO; FERRAGAMO SHOES (CO) NEW YORK (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TRUMP TOWER (NYC); RENTING AND LEASING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR RETAILERS (91%); SHOE STORES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); MUSIC STORES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); TOURISM (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (62%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



553 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Roxbury;
Low Taxes, Low Profile and Rural

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
STRICT zoning dating to 1932, a profusion of ledge rock and wetlands that are natural deterrents to development, a location that is off the main routes and a population that prizes peace, privacy and low taxes have combined to let Roxbury retain a rural character that elevates the term low-key to new heights.
Because of the zoning there are no restaurants, movie theaters, liquor stores, dry cleaners, sidewalks, clothiers, condominiums or co-ops. The nearest hospital and supermarket are nine miles away, in New Milford, and the nearest major shopping is at the Danbury Mall, 20 miles away. 
 There are no traffic lights, and crime is so negligible that a resident state trooper and four constables suffice. The fire department, housed in a pristine white colonial building, is entirely volunteer, and the Town Hall next door, equally white and well-tended, is manned by part-timers and volunteers.
"This is a heavily Republican community," said Edward T. Went, the First Selectman -- a Democrat in his fifth term -- "but for the past 30 years the Republicans have been in for only six years. People in small towns don't bother with party labels."
There is no public water supply or sewage lines, and houses -- on lots that must be at least three acres -- have individual wells and septic tanks. Although some contemporary architecture is acceptable, colonial is preferred. That is in keeping with the almost 100 homes, barns and other structures, many built in the 1700's, in the Historic District along Church Street, Route 67, South Street, Southbury Road and Weller's Bridge Road that was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983.
Taxes are kept low by the generosity of residents. Recently they supplemented state and Federal grants by substantial contributions to the new $1.5 million library scheduled to open in mid-May without a penny of local taxes.
"Now we will have a community room," said Timothy Beard, the town librarian, "where we will run film series, have parties, club meetings and tap into our pool of resident authors and artists for lectures, readings and performances."
He will have quite a choice. A short list of celebrities with homes in Roxbury would include the actors Dustin Hoffman, Richard Widmark and Walter Matthau; the novelist William Styron; the playwrights Arthur Miller, A. R. Gurney and Robert Anderson; the composer-lyricist Stephen Sondheim and Joseph A. Califano Jr., Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in Lyndon B. Johnson's Administration.
MARION SKEDGALL, a former editor at E. P. Dutton, the New York publishers, and her husband moved to Roxbury in 1975 from Rye, N.Y. "We've never been sorry," she said. "What we saved on Westchester taxes bought us an apartment in Manhattan."
They live near Painter Ridge, where on a clear day, the Catskills -- 60 miles away, beyond a succession of ridges and valleys formed by glaciers several milleniums ago -- can be seen.
Mrs. Skedgall is the volunteer chairman of the Roxbury Planning Commission. "Things were very slow last year," she said. "Only three lots came up for subdivision approval. This year we had more than that in the first three months. Land prices are pretty good. In 1989 a 3-acre unimproved lot on a dirt road went for $150,000; now you can find some at $50,000."
About 30 preapproved lots, unsold through the recession, are available. Among them are six 10-acre wooded residential lots at Forest Farms on Davenport Road and North Street, for sale at $174,000 to $250,000 by Joan Galligan, a local developer. Under 10-acre zoning rules, the houses must have at least 4,000 square feet of space.
Roxbury began as a part of the Town of Woodbury in the early 1700's. In 1796 it incorporated, becoming a farming, manufacturing and mining town. In addition to silver, gold, copper and mica, iron ore was mined, and in the mid-1800's a smelting furnace was built with granite Gothic arched entryways, giving it the appearance of a small castle.
Outmoded and inadequate, it ceased operations in 1875. Columbia University's School of Mines used it briefly as a demonstration site and today it is owned and maintained by the Roxbury Land Trust as an educational curiosity. The trust also owns 1,400 acres of open space for hiking and birding, and in the summer town residents can use the trust's natural spring pond on River Road for swimming.
Through the 19th century Roxbury's economy flourished with sawmills, granaries and hat and button factories along the Shepaug River, but they began disappearing at the turn of the 20th century, unable to compete with huge plants in the Naugatuck and Housatonic River Valleys. Dairy farms continue to operate, but pieces of them have been sold off steadily since the 1940's, mostly to New Yorkers seeking vacation homes.
Edward Tierney, head of Tierney Real Estate, moved his family to Roxbury from Long Island in 1956 "to raise our children in the country," he said. He noted that Roxbury, despite its reputation for affluence, had "a mix of people, with lots of native families who don't have a lot of money."
His office is on Route 67, opposite the Town Hall in The Marketplace, a building that also houses a general store, the post office and the only bank, an office of First National Bank of Litchfield.
THE 9,000-square-foot structure, operating as a nonconforming building in the Historic District, was recently bought for $675,000 by Roderick Thorne and David Cleaves, local developers who are upgrading it and adding second-story offices. The store will have a meat market, fresh produce and groceries, and "we have hired a chef to prepare take-out as good as Balducci's but a lot cheaper," said Mr. Thorne.
The only other commercial site, zoned 30 years ago to permit a few stores, is in such a poor location on Route 67 that "the commission thought nobody would be crazy enough to build on it," said Mrs. Skedgall. Somebody did recently, but the four-unit, half-vacant retail building has not prospered and is for sale at $625,000.
Another thing that Roxbury lacks is private schools, but many consider the public system, with its low enrollments, educated families and generous budget, the equal of a private education.
Children from kindergarten through Grade 5 -- there are now 136 of them -- attend the Booth Free School on South Street. From grades 6 through 12 they go to the Shepaug Valley Regional Middle-High School in neighboring Washington, along with students from Washington and Bridgewater.
"The region was formed in the 60's to save money and avoid duplication," said the Superintendent, Robert Nicoletti. Today, he said of the regional school, "we have 491 students in a building designed for 1,000."
Roxbury's population has declined from a high of 3,500 in the mid-1800's to 2,100 in the 1980's to 1,850 today, a result of a lower birthrate and the exodus of young adults who can't afford to live there.
"We would welcome some minority students," said Mr. Nicoletti, "to comply with a state mandate for greater diversity, and because we have the room and the money to absorb them." He estimated that fewer than 20 of the Shepaug Regional School's pupils were nonwhite.
The regional school was cited for three years running by the State Department of Education for its innovative senior pilot project, which requires a year's work on a student's chosen topic. That project will become mandatory next year. Under the pilot program, individual students have produced a full-scale musical comedy, a hovercraft, a 45-minute documentary on the similarities of the five major religions and a design for a golf course and have raised, slaughtered and sold four breeder hogs and done a business analysis of the process.
About 85 percent of high school seniors go on to two- or four-year colleges. SAT scores in 1992 were 488 in math and 487 verbal, well above state averages.
UNDER the supervision of a volunteer commissioner, Jay Kronfeld, the town's recreation department offers free ice skating, a children's playground, baseball, shuffleboard and outdoor basketball at the Everett B. Hurlbut Community Park. There also are three blacktop tennis courts at other locations.
"We live a Spartan life here," said Mr. Kronfeld. There's no one to roll clay courts."
The Shepaug River can produce rigorous whitewater conditions for canoes and kayaks, and horse owners with riding-to-hounds experience may apply for membership in the Fairfield County Hounds, which originated in Westport in 1926 and gradually moved upcountry. The red-coated group meets on Tuesdays and Saturdays to gallop after the foxhounds that chase the foxes "but never catch one," said William Stewart, master of the hunt.
"We do not kill foxes," he said.
On May 20 there will be a Maypole celebration, and Old Roxbury Day will take place on July 23, when the Historical Society shows off its collection of antique farm machinery.
"We'll run the old threshing machine," said Robert Hodges, the event coordinator, "provided we can grow a crop of rye in time to feed it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Marketplace across from Town Hall has the town's post office. Congregational Church on Church Street. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); On the Market -- Sturbridge Village replica at 65 Mallory Road, $329,000. Three-level contemporary at 6 Davenport Road, $645,000. 1742 Colonial on 60 acres at 177 Good Hill Road, $1 million.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 1,850 (1994 estimate).
 
 AREA: 27.1 miles.
 
 MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $58,415 (1990 census).
 
 MEDIAN PRICE OF SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $275,000.
 
 TAX ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $3,234.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE OF SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE IN 1990: $360,000.
 
 PUBLIC-SCHOOL EXPENDITURE PER PUPIL: elementary $7,247; high school, $12,063.
 
 DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 90 miles.
 
 RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MANHATTAN: 40-minute drive to Brewster, N.Y., then 80 minutes Metro-North train, $188 monthly, $9.25 one way.
 
 CODES: Area, 203; ZIP, 06783.
 
 GOVERNMENT: First Selectman (Edward T. Went, Democrat) and 2-member Board of Selectmen elected to 2-year terms; annual open Town Meeting.
 
 GREEN MOUNTAIN BOY: Roxbury claims to be the birthplace of three Green Mountain Boys of the Revolutionary War -- Ethan Allen, Seth Warner and Remember Baker. In 1859 the General Assembly had a monument erected to Warner on South Street in Roxbury, where it remains. But before it was installed the townspeople took it upon themselves to disinter Warner's body from the local cemetery and rebury it with proper pomp and ceremony in the monument site.
 
Map of Roxbury.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROXBURY PLANNING COMMISSION (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROXBURY PLANNING COMMISSION (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROXBURY (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); FILM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); WRITERS (85%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); WETLANDS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); WATER QUALITY (75%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); LIBRARIES (62%); SONG WRITING (60%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



554 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Q & A: Charles Osgood;
A New Face at CBS 'Sunday Morning'

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI 

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD

 BODY:
HIS television tag line is already known to millions: "See you on the radio." Charles Osgood will be saying a lot more than that in his new, high-visibility television assignment, one he says fills him with pride, joy, and a bit of anxiety about long hours at work and responsibilities at home in Englewood.
On April 1 -- April Fools' Day, he notes -- Mr. Osgood was named as the replacement for Charles Kuralt as host of the CBS News program "Sunday Morning." Mr. Kuralt, best known for his "On the Road" reports, was the program's host for 15 years. 
 Mr. Kuralt's retirement came as a surprise to many, including Mr. Osgood. But the choice of his replacement has been hailed by many people, including Mr. Kuralt.
Mr. Osgood, 61, brings to the Sunday program years of experience and a strong reputation for his witty radio and television reports, "The Osgood Files," which have spawned four books. His reports often include the whimsical poetry that is as much his trademark as is his bow tie.
Explaining his fashion choice, he said a study in Success magazine once found that men who wear bow ties are "distrusted by almost everyone." The magazine writer recommended that a bow tie be left at home, unless one is willing to wear with it the proper accessories, like "a red nose and a beanie cap with a propeller."
Mr. Osgood took issue with this, he said, "since credibility and being trusted are important in my line of work." Saying that people should never take themselves too seriously, he wrote:
For those who have lusted to be honored and trusted,
A bow tie, I say, doesn't hurt.
It isn't your tie that most people will eye --
It's the big soup stain there on your shirt.
Mr. Osgood lives in a home built in the 1850's by one of Englewood's founders, J. Wyman Jones. "When you've got five kids, you have to think of things on a grand scale," he said. In recent weeks, technicians have installed electronic equipment, so he can write and record his radio broadcasts from home.
With a demanding schedule that has him up at 2 A.M. and in Manhattan by 4, he said, getting some work done within view of his family will improve his recognition factor at home and prevent a call to the police reporting a burglar.
Q. What's a typical day like?
A. I get up at 2, 2:30 in the morning, shower and shave, get into the office by about 3:30, and by 4 o'clock I'm hovering over the Associated Press and Reuters wire and scanning the papers for story ideas. I do four separate stories, on the hour. And what's nice about being in a broadcast center is that with CBS "This Morning" being on for two hours, there's always a parade of people going in and out on any number of subjects, and I've been known to shanghai them on occasion.
With less than an hour between shows, you've got to write fast. And as the morning goes on, there's always less and less time. The trick is to stay ahead.
Q. How do you handle that kind of pressure?
A. Beats me. I do one story; then I have to erase my mind and move on to the next. It's the only way I can work. That's why, when people say to me, 'Hey, that was a really nice story you did this morning,' I have to say, 'Why, thank you. Which one?' "
Q. Your style has been termed unique. What do you look for in terms of stories?
A. Something that I can sink my teeth into. Nothing bizarre. Sometimes if you take a conventional story, add a rhyme to it, you can turn it into something special and spin it out over two and a half minutes. Of course, the story should be funny. Or poignant. Sometimes you're lucky, and it turns out to be both.
Q. You have a Steinway grand piano. I'm told that there's a story behind it.
A. This piano I bought from what used to be Columbia Records, back when it was CBS Records. This was in their recording studio on 30th Street, and this was their recording piano. It was used by Rudolf Serkin and Glenn Gould. In fact, this piano was used for the "Sing Along With Mitch" records, many of the Frank Sinatra recordings, and since 1939 and its lifetime there, it was kept under perfectly controlled humidity and tuned every day. It's lived a much harder life here, I must say.
Q. For many, watching "Sunday Morning" is an integral part of the weekend. As its new host, and in replacing Mr. Kuralt, do you feel you have some pretty big shoes to fill?
A. I have learned a lot about this show in just the last couple of weeks, and I think that it's really amazing how over the years it has become a ritual for a lot of people.
I've heard some say that they plan going to church around it, either before or after the broadcast. On weekends, on Sundays, people like to relax, to do the same things, and they find comfort in that, like reading the Sunday paper.
To say that the "Sunday Morning" show is part of that routine is really saying a lot. Hosting it is being part of that whole experience, because people are allowing you into their homes at a cherished time of the week.
Q. On your first "Sunday Morning" as host, you mentioned that Mr. Kuralt was going to sit back and watch the program in his bathrobe. Did he?
A. I don't know. He said he was going to. After 15 years of this, I hope he took the opportunity to sleep in.
Q. Do you plan on changing the format of the program?
A. The show has not changed over the last 15 years, but it has evolved. It's like the Sunday paper and sitting back and letting it all sink in. We have an arts section, the essay, the news and a time to reflect. Some lovely scenery shots with no talk over, no background noise. I think that, personally, that is my favorite part.
A lot of TV today, no matter where you turn, no matter where you tune in, it's just wall-to-wall yammer. Except on "Sunday Morning," and a lot of people on the broadcast are proud of that. I know I am.
Q. In college, you were an economics major. You have no formal training in print or broadcast journalism. How did you get into radio?
A. At Fordham University, there was a college radio station there, and I was drawn to it. My colleagues included Alan Alda and Jack Haley Jr. They were infectious, and we had lots of fun. There were times, of course, when we spent more time at the station than in classes, but we managed to graduate anyhow.
 Q. Didn't a stint in the Army also prepare you for your later career?
A. It did. When I got out school, I met a friend at a local radio station and ran into a fellow in this grand white suit with a ton of gold braid. Very impressive. It turns out that he was the announcer for the U.S. Army Band and was about to finish his hitch. I took note of that, talked to his commanding offficer and signed up. For three years, between 1955 and 1958, I toured as the band's emcee although we were based at Fort Meyer.
While in Washington, I moonlighted as an announcer at WGMS, which stood for Washington Good Music Station, by the way. At one point, when President Eisenhower had suffered a heart attack and was hospitalized, it was my job to put together a radio show that was piped exclusively into his room. I kept it light, because it's not every day that you have a captive Presidential audience.
Q. Do you regret not having a formal education in journalism?
A. Not in the least. I joined CBS in 1967, and when you work with the likes of Charles Kuralt, Douglas Edwards, Dallas Townsend and Walter Cronkite, it's kind of tough not to learn from the example they set. Most of all Kuralt.
At CBS, there was no one mold that everyone needed to fit in. That's why there was such a colorful repertoire of talent, such as Bill Moyers, Andy Rooney and Hughes Rudd. Early at CBS, I remember subbing for Lowell Thomas on a newscast. I was in such awe, because here I was filling in for someone that I'd been listening to since I was a kid. What a cast of characters, and here I was, right in the middle of them!
Q. How did your style evolve?
A. One day in a particular story I incorporated a little rhyme just as a way of doing something different. The report aired, and I immediately heard from a management type in the news division: "Very nice, Charlie, very clever. Don't do it again."
Needless to say, I did, although I did allow some time to elapse, and we got positive feedbacks from listeners. It just goes to show that no matter how crazy things can become around you, there is poetic justice after all.
 
Profile
 Born: Jan. 8, 1933, in the Bronx.
Education: St. Cecelia High School, Englewood. B.S. in economics, Fordham University, 1954.
Career: Former morning anchor and reporter for WCBS News Radio, 1967 to 1971; general assignment reporter for ABC News, 1963 to 1967; recipient of the George Foster Peabody Award in 1985 and 1986.
Family: Married to Jean Crafton; five children: Kathleen, 19; Winston, 17; Anne Elizabeth, 16; Emily Jean, 14, and Jamie, 10.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Osgood, new host of CBS "Sunday Morning," at his home in Englewood. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Interview

TITLE: SUNDAY MORNING (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (72%); POETRY (67%); MEN (66%); 

PERSON: OSGOOD, CHARLES; KURALT, CHARLES; PARISI, ALBERT J CHARLES BISHOP KURALT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



555 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: April 17-22

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Could That Be I.B.M. Emerging From the Tar Pits?
It made good copy: the tale of a dinosaur that failed to keep up with the times and was clearly headed for the high-tech tar pits. But I.B.M., it seems, decided that it wasn't too pleased with that script. And last week -- a year after Louis Gerstner took charge -- it came out with a surprisingly strong quarterly report that says, at least tentatively, that I.B.M. is alive and kicking. These numbers don't say "extinct": profits, $392 million, on revenues of $13.4 billion. And, miracle of miracles, sales of mainframes -- the very word conjures images of dusty bones in this world of miniaturization -- aren't doing as badly as they were. The stock market, often cool to good profit news these days, was gleeful, as I.B.M. shares jumped 12 percent in a day, and crept up even more the next, to close the week at $58.75. O.K., that's not $170 (August 1987) but it's not $41 (August 1993) either. 

Ford Has a Global Idea
Ford, watching the world shrink, wants to set up shop on that new global street corner. Last week it redefined itself, announcing the broadest changes in a generation -- all aimed at hacking away at duplication in its vast worldwide operations and streamlining its sprawling organization. As a start, it will merge its North American and European operations -- but that's part of a broader vision of better coordinating its plants in 30 countries. A big part of that vision is a "world car" -- one that sells well everywhere. But is this a pipe dream? Ford's Mondeo, its latest try at a world car, has been criticized as inefficient, and other auto makers, like Toyota, have found that the world is still a big and varied place when it comes to tastes in cars.
 
Less Recourse on Stock Fraud
Suppose you buy a stock, the company goes bust, and it later turns out the company lied about its vital signs. What's your recourse? It used to be that you could look around for others to blame -- the accountant who checked the books, perhaps, or a lawyer who advised on a stock offering -- and sue them for "aiding and abetting" a securities fraud. No more. Last week the Supreme Court ruled that such suits are not allowed under the 1934 Securities Exchange Act. It was a victory for the securities industry and, of course, for accountants, who insist that securities laws have reached too far into their turf. But others say it will make securities laws harder to enforce and they see great dangers in taking the pressure off accountants.
 
Teledyne Whistle-Blower Deal
The Government's idea of getting whistle-blowers to help in recovering money lost to procurement fraud is clearly paying off. This year, in fact, the amount recovered could surpass $1 billion. A big chunk of that came last week, when Teledyne agreed to pay $112.5 million to settle two lawsuits by former employees -- one of the largest such payments ever by a military contractor. And the employees who came forward will get 15 to 25 percent of that. On the news, Teledyne's stock jumped $2.50, to $16.875.
 
Opening Up an A.T.M. Network
With automated teller machines increasingly becoming the way people do their banking, the Government is taking a closer look at the way the A.T.M. networks are run. The Justice Department zeroed in on the MAC network, the nation's biggest regional network, saying it had tried to create an illegal monopoly and had charged banks an extra dime per transaction, adding up to $100 million a year. Last week MAC settled with the Justice Department, agreeing to open the network to new rivals.
 
Earnings Up? Sell!
Many companies told the world how they were doing last week, and you'd think investors would act rationally, buying stock in those doing well. Get real, as the 10-somethings would say. Chrysler reported record profits of $938 million; its stock fell 4.7 percent in a day. Lotus's profit rose 74 percent; its stock plunged 12 percent. Morton's income soared 48 percent; its stock dropped 11 percent. What's up? Investors, it seems, want nothing but miracles. "No failure to generate a positive earnings surprise goes unpunished," said one analyst (ignoring I.B.M.). Meanwhile, AMR lost $7 million, and its stock rose.
 
A Success Story Explodes
Kidder, Peabody dismissed a bond trader named Joseph Jett last week, saying he'd wildly inflated profits to lift his bonus. Not that Mr. Jett's bonus was meager: $9 million last year. Would car payments and dental bills have been a burden at, say, half that? Kidder says Mr. Jett created a phantom $350 million profit working with today's high-tech investments, weaving pieces of bonds into webs so elaborate a spider would get lost. But here's the puzzler: didn't Kidder find it odd that a $350 million profit appeared out of thin air? If you plant a radish and get two radishes, you're pleased; if you get 350 million radishes, alarms should go off.
 
4-Megabyte Eggs and Ham
Yes, yes, the world is going high-tech. But aren't some cultural icons exempt? Last week the multimedia rights to the Dr. Seuss books were sold to Living Books, and the classic stories are headed for CD-ROM. So this is what's coming: After a two-income, zero-serenity day, you grab a little "quality time," snuggling up for the miraculously soothing cadences of "Green Eggs and Ham" -- just you, your 4-year-old and the computer. Do you like it, Sam-I-Am?
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The Fed Runs Its Own Race
The Federal Reserve and the Administration are like runners in a very odd race -- the two have different finish lines. The Fed, in a marathon, keeps its eye in the distance; when it raised short-term rates last week -- the third time this year -- it was reacting not to any inflation erupting with the daffodils, but to the far-off threat that if things are too good, inflation will follow. But politicians run sprint after sprint -- dashing to an election, easing up, dashing to the next. And they know voters are even more shortsighted, voting that week's pocketbook. So the White House is watching nervously as the Fed measures its pace, worried that short-term ripples from central bank moves could upset this fall's elections.
 
Stocks on a Seesaw
At first last week, the stock market had its usual knee-jerk reaction, with the Dow industrials plunging 41 points on Monday, the day the Fed rate rise was announced, and 21 more on Wednesday. But on Thursday investors had a change of heart and stampeded back in, sending the Dow soaring 53 and pushing bond rates down. It didn't hurt, of course, that that was the day I.B.M. had its rosy news.
 
The Greening of the G.D.P.
The gross domestic product supposedly tells us how we're doing -- in an economic sense, at any rate. But critics have long seen a flaw in the figures. Look at it this way: If a farmer plants unwisely, depleting the soil's riches, the farm's output may be high for a while, but long-term damage is ignored. Similarly, G.D.P. data measure only the nation's output, not factoring in whether we're damaging the "farm" at the heart of that output -- the environment. So for some time the Commerce Department has planned to come up with an alternate G.D.P. number -- not a replacement for the usual number -- that includes the impact of things like air pollution and lost trees. Last week it said it would soon release its first such "green" accounting.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
A World Out of Balance
The industrialized world is badly out of balance, and Washington can't seem to do anything about it. While the American economy speeds ahead, Western Europe and Japan can't, or won't, do what it takes to shake off recession, even though the White House is exerting what pressure it can for cuts in taxes or interest rates. So with rich America gleefully buying the world's goods, and with its trading partners unable to return the favor, the trade deficit is taking off. In February, it hit $9.7 billion, its worst level in six years, the Commerce Department said last week.
 
A Middle Ground on China
Our relations with China have been heading toward an all-or-nothing showdown on June 3. That's when the Administration is threatening to revoke China's favorable trade status if China doesn't get its human-rights house in order. But it now appears there can be shades of gray. Democratic lawmakers who want to be tough on China are working with the White House on a compromise -- some trade in return for some progress on rights abuses.
 
A Vote for Russian Stability
Possibly, just possibly, Russia's leaders are moving the economy toward stability. After throwing money at industry and agriculture last year to keep them alive, the central bank has tightened the purse strings. The result: inflation, which last year hit a monthly average of roughly 20 percent, is creeping down. In March it was 8.7 percent -- still scarily high for a monthly figure, but the lowest number since market reforms began in January 1992. No doubt in recognition of this progress, last week the I.M.F. granted Russia a long-delayed $1.5 billion loan.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing daily closes for IBM from 1993 to 1994 (Source: Datastream) and percent change in Russian consumer prices from 1993 to 1994. (Source: Russian Government)
 
Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); ACCOUNTING (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); LAWYERS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (60%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B LOUIS V GERSTNER JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



556 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: New Third World Fear: Investors Could Walk Away

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE international debt crisis is finally over. Well, maybe.
A week ago, the world's biggest banks quietly agreed to restructure the last big chunk of commercial debt in Brazil, effectively marking the end of the 12-year-old lending crisis in Latin America. 
 But the deal underscored another quiet change that has been rippling through the credit and equity markets of Latin America and much of the rest of the developing world: the banks have been superseded as the primary source of foreign capital by such new private investors as pension and mutual funds and investment firms. It is a change that brings its own risks and the potential for new crises down the road, or just around the corner.
Seeking diversification and higher returns, the new players have funneled billions into what have come to be called emerging markets. For many of these markets, the flood of new money is proof that the painful economic adjustments undertaken during the debt crisis, at the behest of the banks and international lending organizations, have paid off.
But not so fast, many international economists and lending experts say. The new lenders bring something besides money with them: the potential for great volatility. Unlike the banks, whose billions were tied up in long-term loans, most of the new investors are holding debt or equity securities that trade in the open market, and they will move on when it no longer pays to stay put, the experts say.
Making matters even more unsettled, many of those managing the new billions are relative novices in the developing world. Some newcomers have had unrealistically high expectations about the emerging markets -- including their stability and safety -- and have been intemperate in terms of the breadth and number of their investments.
The recent sharp selloff in emerging-market debt has acted like a cold shower for some of the new investors. The selloff was triggered by the rise in interest rates in the United States, which made foreign investments less attractive. It sent bond values tumbling 19 percent in the developing world in the first quarter, according to J. P. Morgan & Company's Emerging Market Bond Index.
To attract -- and hold onto -- the new money, borrowers increasingly will have to meet investor demands and compete with others who need the money just as badly. Earlier this year, for example, the Turkish Government was unable to pass muster with Western bond rating agencies and is still looking for a way to borrow $1 billion.
From now on, "the markets will begin to exert more discipline on these countries," said Lincoln Rathnam, director of emerging markets at Scudder, Stevens & Clark, an investment management company based in New York. "If people don't like a particular policy, they will react to it, and exert a rather severe penalty on local securities markets."
Still, despite the recent bond selloff, the faith of many investors in the developing world remains strong, in part because of structural reforms that have already been implemented. That faith was tested in Mexico recently with the peasant uprising in Chiapas and the assassination of the ruling party's presidential candidate. While investors were rattled -- as much as $8 billion has been pulled out of the country since the start of the year -- many are staying put and some even see buying opportunities.
"There has been huge conceptual progress," said Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, a former minister of mines in Peru who is now chief executive of Westfield Capital, a Miami-based investment firm that takes equity positions in Latin American companies. "But we still have a long way to go. And the debt is still high."
Indeed, while most of the debt problems left over from the 80's have been worked out, a lot of that debt remains to be serviced, about $500 billion in Latin America alone. Without strong economic growth, meeting interest payments will be a challenge.
And that could result in the supreme test of faith for the new investors. If some governments and private borrowers default on their bonds, as many experts think is inevitable, the developing world could wind up holding the bag. In the 80's, banks had little choice but to work out their problems, pumping in more money to keep their debtors afloat. But the new investors, who individually have much less at stake, may just decide to take their losses and go elsewhere.
LAST year, the major emerging market economies posted a net gain of about $180.8 billion in foreign capital investments, according to the Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based organization established in the 80's by big banks to monitor the debt crisis.
Nearly 74 percent, or $133.4 billion, came from institutions like pension funds, mutual funds and investment banks, which invested in the equity or bonds of private companies that were formed in the wake of the debt crisis. Commercial banks, by comparison, accounted for just $23.9 billion of the gain.
That is a sharp contrast from 1981, when the banks were responsible for 77 percent of the private money that flowed into these countries.
The problem, say some observers, is that many investment decisions made over the past few years were based more on a declining interest rate trend in the industrialized world than on well-reasoned assessments of the countries and their companies.
"In the last decade there have been three markets" for the developing countries, said John F. McGillicuddy, former chairman and chief executive of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company and later the Chemical Banking Corporation. "One in which they begged, one in which they were ordered and the third in which the floodgates opened. None of them are realistic."
Charles Dallara, managing director of the Institute of International Finance, added, "You could argue that the markets last year were more generous to these countries than the banks ever were."
New money "went to countries that were performing and to others that were not performing," said Mr. Dallara, who was Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs from 1989 to 1991.
At a recent conference, Mr. Dallara said the surge of indiscriminate investments ran the risk "of inducing complacency among policy makers."
But now the risk is that some unforeseen financial failure will turn the spigot off as abruptly as it was turned on.
That could be a big shock, given how much investments have grown over such a short period of time, and how much more they might still grow. Mutual fund holdings in emerging markets went from less than $1 billion in 1986 to about $45 billion at the end of last year, according to the Institute of International Finance. But that still only represents about 1 percent of their total portfolios. Potentially, "the upside of that number is around 20 percent," said Manuel Mejia, a managing director at Merrill Lynch.
For now, "the fact is these markets are still very thin," said Shafiqul Islam, a visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a Washington-based think tank. "If you don't take some cautionary steps to reduce volatility, to reduce the risk of panic, then you could get repetitions of the past. Markets could be vigilant and keep governments under control in terms of fiscal and monetary policies. But they could overreact as well, and cause problems by overreacting."
An example of that overreaction took place in February, some bankers with years of foreign experience argue, when prices of debt securities in the emerging markets tumbled after the Federal Reserve Board began to push up short-term rates in the United States. That reaction came as a surprise to the bankers because conditions in the developing countries remain fundamentally positive.
At the same time, the bankers noted that without the structural changes that have been made in Mexico, the bond market turmoil -- coupled with that country's recent political upheavals -- would probably have provoked a financial crisis.
"Without the reform process that is in place in Mexico, and without Nafta, you could well have seen an outflow of capital like we saw in 1982," said William R. Rhodes, vice chairman at Citibank and a key negotiator with Latin America's three largest debtor nations over the past 12 years. The debt crisis began in August 1982, when Mexico said it was unable to make payments on its foreign loans.
Recent events, Mr. Rhodes said, have "stress-tested the system," but he emphasized that investors have to know "the country, the industry you are investing in."
The progress Mexico has made in opening up and privatizing its economy clearly played an important role in calming investor fears. But televised conferences between Mexican officials and money managers also helped. Twelve years ago, that level of communication was unheard of.
"The explosion of information is the biggest change that has happened" since the debt crisis started, said Angel Guerria Trevino, director of international affairs for Mexico's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party and until recently director of Nacional Financera, the country's development bank. "The market demands a lot of information, and we are providing it. We are very transparent now."
Still, among developing countries, the movement toward investor-friendly transparency will likely be uneven. As a consequence, there will almost certainly be bumps, perhaps big bumps, along the way.
In a recent telephone conference on Latin America, David Beers, a director in the international sovereign ratings department at Standard & Poor's, calmly told clients to expect bad news in coming years.
"It appears likely there will be bond defaults over the next three to four years in this sector of the market," Mr. Beers said. "This is a phenomenon that investors have not had to grapple with since the 1930's."
THE bumpy road is a two-way street, however, as the new investors have already demonstrated to one would-be borrower.
In an attempt to capitalize on what at that point was still a healthy market, the Turkish Government tried to float a $1 billion bond issue earlier this year through Salomon Brothers and Merrill Lynch.
The effort fizzled after ratings agencies took a look at the country's rapidly rising budget deficit and poor inflation prospects and lowered their ratings on the bonds to below investment grade. "We went to the Turkish Government and said we can't do the deal at the price you wanted," one investment banker said. "And they didn't want to pay up to the point the market was demanding to get the transaction done."
The financing is still on the shelf, and Turkey is negotiating with the International Monetary Fund for a standby credit agreement.
"As all of these countries turn more to the public debt markets for financing, the issue of capital flows and access to capital markets becomes a much more important part of the credit equation," said Hendrick J. Kranenburg, executive managing director for international finance at Standard & Poor's. "And the ability of these countries to withstand periods of capital outflow, as well as inflow, becomes a very critical part of our analysis."
Policy makers in developing countries have their work cut out for them, Mr. Dallara of the Institute of International Finance said. Not only must they upgrade information for investors, he said, but they must also be consistent in their policies.
"If you deviate from sound policy over time, your access to a certain market will close up again," Mr. Dallara said.
 
 
 
A DIFFERENT ROLE FOR BANKS
 EVEN though banks were badly burned by the debt crisis -- various restructuring agreements pared more than $90 billion from the face value of their loans to developing countries since 1985, according to the Institute for International Finance -- they will continue to play a role in the world's emerging markets. But it will be a far different role than in the past.
"The banks are going to look, very selectively, at short-term trade financing," said Roland Wojewodski, a managing director in charge of corporate finance activities in Latin America for J. P. Morgan & Company. "But we are not going to see the big flows of money from commercial banks, as we did in the 1970's."
An example of the type of lending Mr. Wojewodski sees banks participating in is a $1.1 billion short-term loan for Pemex, Mexico's state-owned oil company.
The Pemex loan is the first big voluntary bank financing to the Mexican Government or any of its entities in more than a decade. Syndicate managers for the loan -- Morgan, Bank America and the Industrial Bank of Japan -- have received lending commitments in excess of the amount to be borrowed.
"Pemex is a good example," Mr. Wojewodski said. "But that is Pemex, a name that is very important in Latin America. It would be a mistake to think we would be able to do that for a lot of other companies in Latin America."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Where Emerging Nations Get Capital" shows net external financing obtained by major emerging markets from each type of creditor. (Source: Institute of International Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (50%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CREDIT; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES CORPORATE DEBT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



557 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
In Praise of Executive Coaching

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

 BODY:
WILLIAM P. MILO always thought he did a pretty good job of stroking and motivating his "direct reports," so it came as a surprise when some of his managers at the Phico Insurance Company, a large health insurer in Mechanicsburg, Pa., let Mr. Milo know they felt unappreciated. Well, not exactly unappreciated. "Through further analysis, we discovered they felt praised," said Mr. Milo, the senior vice president for administration and planning for Phico. "But when someone does a super job, they feel they aren't treated differently."
Mr. Milo learned of his very reparable flaw while he was scouting and testing leadership development programs for Phico, in search of solutions to problems posed by changes in the economy and the nature of his business. His is an industry in turmoil, both from the corporate desire for more efficiency and the country's desire for health care reform. "Re-engineering's hit us," he said. "We need to be much more flexible, more customer-focused. We need to get people to be more creative." 
 Among the programs he tried was an executive coaching seminar put on by the insurance practice of the Hay Group, the big consulting firm in New York. For three days last fall he was assessed, interviewed, benchmarked and mentored. He listened to feedback gathered before the seminar from colleagues, subordinates and supervisors and soaked it up from his co-participants. He learned that consultants had a word or phrase for every style of work, management, personality, learning or ability.
He came away, he says, understanding better what the "core competencies" -- the crucial skills -- of a leader are, how to match them with Phico's strategic goals and how to encourage his people to acquire them. The course may have helped him understand himself better. "It gives you an idea of what your motives are, whether for achievement or power or affiliation," he said. "It gives you a look inside at what drives you."
Coaching -- as executive development has come to be called -- is not new. But corporate shrinkage and the dawning era of flexible, decentralized management are making obsolete the idea that executives can expect to muscle their way to a career pinnacle and then coast until retirement. Increasingly, they are expected to be, in the words of the anthropologist Harvey Sarles, "auto-didacts," or self-teachers and lifelong learners, whose performance will evolve and improve.
But it is not so easy to push senior managers into what is essentially a training mode. "We think it's O.K. for first-line supervisors to get training, but not for higher ups," said Martin Leshner, managing director for the Hay Group and head of its insurance practice. When they think of improving their performance, most employees focus on gaining more technical skills, precisely what they don't need, in Mr. Leshner's view, especially if they are moving up the hierarchy. "Mostly, people need the ability to influence people. The way organizations operate these days, you are interacting with people who don't work for you. You can't just make them do something," he said.
Younger employees, in particular, are not receptive to the send-'em-to-the-principal school of management. "They aren't chain of command-oriented," said Steven E. Lurie, head of Lurie Executive Development, a coaching firm based in Valley Stream, L.I.
If learning to use influence rather than raw aggression is a frequent proximate cause for calling in a coach, failing to make the mental leap from technician to leader is another. One of Mr. Lurie's recent success stories, as he described it, was a manager in a small organization who had recently taken over the leadership of a team, and soon found himself at the center of struggle and tension. "There was a lot of internal competition," Mr. Lurie said. "He couldn't get straight answers or information from people, even though he was very open and available -- the opposite of the previous boss."
THE problem turned out to be that he thought his job was to tell his "direct reports" how to do their jobs. His employees felt insulted and devalued. "They were professionals who needed to be left alone," Mr. Lurie said. The boss was panicked because he didn't know how to prove his effectiveness without measurable results, like sales figures, to show. "That's pretty typical of business men and women I deal with," Mr. Lurie said. "They get rewarded for very tangible accomplishments. Leadership is habitually referred to as the soft stuff." The executive's developmental leap, as Mr. Lurie called it, was to be willing to trade his tangibles for "just" being a leader.
Feedback played an important role in helping the executive modify his style. His employees noted his ability to bring them together as a team, to keep the unit visible at the corporate level and to garner good community relationships.
For Phico's Mr. Milo, who has brought the Hay Group's program in-house so that all Phico managers may go through it, what he learned about feedback of all sorts may be the most valuable lessons of the seminar. He has already instituted more recognition programs so superachievement is acknowledged. And the strategic core competencies -- the ability to influence, for example -- rather than technical ability may become the basis of performance reviews. "The biggest skill sets are coaching, counseling, giving and getting feedback and giving recognition," Mr. Milo said, adding, "We're looking for managers to understand the impact they have on people."
 
 
 
WHAT COACHING CAN'T ACCOMPLISH
IT is not impossible to coach a person's career back to life, but most executive development experts say companies should not regard coaching as the last chance for the employee to avoid being cashiered. "Sometimes it's hard to ascertain the true motives of a company," said Martin Leshner, a development expert at the Hay Group. "I ask them not to send people they have trouble with. It's an especially bad idea if the person goes and doesn't do well." The message to other employees can be that coaching means their careers are on the line.
Steven Lurie, head of his own executive development firm, frequently sees valued employees who are stalled for one reason or another, but he too is leery of taking on lost causes. "If the person has no real future, but the company feels bad about not giving him feedback for 20 years, then it's a nonintervention," he said. "If you want a 9 and he's a 3, it probably doesn't make sense."

GRAPHIC: Photo: People skills, not technical skills, are key when going up the ladder, says Martin Leshner of the Hay Group. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HAY GROUP INC (55%); HAY GROUP UK HOLDINGS LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (53%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



558 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Faring Well in Good Times and Bad

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:
TO Brian C. Rogers, manager of the T. Rowe Price Equity-Income Fund, the recent rout was welcome: prices have retreated so far that he sees value in the stock market for the first time in two years.
With prices down, yields are up and that is all-important to this fund, which relies on high-dividend-paying stocks plus a small chunk of bonds. The fund's yield, now 3.9 percent, hasheldit up in down markets. Price Equity-Income has the distinction of being a fund that has stayed the course in good times and bad. 
 Price Equity-Income returned 12.4 percent a year, on average, for the five years ended March 31, according to Morningstar Inc., Chicago-based fund researchers. That compares with a 10.6 percent gain for its peers.
But more compelling is the fund's performance in market slides. In a study by Morningstar of the 454 diversified domestic equity funds in four months in which the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell more than 5 percent (October and November 1987 and January and August 1990), Price Equity-Income had the fifth-smallest loss among all the funds, at 28.9 percent. Over all, equity-income funds lost 34.3 percent on average in those months, while growth funds lost 44.6 percent. In this year's tough first quarter, the fund fell 2.8 percent, compared with an average of 3.8 percent for the group.
In mid-March, Mr. Rogers began buying stocks, trimming the fund's cash position to 10 percent from 15 percent. "The severity of the declines has created a lot of opportunity," he says.
His recent purchases have been concentrated in three sectors. First is financial services companies "because the sector has been weak as interest rates have risen." His favorites include Travelers because of its recent merger with Primerica; Mellon Bank, which is negotiating to buy the Dreyfus Corporation, a mutual fund sponsor, and National City in Cleveland, which Mr. Rogers calls an unusual shareholder-oriented bank.
Mr. Rogers also sees value among pharmaceutical companies, whose prices have been under severe pressure because of the Administration's health care plans. He says the trend toward noninvasive surgery should benefit the group, and he likes three companies that he says have "bulletproof balance sheets": American Cyanamid, which recently spun off Cytec, its specialty chemical business, and acquired a stake in Immunex, a biotechnology firm; Schering-Plough, and American Home Products, which has a big business in over-the-counter drugs, including Advil and Dimetapp.
Mr. Rogers has also been buying utilities, one of the first quarter's hardest-hit sectors, whose losses he attributes to the bond market's dive. Prices have dropped so much that yields have risen to the 6 1/2 to 7 percent range, but he cautions that utilities probably are a short-term opportunity only, perhaps through this year. His high weighting in utilities (10.3 percent), he says, is unusual for the fund. Among the utilities he likes are Pacificorp in Portland, Ore.; Florida Progress in St. Petersberg, and Baltimore Gas and Electric.
The fund is well-diversified, holding roughly 110 stocks with exposure to most sectors of the market. And when Mr. Rogers buys a stock, he generally holds on; turnover averages just 24 to 35 percent a year, compared with a group average of 61 percent.
So it's not surprising that he says one of the most important lessons he has learned about managing money is to be patient. "I see a lot of mutual fund cash-flow figures," he says, "and I think that too many investors have inappropriate time horizons."
About 80 percent of the fund is currently invested in stocks, with 10 percent each in convertible securities or bonds and in cash, a usual mix for the fund.
Mr. Rogers takes a cool approach to the stock market. "I've never been a raging bull or doom-and-gloomer," he says. "I try to ferret out interesting situations and hope that the market recognizes them."
He looks for companies that sell at no more than 10 times earnings and have good capital structures for their industries. Simply being cheap isn't good enough; the fundamentals must be strong. "The lesson provided by I.B.M. is a good one," he says.
To build yield, Mr. Rogers looks for companies with unusually high yields relative to how the stock usually trades, aiming for an average of 4.5 percent. His overall target is a yield 25 percent above the average for the S.& P. stocks, now roughly 2.8 percent.
Mr. Rogers also has a strict sell guideline: when relative yield drops, out goes the stock. In the first quarter, he sold Ford Motor, John Deere and Scott Paper -- "three cyclicals whose stock had done quite well, so as their prices rose, their yields fell relative to the S.& P. as well as to the company's own yield histories," he said.
Right now, the fund is 5 percent invested in junk bonds, the maximum permitted by its charter. Mr. Rogers sees the investments as "interesting corporate situations" and views them as "good bets versus the equity markets." Among them are CalFed, a California savings and loan that yields 10 1/2 percent, and Coltec, an aerospace equipment maker with a strong cash position and a 10 percent yield.
As for overseas holdings -- now 8 percent -- the fund generally sticks to the A.D.R.'s of big companies with worldwide operations, like British Petroleum, Royal Dutch/Shell and British Telecom.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian C. Rogers of the T. Rowe Price Equity-Income Fund. (T. Rowe Price)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); PNC (NYSE) (63%); BK (NYSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PRICE, T ROWE, EQUITY-INCOME FUND DREYFUS CORP (84%); MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (63%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (63%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (52%); PFIZER INC (52%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICE, T ROWE, EQUITY-INCOME FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); MERGERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (63%); CHEMICALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; ROGERS, BRIAN C BRIAN C ROGERS (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



559 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Manager's Profile

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:

Brian C. Rogers
 
 Fund: T. Rowe Price Equity-Income Fund, $2.9 billion in assets. Manager since 1985 inception. (Sponsor: T. Rowe Price, Baltimore.)
 
 Born: June 27, 1955; Beverly, Mass. 

 Education: A.B. in economics and M.B.A., Harvard.
 
 Last Vacation: A week in Florida with family in March.
 
 Fund Performance: One year, through March: +5.2% (all equity-income funds: +2.8%); five years, annualized: +12.4% (+10.6%).*
 
 Stock Market View: * (self-rating; ***** = most bullish).
 
 Stock Pick: American Cyanamid because "it looks undervalued, and the new C.E.O. has been more proactive in restructuring the company."
 
 Current Strategy: "A good level of dividend income plus investments in reasonably valued companies with good growth prospects." *Source: Morningstar Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); BONDS (86%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (51%); 

PERSON: ROGERS, BRIAN C BRIAN C ROGERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



560 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Japan's Political Soup Is Gaining Some Clarity

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
Viewed from Washington, Japan's Prime Minister-designate, Tsutomu Hata, who is scheduled to take office tomorrow, has plenty of crises on his hands: a $60 billion trade surplus with America, North Korean neighbors with a penchant for nuclear weapons and an economic reform program that has drifted to a halt.
Seen from Tokyo, though, Mr. Hata's coalition faces a far more urgent problem: office space. Over the last two weeks, as Japan's second political Big Bang in a year blew apart existing parties, so many new political groupings formed that Parliament ran out of rooms to accommodate all of them. By latest count, there were 12 parties or parliamentary groups in the lower house, the highest number since 1948. 
 But the space squeeze is likely to be temporary. For last week the new shape of Japanese politics seemed to be emerging, even amid the chaotic political jockeying attending the selection of Mr. Hata; he replaces Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa -- the reformer forced to resign April 8 in a financial scandal of his own only nine months after ousting the long-ruling and corruption-tarred Liberal Democratic Party.
 
Let's Be Normal
 In the emerging new order, it looks like conservatives of various hues will be in and the old left wing out. And the force to be reckoned with is Ichiro Ozawa, the shadowy but brilliant strategist who with Mr. Hata runs the Shinseito (Japan Renewal) party.
Mr. Ozawa may be disliked by many for his previous role as shadow shogun of the Liberal Democrats, but he has enunciated a clear vision of where he wants the country to go. It is to become a "normal nation," with normal consumer prices, politicians who call the shots over bureaucrats, a willingness to engage in diplomacy and -- the catch for many -- a military that can join in international peacekeeping.
Mr. Ozawa is out to destroy the Liberal Democrats, or what's left of the party after he and Mr. Hata led a revolt last summer. And he is out to split the Socialists, now his coalition partners of convenience, who are apoplectic about his "normal nation" ideologically but willing to swallow some of it to stay in power.
By the time the arguing over Mr. Hosokawa's successor had died down, Mr. Ozawa had already inflicted another wound on the Liberal Democrats, luring about 5 percent of their more than 200 members to defect. He intends to eventually pull more L.D.P. fragments into his orbit, strengthening the coalition enough to throw out the Socialists. They, too, are breaking up -- a few to join Mr. Ozawa, a few to join the Communist party, and 50 or so middle-of-the-roaders desperately looking for a place in the new political constellation. Most guess that they will form something of a Liberal party, with the left wing of the old Liberal Democrats. Eventually, that may create three parties that can vie for power.
Would this new order make much difference outside Japan? Maybe, especially if one of the parties begins to explicitly appeal to consumer interests, or to debate a change in security policy. But it will take time. Meantime there's good news: With the recession on, there are a lot of empty offices downtown, just a five-minute -- and $10 -- cab ride to Parliament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); THE SOCIALISTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); THE SOCIALISTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); SCANDALS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (57%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (52%); PEACEKEEPING (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; OZAWA, ICHIRO MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



561 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Sunset for the Oil Boom And Alaska's Life Style

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE

 BODY:
Living off the lard of North America's largest oil field, the state of Alaska has created a modern superstate unlike anything the world has ever seen -- a sort of boreal welfare society in which people are paid to live and are given a monthly bonus if they make it past the age of 65.
Alaskans pay no state income or sales taxes. Home mortgages, even for mobile homes, have long been subsidized. High schools inside the Arctic Circle have Olympic-sized swimming pools. Some of the most remote bush communities have spanking new roads-to-nowhere, and there seems to be a satellite dish next to the moose antlers in every other home. 
 Oil transformed a largely backward state. It brought flush toilets to bush villages and college scholarships to Eskimo youths. On top of all that, the state has spectacular scenery, which is at its most wondrous in the midnight twilight of late spring.
But now, with depressed oil prices and a declining supply of North Slope crude, the free ride in the Last Frontier state is nearing an end. On paper, the government of Alaska is nearly broke -- facing a huge deficit caused by flat oil prices and a diminishing flow from the mother lode of Prudhoe Bay.
Empire builders without a blank check, Alaskans are being forced to go through the same shrinking of the frontier expansion dream that the rest of the country went through a century ago. But a state that still allows homesteading and lets residents kill up to four bears a year does not seem ready to accept an unbridled tomorrow.
While boasting of their independence, Alaskans have been spending nearly four times as much, per capita, on government as the average American state. During the 1980's, a decade of minimum restraint, the state went through more than $35 billion, building among other things a barley terminal that has yet to hold a kernel of Alaskan-grown grain and a performing-arts center that is in perennial financial trouble.
Alaskan politicians, most of them Republicans, are talking about establishing an income tax, or -- a prospect even more dreaded -- capping the dividend check that every man, woman and child in Alaska receives annually, averaging about $1,000 a person.
Beyond the immediate financial woes faced by a bewildered state legislature and Gov. Walter J. Hickel is the long-term problem of how to maintain the good life and the foundations of the superstate. All the new schools, roads, community centers, the six-figure salaries for policemen in the bush country, require a flow of income that Alaskans may not be willing to pay.
In contrast to the Jack London sourdoughs who are the mythic basis of the state's self-image, many Alaskans have never known anything but a tax-free state with high wages and endless perks. They are loath to change. Last week, for example, Anchorage voters defeated a proposal to levy a small tax on alcohol to pay for civic improvements.
"The great majority of Alaskans today are spoiled and pampered citizens accustomed to receiving more money from government than they pay to support it," wrote John Strohmeyer in his new book on Alaska, "Extreme Conditions," published by Simon & Schuster. Mr. Strohmeyer noted that one in five employees in Alaska is on a government payroll.
Even the harshest critics of Alaska's spending binge praise the state for having the foresight to create the Permanent Fund, a state savings account made up of oil royalties that is now at about $15 billion. State government cannot get at the fund without a vote of the people to amend the Constitution. A portion of its earnings are paid out in the annual dividend checks -- a windfall so dear to most Alaskans that the stores all peg their biggest sales to it.
"If they ever tried to stop the dividend checks, people would rise up in arms," said Thomas A. Morehouse, a professor at the Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of Alaska Anchorage. "The Permanent Fund stands out as the main achievement of the oil era."
Royalties from oil pay for 85 percent of Alaska's budget. This year's $3.2 billion budget was predicated on oil selling for about $18 a barrel, and every dollar below that figure amounts to a budget deficit of $150 million. Oil has been selling for about $14 a barrel.
 
Deficit and Debt
 In addition to the Permanent Fund, the state maintains a reserve fund of about $2 billion. To cover last year's deficit, the state took nearly $1 billion from the reserve fund, a move since ruled illegal by a state court. So while saddled with a deficit of nearly $600 million, the state must also pay back what it took from the reserve fund.
Production is down too. The flow of oil from Prudhoe Bay through an 800-mile pipeline to the port of Valdez peaked at more than 2 million barrels a day in 1988. It is now down to 1.6 million a day, and will fall to under a million in six years. Geologists say most of the 10 billion barrels that can be recovered from Prudhoe Bay will be drained by the year 2015.
The only bright spots have been world disasters or Middle East wars. During the Persian Gulf conflict, prices rose briefly to $35 a barrel. Governor Hickel proposed a series of projects ranging from railroad tracks across the tundra, to a water pipeline to Southern California.
But the gulf conflict was short, and with the collapse in prices, the dreams of Governor Hickel, considered the last of the original "boomer" politicians from the days when Alaska was still a territory, have also collapsed. No one thinks that waiting for the world to consume more oil, or for oil-producing nations to go to war, will get the state government through the next few months.
Openly, at least, no one hopes for war. "You go to bed hoping that all those one billion Chinese will soon trade in their bicycles for mopeds," said Chuck Logsdon, the chief petroleum economist for the state.
Mr. Hickel proposed a tax on wages, which was hooted out of the Legislature. He has now renewed his call to let Alaska sell its oil to foreign buyers, where it will fetch a greater price. By Federal law, Alaskan crude must be used for American consumers.
Major sacrifice in the form of spending cuts now seems to be an impossible chore for a legislature that Mr. Strohmeyer called a "a frontier Tammany Hall."
Some steps have been taken. The longevity bonus, a $250 a month check to any Alaskan over the age of 65, will be phased out by the end of the 1990's. But going after entitlements of younger voters will be harder.
"The first politician to propose capping the dividend check is going to be out on the street," said Mr. Logsdon.
Tourism and fishing have grown rapidly in recent years, lessening the dependence on oil and inspiring a vision of state that does not look to a gold rush or an oil gusher to keep it flush.
But so much of Alaska has a half-finished look to it, particularly this time of year when the 16 hours of sunlight are melting away winter's cover to reveal the residue of last summer's pork barrel projects.
This year, the question of whether Alaskans are willing to start paying for some of what they have built will probably be up to the voters.
Representative Ron Larson, co-chairman of the House Finance Committee in Juneau, has introduced a bill that would let Alaskans vote on "our choice of evils," as he put it: an income tax, a sales tax or capping the dividend check.
"Alaska isn't poor," said Mr. Larson. "But when we were rich, we spent our money poorly. And now we've got to pay. So how will we do it? I have no idea, but strange things can happen under the midnight sun."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Until recently, the Alaska oil pipeline assured the state's prosperity. A monument in Valdez pays tribute to pipeline workers. (Paul Fusco/Magnum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARCTIC (73%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; NORTH SLOPE (ALASKA); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARCTIC (73%); ALASKA, USA (97%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); SALES TAX (71%); MOBILE HOMES (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



562 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-18
 
ATTACK AND RETREAT AT GORAZDE
Despite a NATO ultimatum to the Bosnian Serbs, they continued their attack on Gorazde. But United Nations officials said some Serbs began to pull back and promised compliance as the deadline approached. 1
 
CLINTON'S NEW FOREIGN FOCUS
President Clinton has been forced to shift his focus to respond to the situation in Bosnia and to try to salvage his Haiti policy, and it has brought a new level of involvement for him in foreign policy. 14 

The United Nations rejected a request for air strikes. 12
 
Russia dropped its reservations about a NATO response. 13
 
SOUTH AFRICA'S SEA CHANGE
After the South African elections, no African country will be ruled by a white minority. More important, there will be alliances and shifts in power that South Africans could hardly have imagined. 1
 
Nelson Mandela denounced some of his backers as criminals. 11
 
KOREA IS TOUCHY ISSUE FOR JAPAN
The issue of whether Japan would fully side with the United States in a confrontation with North Korea over nuclear arms is touchy for the new Japanese Government, and it could threaten the governing coalition. 3
 
Rwandan rebels say they accept a cease-fire. 9
 
A population meeting ended in disagreement over abortion. 18
 
Indonesians riot over Chinese economic influence. 4
 
A Chinese dissident was released for medical care. 6
 
American companies completed a trade fair in Vietnam. 18
 
Syria says Israeli feelers on peace do not go far enough. 8
 
National 20-34
 
REMEMBERING NIXON
Paying tribute to Richard M. Nixon, American and world leaders emphasized the 37th President's achievements in reconciling the United States with Communist powers, rather than the ignominy of his resignation from office. 1
 
A living will allowed Mr. Nixon to maintain control over his care. 28
 
A LIFE OF EXTREMES
In three decades, Richard Nixon tasted crisis and defeat, victory and ruin, and finally, a return to some measure of public esteem. A look at a politician who made an enduring mark on the century. 29
 
AN INTEREST RATE DISPUTE
A dispute has surfaced about whether the Federal Reserve is unnecessarily pushing up interest rates, keeping a million unemployed people out of jobs in the belief that the action is needed to control inflation. 1
 
HOWARD PRESIDENT RESIGNS
The president of Howard University, criticized for allowing a Nation of Islam officials to speak on campus and facing a move to oust him, resigned to lead the University of Texas at Dallas. 20
 
PRINCIPAL REINSTATED
A Mississippi judge ordered the reinstatement of a principal who was suspended because he let a student read a prayer over the school public-address system. 20
 
COUNSEL'S INFLUENCE
Six weeks after he joined the staff to stanch the Whitewater hemorrhage, Lloyd Cutler's influence on White House strategy has become unmistakable, with Hillary Clinton's breaking her silence and fielding every question reporters could come up with about her finances. 22
 
KEEPING WHITEWATER ALIVE
Floyd Brown is a one-man war raging on many fronts. Having constructed a $3 million cottage industry devoted to keeping the Whitewater affair alive and in the news, he deploys an array of weapons ranging from E-mail to stacks and stacks of documents. 22
 
TIMBER OR RECREATION?
Smokey Bear has put down his shovel and picked up market surveys, focus groups and other new tools of policy making as the Forest Service considers shifting from old-fashioned forestry to recreation. 22
 
Metro 35-42, 46
 
DRUGS, WHOLESALE
They come wheeling off the Henry Hudson Parkway and the Major Deegan Expressway, drug dealers, big and small, from New Jersey and upstate New York, from Connecticut and Pennsylvania and sometimes farther south, cruising in to Harlem to buy cocaine in what has become one of the biggest wholesale drug markets in the country. 1
 
TREATMENT FOR MENTALLY ILL
New York State will soon begin a program for the chronically mentally ill that delivers medical services directly to their homes, even if those homes are on the street. 35
 
THE JUDGE IS IN
People love to sue New York: last year the city was hit with 10,000 new cases, nearly a quarter of the court system's civil docket. So Judge Alfred Lerner of Queens has been deputized to spend three days a week clearing the backlog of cases in Manhattan. 35
 
Obituaries 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); HAITI (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); CHINA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); HAITI (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); CHINA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INFLATION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); LITIGATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); JUDGES (69%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); RELIGION (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (60%); ABORTION (51%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



563 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: GROWTH OF JOBS MAY BE CASUALTY IN INFLATION FIGHT

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
With the Federal Reserve pushing up interest rates, a disagreement has surfaced about whether the central bank might be trying unnecessarily to keep at least a million unemployed people out of jobs in the belief that this is required to hold down inflation.
Neither the Federal Reserve nor the Clinton Administration, which has endorsed the Fed's anti-inflation policies so far, would say they were in favor of bolstering unemployment. That would be damaging politically, and contrary to the job-creation goals of the Administration. 
 But with the economy growing strongly and the unemployment rate falling, the Federal Reserve has responded by raising interest rates three times since early February. Some economists argue that the Fed is overreacting to a decline in unemployment, asserting that falling joblessness has a much smaller inflationary impact than it did in the past.
"The Federal Reserve may be convinced that the inflation danger is closer than many of us in the economic profession think it is," said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Mr. Solow argues that unemployment can fall to seven million people before a shortage of workers begins to push up the inflation rate. But Federal Reserve officials say the danger point is eight million, and as unemployment has fallen toward that level, they have acted.
The connection between inflation and jobs is one of the most debated and elusive concepts in economics. No economist questions that at some point, unemployment will fall so low that the nation will lack enough people to apply for all the jobs that corporate America wants to fill. When that happens, companies compete for workers, bidding up wages in the process. The rising wages become the backbone of rising inflation.
The higher rates are intended to discourage borrowing and spending. They force business activity, and the economy, to slow down. Fewer jobs are created and unemployment rises.
At what point does the pool of unemployed workers become too small to satisfy the demand for new employees? That level seems to change with the decades. In the 1990's, the mass layoffs, the corporate downsizings and the reluctance of many companies to hire even when business is good may have lowered the threshold below what it was in the 1980's.
"My conclusion is that a good national target -- one that does not accelerate inflation -- is an unemployment rate of around 5.5 percent, or seven million people," Mr. Solow said.
If Mr. Solow's view guided the Federal Reserve's policy, the central bank might not be raising interest rates. But his opinion, which represents an important sector in economics, does not prevail at the Fed.
The central bank, with the backing of an equally important group of economists, has acted on the view that unemployment can become inflationary as it falls below 6.2 percent of the labor force, or eight million people. About 8.5 million people are now jobless, for a 6.5 percent unemployment rate, down from nearly nine million a year earlier.
For a country as large and complex as the United States, eight million unemployed people, whatever their frustrations, are really not stuck without jobs, in the view of Allen H. Meltzer, an economist with Carnegie-Mellon Institute, who endorses the Fed's decision to raise interest rates. "They are really all people between jobs," Mr. Meltzer said.
 
Workers in Transition
 Some of the unemployed are in the process of leaving one company and seeking a job with another, he said. Or they are going through a period of retraining, have left the labor force temporarily to have children or go to school, or perhaps they are part-time workers who dropped out for a while. "We need this pool to meet the normal demands of the labor market," Mr. Meltzer said.
 Sharing that view, the Federal Reserve pushed up interest rates on Feb. 4, again on March 22 and a third time last Monday. The increases were the first changes in interest rates by the central bank since mid-1992. Fed officials have noted several reasons for their actions. Strong consumer spending, rising factory production and a boom in housing could all accelerate inflation, which has been a mild 3 percent a year.
But jobs have been an overriding consideration, and the Federal Reserve's policy makers made that point in the minutes of their meeting on Feb. 4, the day they voted for the first rate increase. The policy makers expressed concern, the minutes said, that "margins of slack in labor and product markets, already reduced to fairly modest levels, would shrink further."
 
 
Less Demand for Workers
 This concern that inflation will rise as unemployment falls reflects lessons learned in the 1970's and 1980's, when the inflation rate rose as unemployment dropped to just below the current level. But in the 1990's, mass layoffs, greater use of labor-saving computers, and the sweeping reorganizations of many corporations may have greatly reduced the demand for workers, altering the old relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist, says he thinks this is the case. More than half of the nation's unemployed are not just temporarily between jobs, he said, but people stuck in unemployment. They are the unskilled, the chronically poor, or the victims of layoffs and forced retirements, or factory workers, clerks and middle managers whose jobs were eliminated forever as companies became more efficient.
"There seems to have been a permanent shift toward a weaker bargaining position for labor," Mr. Gordon said. He estimated that unemployment might be able to fall below seven million people before there was such a shortage of job applicants that they could demand higher wages. Before that happened, he says, many of the people now stuck in unemployment could be pulled into jobs, without driving up wages and inflation.
The Administration, caught in this debate, has not challenged the Federal Reserve view that inflation can kick in when unemployment falls below eight million. Rather, the Administration says the issue is moot for the moment. Last week, for example, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen suggested that the Fed could raise rates by another notch or two without weakening the economy and thus fostering more unemployment. The next day, the Federal Reserve announced its third rate increase.
"A divergence between the Federal Reserve and the Administration would come if the Fed, by continuing to raise interest rates, actually slows down economic growth while unemployment is still above eight million people," said Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 
 
Bad Memories of the 70's
 Mr. Reischauer said he shared the Federal Reserve's concern about the inflationary impact of falling unemployment. That concern is based particularly on the memory of the late 1970's. Then, as unemployment fell below 6 percent, the annual inflation rate shot above 13 percent. But since then, changes in corporate behavior may have altered the formula.
The Chrysler Corporation's approach to hiring illustrates this possibility. Chrysler is among a dozen or so big companies hiring today because the demand for their products is so strong. With employment set to rise to nearly 120,000, from 116,000 now, Chrysler plans to produce a record 3.5 million cars and trucks worldwide in 1996. That compares with 2.3 million in 1988, when employment was 130,000.
Labor-saving machinery permits the extra production with fewer workers. In addition, there has been hiring for third shifts and for the reopening of a plant in St. Louis. But what if demand for Chrysler vehicles surpasses 3.5 million? Will the company open more plants, or hire more people?
"No," said Wynn Van Bussman, a senior economist for Chrysler. "We don't want to go through the costly experience of cutting back again, when demand weakens. We have drawn a line at how far we will go in hiring and in adding factory capacity. If we can't satisfy demand -- well, there are plenty of auto makers around the world who can."


GRAPHIC: Inflation rates and unemployment rates, which generally move in opposite directions, are both edging down now. Usually, when unemployment falls, inflation rises as employers bid up wages to attact employees from a shrinking pool of applicants. Graph tracks the rates of inflation and of unemployment since 1978. (Source: Datastream) (pg. 24)
Graph: "STATISTICS: A Changing Relationship"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PRICES; SHORTAGES UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; SOLOW, ROBERT M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



564 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Political Notes;
Nonpolitical Visit to Israel Is a Campaign Oxymoron

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

 BODY:
New Jersey's Assembly Speaker, Chuck Haytaian, a candidate for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate, might still be millions of dollars shy of overtaking Senator Frank R. Lautenberg in fund raising. But for this week, at least, Mr. Haytaian is likely to surpass the Democratic incumbent in miles traveled.
Mr. Haytaian is to leave on Tuesday for an eight-day trip to Israel that he and his campaign staff say is a long-planned private visit. Even though no campaign aides are accompanying the candidate and no campaign money is being spent, Mr. Haytaian surely expects to squeeze political mileage out of his trip. 
 Mr. Lautenberg is Jewish and one of his political strengths is the state's bloc of Jewish votes.
Mr. Haytaian bristles at the notion that his trip to Israel is anything but a vacation. But accompanying the candidate and his wife, Joan, are four friends who know Israeli politics as well as New Jersey's.
The Haytaian entourage includes Sanford Hollander, a former state chairman of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith; David R. Kotok, a fund raiser for philanthropic and political causes who escorted Gov. Thomas H. Kean on a 1983 trip to Israel; Alan Steinberg, former policy adviser to the Assembly Republican majority and currently Assistant Commissioner for Economic Development, and Peter Sudler, a lawyer and real-estate developer.
 
Historic Mayoral Duet At Lincoln Center
 The scene: the men's room at the Vivian Beaumont Theater in Manhattan on the opening night of the Lincoln Center Theater revival of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "Carousel."
The cast: a bevy of theater types and a politician with a taste for the lyric arts.
"Did 'Carousel' come before or after 'Oklahoma!'?" one playgoer wondered, touching off a brief debate over the sequence of the Rodgers and Hammerstein canon. Then an authoritative voice broke over the room.
"No, 'Carousel' came after 'Oklahoma!' and before 'Allegro,' " said New York's No. 1 opera fan and Mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
His Honor was correct. And Mr. Giuliani had John V. Lindsay, the former president of Lincoln Center Theater and the last Republican mayor of New York City before him, to vouch for him.
"I don't believe ever in the history of the Beaumont men's room have two mayors used it at the same time," said Bernard Gersten, executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater. "It's all for the greater glory of the theater."
 
Stomping on the Budget Dramatized on the Air
 Using a series of campaign-style advertisements, one of the city's municipal unions is beginning a pre-emptive strike against Mayor Giuliani's budget and his plans to reduce the work force by 15,000 over 15 months.
Officers of Local 1180 of the Communications Workers of America said that three 30-second advertisements would begin on cable television and radio stations this week. The $100,000 campaign is expected to last through June, when the City Council traditionally votes on the Mayor's budget.
One television advertisement shows a large foot stomping on and crushing a miniature school and a miniature hospital, as a voice says, "With every service cut, New York becomes less attractive to new business and for every salary dollar cut, New York's economy loses $2.40."
Another begins with a computer printout of the city payroll, and snapshots of city workers with their families: "This is Rudy's list, 15,000 people who work for New York City. Some are your friends, neighbors, family. And if Rudy gets his way, they will all lose their jobs this year."
Asked about the ad campaign last week, Mr. Giuliani said that just a month ago the unions had supported his plan to use severance packages to lure 7,600 workers off the city payroll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) LINCOLN CENTER (76%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (55%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (55%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (55%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (55%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (55%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (55%); B'NAI B'RITH INTERNATIONAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (86%); THEATER (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); REAL ESTATE (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; HAYTAIAN, GARABED (CHUCK) (SPEAKER) FRANK LAUTENBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



565 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: New Bidding On Coliseum Is Weighed

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said yesterday that reopening of the bidding process on the long-delayed New York Coliseum development project might be the best way to insure that development proceeds there.
In a letter to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Peter E. Stangl, chairman of the authority, which owns the property, said his optimism was fading that a renegotiated transaction with Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the developer of the project, could be achieved. 
 "Given the difficulties," Mr. Stangl said, "I have come to the conclusion that rebidding the site may be the best option for achieving our mutual objective of economic development."
A spokesman for the transit agency, John Cunningham, said Mr. Stangl's call to reopen the bidding on the site did not mean that the authority was inclined to relieve Mr. Zuckerman of his obligation either to come to an agreement over a renegotiated price or to relinquish his $33.8 million down payment.
 
City Is Disappointed
 Paul Crotty, the city's Corporation Counsel, was preparing a response to Mr. Stangl's letter but did say that the initial response was that the city was disappointed.
"We disagree with the M.T.A.," he said. "We think a deal can still be done."
Mr. Zuckerman, who owns The Daily News, has a contract to build a 2.1-million-square-foot mixed-use development on the Coliseum property, at 59th Street and Columbus Circle. But for more than a year, Mr. Zuckerman has been trying to renegotiate the agreement, seeking to build a smaller project at a price lower than the $338 million called for in the contract. If Mr. Zuckerman does not close on the deal, he stands to forfeit to the authority the $33.8 million down payment.
The authority and Mr. Zuckerman have agreed to a new purchase price of $100 million for half the site; included in the price is a $20 million city subsidy from annual tax payments generated by the project. The authority, the city and Mr. Zuckerman have been at odds over terms of a renegotiated transaction.
In a letter to the Mayor last week, Mr. Stangl said that while there were still matters to be settled, the parties were very close to striking a deal. But yesterday's letter said that despite the few issues that separated the authority and Mr. Zuckerman, they could not come to terms on a down payment in a renegotiated transaction.
The primary concern of Mr. Zuckerman and his associates, Mr. Stangl said, "is to minimize their down payment under the new transaction since we would keep this money were they unable or unwilling to proceed."
Mr. Stangl also said the negotiations had been complicated by the lawsuit that Mr. Zuckerman filed last month against the authority and the city, saying that the existing contract was not valid because they had failed to satisfy contract conditions.
Although he rejected a plan offered by City Hall last week to allow bidders an opportunity to top Mr. Zuckerman's bid if a new deal is struck, Mr. Stangl did agree to join the city in having an "analysis of the fairness of the project."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); LITIGATION (67%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; STANGL, PETER E; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



566 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: DuPont Adds $214 Million in Payments to Farmers Over Fungicide

BYLINE: New York Times Regional Newspapers 

 BODY:
Du Pont has agreed to pay $214 million to 220 farmers who said their crops had been ruined by a fungicide from the company.
The settlement, announced on Friday, eliminates nearly half the suits against Du Pont in connection with the fungicide, Benlate DF, which was recalled in 1991. Since that year, when the crop damage was first reported, Du Pont paid more than $500 million to farmers. 
 Du Pont said that it accepted no liability in the settlements and that Benlate was safe. The company, headquartered in Wilmington, Del., said it was cheaper to settle the cases than contest them in trials.
"Winning jury trials does not always justify the economic costs required to uphold the integrity of our product," said a senior vice president and special counsel, John F. Schmutz.
In addition to the suits settled on Friday, 70 others have been settled, dismissed by judges or reached trial.
The settlement was announced on Friday, four days after Florida officials said that they had proved that Benlate was contaminated with a potent weedkiller.
Agriculture Commissioner Bob Crawford, who faulted Benlate for $1 billion in crop losses in Florida, said on Friday: "This settlement will help a substantial number of growers to put their farming operations back in order. This is a responsible step. I urge Du Pont to settle the remaining cases and close the chapter on Benlate."
 
Dispute Over Damage
 Du Pont paid at least $510 million in damage claims to growers -- $400 million of that total in Florida -- after a recall in 1991. The company then announced in November 1992 that it was stopping all payments and that its research had proved that Benlate had not caused damages reported by 2,100 growers in 40 states.
That announcement prompted a flurry of suits against the company.
Mr. Crawford announced on Monday that his scientists had proved that Benlate was contaminated with a class of weedkillers, sulfonylureas, that kills plants in extremely low doses.
Du Pont, the leading manufacturer of the weedkillers, denied the state's contention that the fungicide was contaminaed and said Mr. Crawford's announcement had nothing to do with the settlement, which it said had been negotiated over months.
Farmers welcomed the announcement. "I'm terribly relieved," said Carol Murphy, a fern grower in DeLand who was among those who settled. "It's been a long road, and I'm just happy it's all over. I can get on with life."
The 220 growers involved are represented by Kevin Malone, a lawyer from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., who won in two jury trials against Du Pont last year. Mr. Malone said 110 growers were from Florida, 25 from the Caribbean or Costa Rica and the rest from Hawaii.
 
Victory in Blueberry Case
 In the last year four juries in Florida and one in Arkansas have found Benlate responsible for crop losses, but the awards were generally smaller than the amounts that the farmers sought. The largest award was in Arkansas, where 30 vegetable farmers were awarded $10.65 million, of which $3 million was for punitive damages.
The lone court victory for Du Pont was in February, when a jury in Florida found the company not liable for $5.5 million in damages sought by a group of blueberry farmers in Lakeland.
The total of $476 million in after-tax costs beyond Du Pont's insurance coverage makes the Benlate case the most expensive pesticide recall. Mr. Schmutz, the Du Pont lawyer, said, "This is a sad commentary that once again illustrates just how badly this country's tort-law system is out of control."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); COSTA RICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); COSTA RICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FUNGICIDES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BENLATE (FUNGICIDE) CHEMICALS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); LITIGATION (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (66%); 

PERSON: BOB CRAWFORD (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



567 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Japan Split Over Role in a North Korea Showdown

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 23

 BODY:
As Japan struggled to form a new government over the last two weeks, a long-brewing dispute broke out within its fragile governing coalition over an issue that has also seized the attention of the Clinton Administration: if sanctions are imposed on North Korea or a military confrontation develops with it, is Tokyo ready to side fully with the United States?
That question was at the top of Secretary of Defense William Perry's agenda when he met on Friday with Tsutomu Hata, who is expected to be formally approved as Japan's Prime Minister on Monday. Japanese and American officials provided little detail of the discussion, but Mr. Perry said after the meeting that he was certain "we would want and we would get full support" from Japan. 
 A number of American officials have privately expressed their doubts, however, saying the issue is so sensitive in Japan that it could bring down the fragile government.
The arguments over North Korea have quickly come to symbolize a much broader debate touched off by Japan's most powerful behind-the-scenes politician, Ichiro Ozawa, over whether Japan is ready to become a "normal nation." In Mr. Ozawa's definition, that would include a willingness to join the United Nations or the United States in peacekeeping and perhaps in assuring regional security.
 
Socialists Are Opposed
 The Socialists, the biggest party in the coalition, have opposed that initiative, calling it a breach of Japan's "peace Constitution," and have objected to any effort to cut off the flow of $600 million to $1.6 billion a year sent from Japan to North Korea.
Because of the extreme political delicacy of the issue, the Japanese Government has largely resisted quiet suggestions from the United States and South Korea that it use existing currency-control laws to limit the flow of funds to North Korea.
Most of the money, which accounts for a substantial percentage of the North's national economy, comes from the 300,000 Korean-Japanese living here who profess some loyalty to the North Korean leader, Kim Il Sung.
American intelligence officials believe that some of the cash ostensibly sent by the Korean-Japanese to aid relatives in North Korea is helping to finance North Korea's nuclear weapons project. But last week, just days before Mr. Perry's arrival, the Japanese police moved for the first time against a small company believed to have sent a bit more than $100,000 to North Korea without making required reports to the Japanese authorities.
The bigger concern for the United States is whether it could use its bases in Japan to enforce an embargo or launch military action against the North in case of hostilities on the Korean Peninsula. American military and diplomatic officials here have been sketching out such scenarios for months, though they have said little about it for fear of undermining Japan's fragile Government.
 
Law Restrict U.S. Actions
 Under existing Japanese laws and regulations, American military forces are prohibited from using Japanese aviation fuel, Japanese hospitals or Japanese ammunition in their operations from bases here.
Moreover, under the 34-year-old security treaty between the two countries, the United States would not be permitted to run continuous combat operations from their bases here, and might not be able to use them to enforce an economic embargo against North Korea, American military planners say. Japan's own navy would not be permitted to resupply American forces at sea.
In recent weeks, Japanese officials have gone to some lengths to offer private assurances that if the North Korean situation worsens, laws and rules will quickly be changed. But American and some Japanese officials fear that the changes could come too late and would be quickly enmeshed in a heated national debate over Article IX of Japan's Constitution, which has always been interpreted as banning such action by the military.
"They say they are with us," said a senior American official who has been deeply involved in the issue. "But I think all of us have our doubts, especially given the weakness of the current Government."
Military officials here note that since 1988 the United States and Japan have been negotiating a cross-servicing agreement that would allow for routine use of each other's supplies and installations -- similar to agreements the United States has in Malaysia, Thailand and South Korea -- but that it has run into political obstacles on both sides of the Pacific.
 
Politicians Are Quiet
 Except for Mr. Ozawa, who is the closest ally of Prime Minister-designate Hata, Japanese politicians have said almost nothing in public about the North Korean threat beyond making vague promises to act "within Japanese law" if the United Nations imposes sanctions.
But in the last week Mr. Ozawa has repeatedly complained that the country has no institution for crisis management -- a decades-long taboo on security issues here has prevented the formation of a national security council or a unified intelligence operation -- and has warned that the country must get legally and psychologically prepared for the possibility of a confrontation off its own coast.
"If it comes to a trade embargo and a maritime blockade, we can't do anything unless we are prepared to reform domestic law with emergency legislation," Mr. Ozawa said during a meeting last week with other coalition leaders.
His effort to get the coalition to agree to prepare such legislation failed. A lengthy and bitter argument with the Socialists concluded with a vaguely worded agreement to consult closely with the United States and South Korea and other Asian countries.
Mr. Ozawa's opponents and even the Asahi Shimbun, the country's most liberal daily, have accused him of using the North Korean crisis to expand the role of Japan's forces and bend the Japanese Constitution. Japan's 1960 security treaty with Washington was intended as a one-way document obligating the United States to come to Japan's military aid, not the other way around, they note.
If emergency measures are approved, the newspaper said in an editorial on Friday, Japanese military involvement "would become a permanent fixture every time American troops took action purportedly on the basis of the Japan-U.S. security treaty."
 
An Alarming Prospect
 Most of the Socialists have acknowledged that if the United Nations imposes sanctions, Japan will have to go along. But several have expressed alarm at the prospect that the United States may seek help from South Korea and Japan in imposing sanctions outside a United Nations framework if China or other countries block any action by the Security Council.
Mr. Perry raised that possibility for the first time after a speech in Tokyo on Friday, saying that if the United Nations was unable to act, "I think we would seek a way to impose multinational sanctions, even if it did not include every nation in the world."
Japanese Government officials say that would violate a longstanding ban on taking part in collective security arrangements. But privately their biggest concern is not standing out.
Some express fear that some in the Korean community here would incite acts of terrorism if there was an effort to stop the flow of funds. Foreign Ministry and security officials in Tokyo have been meeting regularly to track the activities of the Chosen Soren, the main North Korean organization in Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A dispute over U.S. policy on North Korea could threaten Japan's fragile new leadership. A woman in Tokyo watched a news program on Friday reporting the coalition's choice of Tsutomu Hata as prime minister. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; FINANCES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); PEACEKEEPING (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



568 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: On Sunday;
Can't Be Sold Or Bought Or Bothered

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY J. McLARIN 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
IN June New Jersey's black voters will go to the polls for the first major election since Edward J. Rollins Jr. boasted they could be bought for the price of a preacher. Will they turn out in droves, in righteous torrents, churning the anger that Mr. Rollins provoked into a bold show of black political power?
"No," said Samuel Kelly, as he leaned against a building in South Trenton on a sunny Thursday morning. "I figure that done passed over." 
 Mr. Kelly is no political pundit, but he may be on to something. Outrage swelled in the state like a blister last November, when Mr. Rollins told a group of Washington reporters that he had orchestrated Christine Todd Whitman's victory in part by suppressing black voter turnout. Mr. Rollins quickly retracted, insisting he had not, in fact, made judicious payments to black ministers to keep any pro-Jim Florio ruminations to themselves. But that hardly quieted the furor.
News conferences and faxes abounded. Lawsuits were filed. Congregants and clergy, state legislators and national leaders all bristled with indignation at the suggestion that ministers and elections could be bought, and that New Jersey politicians were accustomed to buying.
And then the Rollins story blew over, and a Federal investigation found no evidence of such payments. So what, if anything, is the lasting impact of Hurricane Ed? Will voter registration swell? Too early to tell. Will legislators forge a new alliance with maligned black clergy members and tackle urban ills? Unknown. Have civic groups been galvanized? The state N.A.A.C.P. did announce plans for a voter registration drive, but canceled the news conference because of a snowstorm and never rescheduled it.
In a year in which Nelson Mandela will vote -- for the first time in his life -- half the black voting-age population of New Jersey will not.
At 66, Mr. Kelly said he was old enough to remember Jim Crow laws and to believe that all people, especially all black people, should vote. But he knows why some people say they cannot be bothered:
"They feel like why should they vote? They feel like whoever gets in, it's not going to help us. But they shouldn't feel that way."
Sonia Jarvis, executive director of the National Coalition on Black Voter Participation in Washington, said voting patterns flow not along racial lines, but economic ones.
"When you're struggling to survive, voting is not at the top of your list," she said. "That's just it."
People who own homes are likelier to vote than those who rent. People with college degrees are likelier than those without, and people over age 35 likelier than those under 35. So, too, black people, who land more often on the dim side of those demographics than whites, tend to vote in lower percentages.
Ms. Jarvis said she wished that instead of proclaiming dismay, lawmakers and civic leaders had seized the Rollins moment for something concrete -- say, a voter registration drive or laying the groundwork for the Voter Registration Act of 1993, known as the "motor voter" law.
The new Federal law, which takes effect next January, will require states to let driver's license applications also serve as voter registration forms, and to put registration forms in libraries, welfare offices and other public places. Proponents estimate that as many as 50 million new voters will be added to the 136 million now registered. But much work remains to be done in putting the law into practice.
"That's the way to take it to the next level," Ms. Jarvis said. "Why not stand up and say New Jersey is going to get 100 percent behind this law?"
New Jersey lawmakers did do something concrete. Over the howls of Democrats and black leaders, the Republican legislative majority passed a law requiring that the volumes of street money that grease Election Day politics in New Jersey be handled by check instead of cash. The change will inhibit fraud, the Republicans said. But Ms. Jarvis predicts it will further chill black participation by thinning the ranks of the "get out the vote" foot soldiers in cities.
"For too many of our citizens without access to a bank account, check cashing is not automatic and costs money," she said.
This fall's United States Senate race may tell.
Meanwhile in this capital city, where decaying row houses stand within blocks of the gilded State House dome, the first black mayor seeks re-election against the white widow of a longtime and popular mayor. The race has drawn the attention of Irma Smith, 78, who passes most days at a senior center. Mrs. Smith said she had voted in every election she could remember. When asked which vote seemed most important, she could not recall.
"No one in particular," she said. "If it comes to a vote, I'm out there to vote. They're all important to me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RELIGION (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%); 

PERSON: MCLARIN, KIMBERLY J; ROLLINS, EDWARD J JR; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



569 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Barriers to Immunization Peril Children, Experts Say

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
Barriers to immunization are leaving millions of children needlessly at risk of measles, whooping cough, polio and other potentially serious diseases, a panel of experts has warned.
In a report made public on Tuesday, the panel, of the Institute of Medicine, said fewer than 70 percent of the country's 2-year-olds have all their recommended inoculations because of the failure of doctors, parents and health agencies to make sure children are protected. It said the barriers included factors besides the availability of vaccines and their costs. 
 "We know that underimmunized children are experiencing illnesses that could be avoided and that some may be suffering severe consequences, even death," Dr. Lorraine V. Klerman of the University of Alabama, chairman of the eight-member panel that wrote the report, said at a briefing here.
Children and their families are confronted with a variety of barriers that keep youngsters from getting the preventive care they need, she said. These include lack of access to health care, lack of insurance that covers vaccinations and outmoded practices at clinics and doctors' offices that make it difficult to keep children on schedule for the many inoculations they need in early life.
 
Praise for Clinton Program
 The report praised President Clinton's Childhood Immunization Initiative, for which Congress appropriated more than $800 million this year. The effort provides free vaccines to the uninsured and those on Medicaid and promotes education programs and efforts to improve the availability of inoculations. But the report added that "removing the financial barriers will not, by itself, achieve full immunization of preschool children."
In a Rose Garden ceremony on Wednesday intended to focus attention on the issue, the President said that the United States badly trails most of the world in immunizing children, Reuters reported.
Mr. Clinton noted that the problem is especially serious in some poor urban and rural areas, the news agency said, and called the illnesses resulting from this failure "a health disaster and a human tragedy."
The Institute of Medicine, part of the National Academy of Sciences, said in its report that data from the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that vaccination problems involve not only the poor but also all racial, ethnic and economic groups. In 1992, for example, 75 percent of all 2-year-olds not immunized against measles were white, and 72 percent were in families with incomes at or above the poverty line.
 
Signal of Health Problems
 "A case of measles or diphtheria in a child is like the death of the miner's canary -- both signal problems in the environment," Dr. Klerman said. "The miner's canary dies because gases are present that might affect the miner. Cases of a vaccine-preventable disease signal problems in the health care environment."
More than 90 percent of the nation's babies begin their immunizations on schedule, the panel said, but return visits for subsequent inoculations fall off, indicating a need for programs to insure compliance.
 
Tracking Systems Urged
 The panel said more than 90 percent of the children in the United States are properly vaccinated before the age of 5 because it is required for school attendance. The report said states, which bear primary responsibility for public health programs, should mount similar campaigns to vaccinate younger children. It recommended that immunization records be tracked by computer to insure proper follow-up.
The report said doctors and clinics also have to do a better job of tracking the immunization status of children and reminding parents when their children need each inoculation in the series of 15 or so shots required from birth to 2 years of age.
The panel further urged that doctors re-examine such practices as giving vaccinations only on specially scheduled visits. These can be inconvenient and lead to missed opportunities for giving shots during other office visits, the panel said.
In addition, it said, health agencies need to establish programs that remove barriers to proper vaccination. One such program would be to keep clinics open at night and on weekends for working parents; another would be to reach cultural minorities about the importance of immunization.
 
Need for Parental Education
 The report said the Federal Government and the states should also consider cooperating with private health and advocacy groups to educate parents about the benefits, and occasional risks, of vaccination. In addition, it said immunization should be a part of any plan for overhauling the health care system.
The National Immunization Campaign, a private vaccination effort working with local coalitions in 16 cities to improve inoculation rates, endorsed the report and called for more grass-roots programs to get communities involved.
"We know that cost is not usually the primary barrier to immunization services," said Jennifer Perry of the Children's Action Network, a group supported by the entertainment industry and corporations that sponsors the campaign. "We think vaccine initiatives designed for and by groups in particular communities are some of the best ways to change people's awareness and behavior about immunization to improve child health."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (84%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (84%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (91%); VACCINES (91%); MEASLES (90%); WHOOPING COUGH (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); APPROPRIATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



570 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: Sports, Money, Politics -- A special report.;
New Jersey's Sports Empire: New Fields, Hard Times

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
The Meadowlands sports complex, rising from swamps and garbage dumps 20 years ago, was a perfect antidote to New Jersey's image as a second-rate place with smelly air and dirty politics.
Out of a wasteland where legend said only discarded mercury and dead mobsters could be found, the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority mined riches, attracting four professional sports franchises to its world-class arenas. 
But horse-racing revenues have tumbled, and the authority has gone from self-sufficiency to the public dole. It has grown, too, from a purveyor of entertainment in the Meadowlands to an ambitious developer of sports and tourism projects statewide, most with high political sponsorship.
 
A Familiar Theme
 The dependence on public subsidies has brought an increasing measure of politics, influencing the authority's hiring and shaping its policy. Its critics say the sports authority made a pact with the devil, serving Trenton's purposes in exchange for access to tax money, allowing politicians to pay for expensive projects without a public referendum.
Now, struggling under debt and the exploding competition in the entertainment and gambling industries, the authority has a fresh strategy to bolster its finances. Its theme is familiar: to grow yet again, this time into an entertainment empire that excites images of Disney by the turnpike.
A master plan for the Meadowlands to be announced this week will propose construction of several new attractions, officials say. It contemplates pouring as much as $900 million in private capital investment into the complex over the next eight years, a top authority official said. That figure is nearly twice the $471 million already invested there since construction began in 1974.
Details are not public, but officials say the options include a theme park, a baseball stadium, television studios, virtual reality theaters, hotel and office space, and an outdoor concert arena. The plans also include a rail link from Secaucus to the Meadowlands.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who has previously criticized the growth of the authority, suggested during her campaign selling some of its operations or bringing in private companies to run them. Nevertheless Michael Francis, a Whitman fund-raiser who is the new authority chairman, said the Governor agrees with the proposed expansion because it is not expected to require greater taxpayer subsidies. The state subsidy, $17 million this year, is expected to rise to $26 million next year.
Around the country public money supports sports franchises, with local tax breaks or publicly financed stadiums. But until recently the New Jersey sports authority was self-sufficient and part of the justification for expansion is to erase its growing dependence on tax money. Private companies would pay for building any new attractions, Mr. Francis said. The authority would run them and share the profits. He said the Meadowlands must be reinvigorated with family-oriented attractions to stay competitive in the fight for people's leisure time.
 
New Attractions
Additional Forms Of Entertainment
 It is a crowded field, with Las Vegas becoming a destination for family fun and proposals for a new Disney theme park in Virginia and a $1 billion Blockbuster Park on the edge of the Florida Everglades.
"Entertainment is the new buzzword in terms of economic engine," said James W. Hughes, the assistant dean of Rutgers University's School of Planning and Public Policy. But, he added, building a compelling entertainment center is difficult. "They have to invent something the market wants," he said. "That becomes very risky."
According to Mr. Francis, the authority is ready to take the plunge. "I think you're going to see a substantial expansion of the sports complex into other areas and into other ventures," he said. He declined to comment on the flirtation with the New York Yankees, but said he has talked with several baseball teams about moving to the Meadowlands. Ms. Whitman has said that she would not use taxpayer money to lure the Yankees.
State officials scoff at a recent proposal by a New Jersey financier, Robert Brennan, to buy the complex for $1 billion and bring riverboat gambling to the Meadowlands.
In the entertainment industry, Mr. Francis said, the planned expansion would make the authority "a major, major player in the country and the world."
 
Increasing Stature
A Special Aura, Tied to Politics
 In New Jersey, an expansion would increase the authority's political stature. The sports authority already has more than 3,000 full- and part-time employees operating a $200 million-a-year business. It pays among the best public salaries in New Jersey, beginning with the $175,000 annually to Robert E. Mulcahy, its president and chief executive officer. In addition to his salary, which is more than twice the governor's $85,000 annual pay, the authority provides him with a driver and membership at the famed Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, N.J.
Authority officials defend the salaries, saying the agency competes with high-paying private companies. But some people it hires serve as a reminder that the authority -- while independent by law -- is tied to the political structure that created it.
Fifteen authority officials make as much as Governor Whitman or more, including a former aide to her predecessor Jim Florio; a construction manager whose hiring, authority officials have said, was directed by Florio administration officials, and a former Democratic legislator, also hired while Mr. Florio was Governor.
 
Little Scrutiny
 Certainly Mr. Florio was not the first governor whose associates found jobs at the authority. Mr. Mulcahy was Democratic Gov. Brendan T. Byrne's chief of staff before he left to head the authority 14 years ago. And when Gov. Thomas H. Kean, a Republican, switched top aides at the State House, the authority hired his exiting chief of staff, Lewis B. Thurston.
As a candidate, Mrs. Whitman criticized political influence at the authority. But since she became Governor the authority has given legal contracts to companies with Republican ties.
The growth of the authority has faced little scrutiny by state officials. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee, said authorities often grow far from their original purposes, and he said his committee would closely examine any plans for the sports complex.
"In some ways, they are more powerful than the elected officials in the municipalities, the counties and the state offices," he said of public authorities. "They have legions of lawyers and spin-makers paving the way for their continued expansion."
 
'A Personality of Its Own'
 New Jersey's rich and powerful have doted on the Meadowlands complex for decades, and the authority carries a special aura. Mr. Mulcahy, who sometimes wears a blue blazer with a sports authority emblem on the breast pocket, is keeper of that legend.
"It's come to signify New Jersey," said Mr. Mulcahy, who is widely credited with the success of the complex. "Wherever you go in the country, if I tell people I'm president of the Meadowlands, they understand that."
Former Governor Byrne said the complex has helped to give the state "a personality of its own."
The authority has been good to the politicians, too. Mr. Byrne's name endures on the Brendan Byrne Arena, the indoor arena at the Meadowlands. The state aquarium in Camden, built by the authority with taxpayers' money, is named for Mr. Kean.
 
Refinancing
Legislative Help Comes at a Price
 But no question, the name the authority was most desperate to promote was New Jersey's.
The Jets and Giants are New York teams by name, but authority officials have prodded television sportscasters to remind viewers that they play in New Jersey. A medallion saying "New Jersey Meadowlands" was placed at midfield to guarantee New Jersey air time during televised games.
The arena is a total New Jersey experience. It opened in 1981 with a concert by Bruce Springsteen, the state's unofficial poet laureate. Now it is home to the New Jersey Nets basketball team and the New Jersey Devils hockey team. During timeouts at Nets games, the crowd is entertained by a group of blue-sequined dancers called the Jersey Girls.
The complex, which draws an average of 7.5 million spectators annually, is in the top rank of stadiums nationwide. It will be the site of seven World Cup soccer games this summer and the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Final Four basketball competition in 1996.
The activity is sometimes dizzying. On a recent Saturday afternoon, the Devils played a match in the indoor arena while racing fans at the track bet on televised races from around the country. Another crowd was browsing at an outdoor market in the complex parking lot.
As the hockey game ended, the arena crew had about three hours to assemble the parquet basketball court directly on the ice before the Nets' 7:30 P.M. tip-off. At the track that night, there was also a full card of harness races. The total draw for the day: about 50,000 people.
 
Racing Profits Decline
 "It has a lot of glamour and excitement," said Cary Edwards, the State Attorney General under Mr. Kean and once an authority board member. "You've got sports teams and stars."
But the glamour has lost a certain glint. The Meadowlands has been hit hard by the national decline in horse racing, the sport that initially made it such a financial success. From 1977 to 1985 the authority paid $60 million in excess revenues into the state treasury. But amid the rise of casinos in Atlantic City and the expansion of the state lottery, racing profits at the Meadowlands fell from nearly $50 million in 1977 to just over $14 million in 1992.
As its finances deteriorated, the authority appealed in 1991 to the state for help. It got more than it bargained for.
Authority officials sought aid in refinancing the authority's debt. And they left the State House with a commitment that state taxpayers would guarantee -- and helping to pay -- the authority's debt.
But Trenton extracted its price. The Legislature and the Governor's office transformed the authority into a vehicle for financing and developing politically palatable projects. To pay for the expansion, the authority's debt more than doubled. It leaped from $352 million in 1991 to more than $865 million in 1992 -- all backed by the state.
Using the authority undoubtedly reflected the confidence the state had in its ability to manage large projects. But it also freed the lawmakers to borrow money for the projects without a public referendum.
 
Avoiding Public Votes
 The sports authority legislation passed in December 1991 called for the authority to construct a $254 million convention center in Atlantic City, to undertake a $29 million renovation of the Rutgers University football stadium and build other sports arenas there and oversee a $5 million fund for sports projects at colleges around the state.
"The Legislature would never have approved it if there weren't these sweeteners," said Mr. Frelinghuysen, the Assembly appropriations chairman, who opposed the measure. "In fact, they were so sweet that most legislators couldn't resist them."
Despite the economic development benefits of the projects, the decision to circumvent a public referendum drew sharp criticism.
"It all boils down to this: Who makes the decisions -- the politicians and the special interest groups, or people who end up paying the bills?" said Lucille Tyson, a Republican committeewoman in Piscataway, the site of the Rutgers Stadium. "In this case the answer is clear."
The sports authority has the perfect Jersey pedigree. Conceived in the administration of William T. Cahill, which was marred by corruption, it sprung up on land bounded by the notorious turnpike and mercury-contaminated swamps on the moonscape dividing the state's rusting industrial husks from its suburban promises.
 
Building an Image
 The growth of the complex was part of an attempt by New Jersey's leaders to liberate the state from New York's shadow and from its own sour image.
When New Jersey's first tried to sell bonds for the complex in 1973, it failed. The New York establishment, led by Nelson A. Rockefeller as Governor and David Rockefeller as chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank, persuaded Wall Street not to buy the bonds, for fear that sports teams and revenues would flow west across the river.
New Jersey's financial institutions eventually stepped forward to buy the paper, after Mr. Byrne, then Governor, pledged the state's moral obligation to back the debt.
Now as the authority plans its next expansion, the talk of a theme park and other attractions rankles some of the complex's protective parents.
"You put in a roller coaster and this and that, and pretty soon it's Coney Island rather than a dignified sports complex," Mr. Byrne allowed. "It exudes class, and we'd like to keep it that way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sparse audience watching horse racing at the Meadowlands sports complex in New Jersey. Tumbling revenues from the track have caused the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority to go from self-sufficiency to the public dole. (pg. 35); As horse-racing revenues have fallen, the New Jersey Sports Authority has come up with a new strategy to bolster finances: to grow again, this time into an entertainment empire, possibly including a theme park, baseball stadium and television studios. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) (pg. 38)
 
Map/Chart: "WHERE THEY ARE: Trophies for the Garden State"
 
Meadowlands Complex
East Rutherford
 The jewel in the authority's crown. Giants Stadium, home of the Giants and the Jets, opened in 1977, along with the Meadowlands Race Track. Brendan Byrne Arena, home of the Nets and the Devils, opened in 1981.
 
Rutgers Stadium
Piscataway
A $29 million renovation of the football stadium is being completed by the authority, which is also building soccer, lacrosse and track sites. The project was financed with authority bonds backed by the state.
 
Monmouth Park
Oceanport
 The race track was bought by the authority in 1985 for about $50 million.
 
Thomas H. Kean State Aquarium
Camden
 The aquarium was built by the authority and opened in 1992. It was financed through the state budget and is owned and operated by the state.
 
Convention Center
Atlantic City
 The $254 million center is being built by the authority, which will operate it as part of a plan to develop Atlantic City beyond casinos. It is to open in 1996. The construction is financed with authority bonds backed by the state. (pg. 38)
 
Graph: "LEDGER: A Cash Cow Gets Slimmer" tracks annual profits made by the Meadowlands Sports Complex since 1977. Does not include debt payments or administrative costs of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs the complex. Statistics are segmented according to profits made on the Meadowlands Race Track, Giants Stadium, and Brendan Byrne Arena. (Source: New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); SPORTS (93%); POLITICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (88%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); LANDFILLS (73%); HORSE RACING (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); FAMILY TRAVEL (69%); GOVERNORS (67%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (65%); REFERENDUMS (52%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; FRANCIS, MICHAEL; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



571 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
To First Fan's Delight, Deluge of Long Balls Has Yet to Slow Down

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The remarkable increase in home runs and runs scored this season has received the White House stamp of approval.
During a Rose Garden ceremony last week, President Clinton let some baseball people know he enjoyed the early-season deluge. 
 "When Len Coleman and I were introduced to him, he started talking about how he likes the hitting that's going on this year," Tony Bernazard, a former major league player and a Players Association official, related. "He liked that part of the game. He was very interested in the game the previous day between Boston and Oakland, where Mo Vaughn and Tim Naehring went back-to-back back-to-back. He was very excited about that. I was delighted to hear that the President keeps up with baseball and especially that he likes hitting so much because I like hitting myself."
For the Clintons, and the Bernazards, happily, there was no letup in the past week. The Red Sox feat Bernazard referred to was one of the week's hitting highlights and punctuated the most intriguing development within the multitude of home runs that players are hitting.
Vaughn and Naehring hit successive home runs twice in the same game, giving them a unique place on the mushrooming list of players who have hit at least two home runs in one game. On the first five days of the past week, at least two players a day each hit a pair, if not more (Tim Raines and Cory Snyder each hit a pair and a half.)
 
38 Multi-Homer Games
 Jeff Kent of the Mets, Andres Galarraga of Colorado, Raines and Eduardo Perez of California each performed the feat a second time. When Friday's games had been completed, players had amassed 38 multiple-homer games compared with 20 during the corresponding period last season and 19 in 1987, the major leagues' record home run season.
Players, entering yesterday's games, had hit a total of 497 home runs, or 2.26 a game, compared with 344, or 1.60 a game, at this time last year and 426, or 1.93 a game, in 1987. This season's production is up 44.5 percent from a year ago and 16.7 percent from 1987.
Runs? The total of 2,296, or 10.44 a game, marks a 19.1 percent increase over last year's 1,928, or 8.97 a game, and 15.6 percent over the 1987 total for the corresponding number of games, 1,987, or 8.99 a game.
The averages for the past week slipped slightly from the figures a week ago, but not enough for President Clinton to lose interest.
 
Whose Homerdome Is This?
 Some people say the ball is livelier, some say not. The Minnesota Twins evidently are playing with both balls.
When the Twins are in the field, the umpires must use the livelier version because Twins' pitchers have given up 33 home runs, by far the most in the major leagues. When Twins are batting, the umpires apparently substitute the old balls because Twins' batters have hit only eight home runs, fewest by far in the American League.
Scott Leius leads the team with two home runs; six other players have hit one each. One of those six is Dave Winfield, who hit his on opening day. It is believed to be the only home run ever hit by a 42-year-old member of the Twins whose wife (Tonya) is expecting twins.
 
Inflation Hits the Pitchers
 Not only young pitchers or marginal pitchers have contributed to the increased run production. Kevin Brown of Texas, a 21-game winner in 1992, has an 11.63 earned run average and an 0-4 record. Pete Harnisch of Houston, whose 2.98 e.r.a. was sixth lowest in the National League last season, has a 10.26 e.r.a. in four starts. Kevin Appier of Kansas City, the American League leader last season with a 2.56 e.r.a., is at 9.00 now.
Some other victims of, or contributors to, the offensive onslaught: Bob Ojeda of the Yankees 24.00, Todd Van Poppel of Oakland 16.61, Jose Guzman of the Cubs 16.43, Arthur Rhodes of Baltimore 10.95, Anthony Young of the Cubs 9.22, Pedro Astacio of Los Angeles 9.18, Tim Belcher of Detroit 9.17, Pat Mahomes of Minnesota 8.79, Kevin Tapani of Minnesota 8.27, Bill Gullickson of Detroit 8.22, Pat Doherty of Detroit 7.90, Mark Gubicza of Kansas City 7.71, Bobby Witt of Oakland 7.66 and Scott Erickson of Minnesota 7.48.
And those are the starters. Some relief earned run averages are eye-opening numbers as well: Alan Mills of Baltimore 24.92, Tony Menendez of San Francisco 22.50, Dave Righetti of Oakland 20.25, Mike Butcher of California 16.62, Edwin Nunez of Oakland 15.19, Mark Guthrie of Minnesota 15.00, Mark Davis of San Diego 13.50, Jim Bullinger of the Cubs, 13.50, Jonathan Hurst of the Mets 12.60, Blaise Ilsley of the Cubs 10.80, Brad Pennington of Baltimore 10.50, Steve Frey of San Francisco 10.38, Mike Timlin of Toronto 10.29, Mark Gardner of Florida 10.29, Xavier Hernandez of the Yankees 10.13.
 
Tewksbury Solves the Braves
 In defeating Atlanta on Wednesday night, Bob Tewksbury gained two distinctions of note: He became the first National League pitcher to beat a team in each of the three new divisions and he became the first pitcher to last an entire game against the mighty Braves.
Considering the way the Braves have played the first few weeks, the second achievement was more impressive.
"Everyone was talking about it like they were the '27 Yankees," Tewksbury said, discussing the task the St. Louis Cardinals faced when they went to Atlanta last week. The Braves won 12 of their first 13 games, then made it 13 of 14 in the opening game of the three-game series.
"But we rebounded against a two-time Cy Young winner," Tewksbury said, referring to a victory against Greg Maddux. "That gave us momentum going into the third game."
Which is the one he pitched. He allowed only three runs, less than half the 6.3 runs the Braves had averaged.
"We played great defense," the 33-year-old right-hander said. "That's how we beat them. They put the ball in play, and we handled it. They're good, but they're only human, too."
Tewksbury, who in the past two seasons compiled a 33-15 record, gained his fourth victory against no defeats, adding the Braves to his victories over Cincinnati, San Francisco and San Diego.
 
Mariners' Hands of Stone
 When Gene Michael, the Yankees' general manager, walked into the visiting manager's office at Yankee Stadium the other evening, the visiting manager smiled broadly and said: "You got a bill for the phone? I ripped that thing off the socket."
Lou Piniella, able to laugh about it the next day, had ripped the telephone to the bullpen off the dugout wall at the end of a game the Seattle Mariners lost because of errors.
"We're not catching the ball," Piniella lamented. "I don't have an explanation. Last year we led the league in fielding. In spring training we made the second-least errors in the majors. And all of a sudden we're not catching the ball."
The Mariners, whose 90 errors were the fewest in the majors last season, were considered a preseason favorite to win their first division championship. In their past failures, their problem has been a lack of hitting or pitching. Now that they have developed those necessary elements, they can't field the ball. They have the worst fielding percentage in the majors.
 
Where's the Relief?
 Duane Ward (Toronto), John Wetteland (Montreal), Rod Beck (San Francisco), Rob Dibble (Cincinnati), Gregg Olson (Atlanta), Norm Charlton (Philadelphia) and Alejandro Pena (Pittsburgh) are on the disabled list.
Dennis Eckersley (Oakland) no longer menaces opposition batters in the ninth inning. He and Darren Holmes (Colorado), a comparative newcomer, have provided the most glaring examples of the affliction that has struck closing relief pitchers who have remained healthy.
Can't anybody here save a game anymore?
Mitch Williams might have started it with his World Series failures last year (although Eckersley's ineffectiveness began last season). Williams squandered his first save opportunity of this season Friday night. The usually reliable Jeff Montgomery of Kansas City let a victory get away, too, Friday night.
"We have to develop a new batch of closers," said Lou Piniella, who has watched his alleged closers go 0 for 3 in save opportunities this season.
While younger relievers languish on the disabled list and other colleagues struggle in the ninth, Lee Smith keeps rolling along. The 36-year-old veteran, the career leader in saves, was supposed to be finished a few years ago because of unstable knees, but there's nothing wrong with his right arm.
While Williams and Montgomery were giving away games, Smith recorded his eighth save in Baltimore's ninth victory of the season, raising his career total to 409.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mo Vaughn (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA TWINS (50%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (77%); ATHLETES (77%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



572 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: A Life Lesson From Wall Street

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There is something deeply disturbing in the earnestness of the article about Lawrence Kudlow. Both its substance and tone provide further evidence that economic reporting increasingly consists of little more than accounts of sandbox play among members of an elite salon -- all of whom are quite disconnected from the realities of most Americans. To be sure, coping can become difficult when life throws someone an unwieldy amount of success or failure. Just ask any of those thousands of midlevel employees throughout the United States who have lost jobs in the name of productivity -- none of whom will ever be the subject of such a windy profile.
 
MATT ROHDE
Silver Spring, Md., April 5
 
The writer is a lawyer with the Federal Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ALCOHOL ABUSE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: KUDLOW, LAWRENCE A LAWRENCE KUDLOW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



573 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: April 17-23: U.S. and Haiti;
A Little Movement Toward Getting Tough

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Critics of President Clinton's Haiti policy got some of what they wanted last week: lots of attention and a few adjustments. Haiti's exiled President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, said it was "racist" for the Clinton Administration to summarily return Haitian refugees after intercepting them on the high seas. Randall Robinson, president of a black foreign-policy lobbying group, fasted for nearly two weeks to protest that policy and on Thursday six Democratic members of Congress were arrested after demonstrating outside the White House. 
 Stung by the criticisms, the Administration decided to press the United Nations to adopt a comprehensive embargo (the current embargo covers just fuel and arms), and it pledged to press the Dominican Republic to clamp down on oil smuggling into Haiti. But President Clinton refused to stop summarily repatriating Haitian refugees.
Stay tuned for more protests. STEVEN GREENHOUSE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aristide

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; HAITI (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); LOBBYING (69%); TRENDS (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARRESTS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



574 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONEY ISLAND;
Despite A Rebuff, Hope Springs Eternal

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE 

 BODY:
A springtime perennial from Coney Island, which just can't stop nurturing dreams, even in its decline (or perhaps because of it):
More than a decade ago, Horace Bullard, an optimistic Harlem-born entrepreneur, put together a plan to build a giant amusement park. In 1989 the Board of Estimate approved his plan. But last month the city withdrew its support, convinced that Mr. Bullard could not raise enough money to finance his $450 million dream. 
Mr. Bullard, though, remains an optimist. He says he is about to obtain the financial backing he needs, and on March 16 he sued in Supreme Court in Manhattan to win back the city's participation. The city had agreed to provide 17 of the 20 acres his project would take up along a strip facing the boardwalk between West 15th and 21st Streets.
Mr. Bullard, who started the Kansas Fried Chicken restaurant chain, said that after the city's withdrawal, Fuji Bank and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette sent him letters indicating that financial support was imminent. "Just when we have the money," he said, "the city wants to pull out."
But Catie Marshall, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the letters were "vague."
Like the old Steeplechase park, Mr. Bullard's project would offer attractions like a metal horse steeplechase plus restaurants and games. He said it would bring 3,000 construction jobs and more than 2,000 permanent jobs. G.P.-P.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Steeplechase in the 1960's. (Bettman Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CONEY ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

PERSON: BULLARD, HORACE HORACE BULLARD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994



575 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KINGSBRIDGE;
Armory's Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
In 1917, the National Guard's Eighth Coastal Artillery Regiment left its rambling armory on 94th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan for a new site in the Bronx where it would have more room and richer recruiting options.
The Bronx building, at 29 West Kingsbridge Road, is an architectural wonder, with two grand three-quarter-round towers that highlight the stately medieval-style exterior and a moat that runs across the front. It was designated a city landmark in 1974, while the regiment's former home was demolished in the 1960's. 
 But now the Kingsbridge Armory is one of five around the state being closed as a result of nationwide military cutbacks, and the building has fallen into disrepair. After serving as the site of regiment events as well as boat shows and bicycle races, it will be deserted by the Guard in September, though the regiment will continue to use the more modern annex next door.
As in several other communities in the city, the Kingsbridge regiment's impending departure has inspired many proposals on what to do with the building, igniting much debate about the landmark's future.
Two proposals dominate the debate in Kingsbridge. Officials of School District 10 would like to see several schools and an array of social services on the site to relieve crowded conditions in the district's schools. Another plan, supported by State Attorney General G. Oliver Koppell when he was an Assemblyman from the area, calls for converting it into a center for amateur athletics.
A nine-story red-brick structure with a 180-square-foot drill hall and an 800-seat auditorium, the armory covers an entire block between Kingsbridge Road and 195th Street and Reservoir and Jerome Avenues.
The state, which will cede title to the building to New York City, recently awarded a local nonprofit organization, the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a $100,000 grant to come up with a plan on how best to use the site. In about two weeks, the development corporation will form a committee of residents and merchants who will spend a year working with consultants, drawing up a proposal for uses of the building and finding ways to pay for roof repairs, new electrical systems and other structural work, which could cost as much as $40 million.
A small shelter on the Jerome Avenue side of the building that accommodates about 90 homeless women in the winter will remain open for now, officials said. But its future must also be decided. The committee's report will be submitted to Borough President Fernando Ferrer. All current proposals will be studied, said Yves Trillon, a project director of the development corporation.
"The Kingsbridge Armory is a tremendous landmark that now needs to be turned into a tremendous resource for the community," Mr. Ferrer said. "We hope the study will provide us with some ideas and some ways to make it work for the community."
The construction of the giant armories in New York, beginning in the late 19th century, reflected the growth in the size and quantity of military equipment and in the ranks of the National Guard, which was frequently called on to deal with riots and other civil disturbances of that era.
In those that remain today, style sometimes takes precedence over substance. The moat in front of the Kingsbridge Armory, for example, would spill water into the basement windows if filled.
"We certainly have our work cut out for us," Mr. Trillon said. "This whole project is like dealing with several buildings in one." LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

GRAPHIC: Photo: The National Guard will be leaving the Kingsbridge Armory. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map/Diagram: "Armory Roundoup"
 Since the 70's, with anti-military sentiment aroused by the Vietnam War, and facing growing budget constraints and increasing maintenance costs onthe hulking buildings, the National Guard has been winnowing down the number of its armories. Here is a map of New York City's armories and their current status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: BRONX OVERALL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); NATIONAL GUARD'S EIGHTH COASTAL ARTILLERY REGIMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD'S EIGHTH COASTAL ARTILLERY REGIMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); NEW YORK STATE; KINGSBRIDGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMORIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); AMATEUR SPORTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); CYCLING (53%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994



576 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.

 BODY:
Luring More Shoppers To the Lower East Side
 A campaign to revitalize the city's original bargain center on the Lower East Side and to reintroduce outlet-bound New Yorkers and American and foreign tourists to the area is well underway, said David Ceci, the executive director of the Lower East Side District Management Association, a nonprofit organization that has been sponsoring the effort. 
 Tour buses will be back along Orchard, Delancey and Grand Streets today for the first time in more than three years, he said. The number of police officers in the area has been increased, while the streets have been spruced up with new signs, storefronts and plantings. Free four-hour parking is offered in a lot that has just opened on the north side of Broome Street, between Suffolk and Norfolk Streets.
"It's becoming like it used to be in old New York," said Mr. Ceci, whose organization includes property owners, merchants, residents and elected officials.
More than 400 stores selling fabric, clothing, electronic goods, appliances, handbags, jewelry, and sheets and towels line the streets.
One thing to bear in mind: stores owned by Orthodox Jewish merchants are closed on Saturdays. But everything is open Sundays.
 
 
New Twist on Pretzels: Cheese and Sesame Toppings
 A Staten Island-based company with a major stake in frozen yogurt is planning some fancy tricks with the lowly pretzel. Everything Yogurt Inc. plans to open the Gourmet Pretzel Company this summer at La Guardia Airport, where it will sell hand-rolled pretzels with cinnamon and sugar, sesame, poppyseed and "raisin Danish" toppings. The store will also be offering flattened, open-faced pretzels with cheese-and-tomato or cheese-and-bacon toppings.
"By the end of the year," said Samuel B. Stein, director of real estate for Everything Yogurt, "we'll have 10 pretzel stores in operation around the country." The 18-year-old company's Everything Yogurt/ Salad Cafe chain has 160 stores; its Bananas and its South Philly Steaks and Fries chains account for another 140 branches.
 
Village Hotel Finishes $10 Million Renovation
 The 180-room Washington Square Hotel, in a turn-of-the-century building at 103 Waverly Place, has completed a $10 million renovation. Everything from carpeting and air conditioning to furniture and bathroom fixtures has been replaced. "But it still looks like an old Parisian hotel," said Dan Paul, the owner.
The room rates, traditionally on the low side, have stayed there. (A single with shared bath goes for $58 a night.) The hotel's de-emphasis on service remains firm: the hotel has no bellhops or room service. "I keep my labor costs down that way," Mr. Paul said. "This allows me to keep my room prices low and allows me to renovate about every 10 years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (87%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (84%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); ICE CREAM (70%); HOTEL STAFF (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); 

PERSON: DAN PAUL (64%); DAVID CECI (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994



577 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
A Lonely Cry From the Smoking Section

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
SHARON B. is a 44-year-old woman who lives on the Upper West Side and works in television production. She feels so persecuted these days, so discriminated against and vulnerable that she does not want to be further identified. I've known her for several years and was surprised at the depth of her anger. But I sympathize only to a point; Sharon is a smoker, and I am not.
"All of a sudden, I'm a smoker," she snapped. "I've stopped being a competent, intelligent, feeling woman. I'm identified as a smoker, maybe the last group of people you can pick on and still feel good about yourself." 
 New York seems to be out front in the war against tobacco, slamming door after door against smokers and creating yet another them versus us. Sharon feels the glare of other diners when she lights up in the smoking section of restaurants. On the job, the subtle sneers and wrinkled noses are often worse than the outright rage; when an executive called her "evil" as smoke plumed out of her nose, she thought it was his problem.
I admitted to her that as a former smoker, I enjoy a certain contempt for all those men and women in shirt sleeves on the pavement outside office buildings inhaling tar and nicotine in quick, guilty bursts. I think, Grow up. Quit. And stop blowing it my way.
"My cigarette has become an excuse for someone else to release all his hostilities," said Sharon. "It's a symbol. People say, 'I care about you, this is for your own good.' But I know that's not true, because I can't say to them, 'You eat too much, you drink too much.' "
"What a minute," I said. "Fatties and boozers don't blow second-hand smoke into your lungs."
"Take me to Santa Fe, I'll believe you," she said. "I can't believe I'm the problem in New York. You'll sit outside eating lunch in bus fumes, and you'll hok me about my cigarette smoke, which may or may not be dangerous to you?"
Sharon began smoking when she was 16, in Brighton Beach, hoping to learn to suck on a cigarette as gorgeously as Lauren Bacall. She stopped for a year, then started again during her mother's terminal illness. Because Sharon has been struggling with bulimia for 25 years, she is more concerned about gaining weight than damaging her lungs. Smoking relieves her stress, she says, puts her in "a state of mind of reflection"; she wonders about all the people on Prozac who don't know the long-term effects of that drug.
She smokes about a pack and a quarter each day. Several months ago, on a job in which she had been tucked into a back office with a window, the only smoking room on the floor, she noticed she was going through four packs a day.
"Everybody was stopping by for a cigarette. All these secret smokers. 'Don't tell my husband, my wife,' they'd say. I began to think, maybe this is the new secret vice you can have. These days smoking is less of a risk than extramarital affairs, but you're still slipping around. I know people who take the dog out seven times a day on the weekend, just to have a cigarette."
Sharon can be comfortable for about an hour and a half without a cigarette. She will no longer eat, she says, in Sarabeth's Kitchen on Amsterdam Avenue, which has a no-smoking policy and service she finds leisurely. She is grateful to pubby places like Teacher's on Broadway, where people still light up near the bar. On long plane flights, she loads up on natural licorice and pears, which seem to dim the craving, or chews nicotine-laced gum.
The image-conscious television industry was ahead of the rest of the city in making smokers feel like pariahs, she said. The head of one small company made her leave the office every hour for her smoke; but when she began missing West Coast calls and had to return them, he found her someplace to smoke.
"It's economic, it's psychological," she said. "O.K., I'm not naive to cancer and emphysema, but I don't believe we really care that much about health. We'd do more about pollution, about McDonald's hamburgers. This is a kind of socially acceptable witch hunt. People see something in me as a smoker that scares them.
"People are reticent to acknowledge that we all have addictions -- to relationships, to fitness regimes, to drugs. But my obsessive behavior is so clear that it triggers their fears. So they want me to feel guilty, they want me to make them comfortable."
I said: "This is a little psychobabbly for me. You are imposing your addiction on me. The smoke, the smell, the fire, the increased illnesses."
She said: "So stay away from me. Negotiate with me. But be sensitive to my needs, too. Look, we're in this city that stinks. Gunk off the buildings, exhaust fumes, dog crap on the street, inversions and sewer smells, lead and asbestos. Stuff you can't do anything about. So you take it out on smokers: they're the problem, if only they'd stop smoking, everything would be all right."
Sharon has no plans to quit, although smoking has become less pleasurable. Once it was an aid to social interaction; now it's lonely, sometimes furtive, often focused only on itself.
Sharon is looking forward to summer, when the city will be filled with European tourists, mostly smoking.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO SMOKING (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (76%); SMOKING CESSATION (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994



578 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 72; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: GOOD HEALTH;
IS MISPLACING YOUR GLASSES ALZHEIMERS

BYLINE: By Robin Marantz Henig; Robin Marantz Henig, who writes frequently for this magazine, is the author of "The Myth of Senility" and, most recently, "A Dancing Matrix: How Science Confronts Emerging Viruses."

 BODY:
IN LITTLE MORE THAN A DECADE, ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE HAS moved from an obscure and supposedly rare condition to become the nation's fourth-leading cause of death. The disease slowly but relentlessly eviscerates a lifetime of memories, destroying brain cells and blocking communication from one cell to another. It eventually erases all that makes a person alive, unique and human. A recent Gallup Poll found that one of every three Americans now knows someone who has it and that nearly 50 percent worry about developing it themselves. The disease afflicts four million people, and family after family has a sad story to tell about it.
 Harriet H., for example, says she did not understand her husband's condition until the night they gave a dinner party at their suburban Washington home. "It was a very nice evening; we all had a wonderful time," she says. "And then as people were getting ready to leave, my husband put on his coat to leave with them. He didn't know he was in his own home." 
IN PART BECAUSE OF THE INCREASED FAMILIARITY WITH THE ailment, there is concern in the medical world that people, and occasionally their doctors, are jumping too quickly to a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease when all that's happening is normal aging. Scientists now recognize that Alzheimer's is totally different from the memory lapses that plague everyone who gets old; it is a specific, organic condition that develops only in some human brains.
 "There is some tendency to diagnose Alzheimer's disease too readily when one is presented with the everyday kind of forgetfulness that all of us have," says Leonard Berg, professor of neurology at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis and chairman of the medical and scientific board of the Alzheimer's Association. "Alzheimer's disease is the new phrase on the block."
 Being too quick to the diagnosis can be tragic. In making such a judgment, the doctor might be overlooking some physical and potentially treatable condition that can cause almost identical symptoms. What looks like Alzheimer's might, in fact, be caused by one of scores of underlying, often treatable, conditions -- including depression, drug intoxication, thyroid imbalance, vitamin B-12 deficiency, even a mild heart attack.
 The first step when evaluating an elderly patient complaining of memory loss is "to do a neurologic exam to see if the patient really has dementia," says Daniel A. Pollen, a neurologist at the University of Massachusetts. Dementia is the loss of intellectual abilities, like memory, judgment and language, without a loss of consciousness or alertness. "Then, if there is dementia, you have to look for a treatable cause that might explain it," adds Pollen, the author of "Hannah's Heirs: The Quest for the Genetic Origins of Alzheimer's Disease." A thorough examination is the only way to rule out these possibilities.
 The disease is named after Alois Alzheimer, a German psychiatrist who in 1907 reported the perplexing case of a 51-year-old woman who experienced intellectual deterioration. When his patient died, incontinent and bedridden, four years later, Alzheimer conducted an autopsy of her brain. He found it riddled with two abnormal cell formations that he characterized as "plaques" and "tangles." These two types of brain cell masses are today the hallmarks of the neurological disease that bears his name.
 Subsequent research has shown that the plaques are made of a brain protein known as beta-amyloid and that the tangles consist of abnormal nerve cell filaments wrapped around each other like a fraying piece of twine. To this day, the only way that Alzheimer's disease can be diagnosed with absolute certainty is if brain tissue examined under a microscope, usually after death, turns up sufficient evidence of these tangles and plaques. Brain biopsies are rarely done because they are difficult and dangerous.
 For many years, the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease was used only for early-onset, then called "presenile," dementia. "When I went to medical school in the 40's, we were taught that Alzheimer's disease was a very rare disorder affecting people in their 40's and 50's and that none of us was ever going to see a case in our lifetimes," Berg says. "They told us that something else happens to old people, but because it affected people in their 60's and 70's, they weren't going to go into that."
 Gradually, though, scientists realized that the same plaques and tangles that appeared in the brains of people who died of presenile dementia were found in the brains of people with a later onset of the very same symptoms. Since the late 1970's, Alzheimer's disease has been used to mean dementia caused by a specific kind of brain degeneration no matter what the age of the patient.
 In much of medicine, the diagnosis of a specific disease is made by ruling out others. This is true of Alzheimer's. "If you have a good history of progression over a year or more, and if you've ruled out the possible reversible causes of the symptoms, you can usually make a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease," Pollen says. "Some people like to do MRI or CT scans to see whether there's brain atrophy -- but these are only consistent with the diagnosis, not proof."
 Reversible pseudo-dementia occurs in only about 10 percent of patients who come in for evaluations. Still, it's worth looking for, since the alternative is to consign someone with a treatable disease to a category of illness that's progressive and incurable.
 Just as there are reports of overdiagnosis, so too are there reports of underdiagnosis. Some physicians are reluctant to give such a dire name to a patient's condition; instead, they say the forgetfulness and confusion are the inevitable result of aging. "A patient came to us just a few weeks ago with dementia, who had been told by his doctor that it's just normal aging, and there's nothing anyone can do," Pollen says. It may not prove to be either; it's possible that something can be done or that it's not normal aging at all but rather a case of Alzheimer's.
 Overdiagnosis does not completely explain why Alzheimer's seems so common today, affecting a million more Americans than a decade ago. A fuller explanation is the population growth of the people at highest risk. Alzheimer's is overwhelmingly a disease of very old age. Those over 85 represent the fastest-growing segment of the population. As this age group expands, the number with the disease is expected to grow exponentially, with as many as 14 million by the year 2050.
 The prevalence rates rise steeply with age, according to a 1989 study conducted in the working-class neighborhood of East Boston. "We went door to door and interviewed everyone over 65," says Dr. Denis A. Evans, who coordinated the study while at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. More than 3,800 older people were interviewed and 467 were asked to come to a health center for further evaluations. From this sample, Evans's group concluded that for people aged 65 to 74, the prevalence of Alzheimer's was 3 percent; for those aged 75 to 84, it was 19 percent, and for people over the age of 85, the rate of Alzheimer's disease was an astonishing 47 percent. Earlier estimates had put the rate at closer to 20 to 30 percent.
 "The age distribution curve," says Evans, now at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago, "implies a dramatic increase in prevalence of the illness in the years ahead." The economic implications are staggering. The four million who have the disease now cost the nation some $90 billion a year. "Imagine the whole state of Texas," says Zaven S. Khachaturian, associate director of the National Institute on Aging. "Imagine all those people in need of long-term nursing home care. Our society simply cannot afford it."
 In response to the problem, Federal support for Alzheimer's research has increased tenfold since 1983. This has led to an eruption of scientific discoveries in the past few years. Biologists have now identified several genetic markers that seem to correlate with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, which affects as many as 10 percent of Alzheimer's patients.
 For the past 15 years, researchers have focused on the plaques and tangles identified by Alzheimer back in 1907. These brain abnormalities are most plentiful in two critical regions of the brain: the hippocampus, which controls memory, and the cerebral cortex, which controls higher order thinking and reasoning.
 In those same regions, you can also find high concentrations of beta-amyloid, the protein in many of the plaques. This finding led to the amyloid hypothesis: that the first step in a sequence of destructive events in the brain involves beta-amyloid. But a small group of Alzheimer's researchers have questioned the amyloid hypothesis, saying the presence of beta-amyloid in Alzheimer's brains is the result, rather than the cause, of the brain cell devastation.
 Then last fall, scientists at Duke University made one of the most important discoveries since Alois Alzheimer's original finding. They linked a different gene to an increased susceptibility to the most common form of Alzheimer's, the form that strikes after the age of 65.
 The Duke scientists, led by Allen D. Roses, a neurobiologist, offered an alternative to the amyloid hypothesis. They proposed that the first step in the brain cell degeneration involves a protein called apolipoprotein E (ApoE).
 The scientists found that 64 percent of Alzheimer's patients had at least one gene coding for the type of the ApoE protein known as E4. Among a control group, only 31 percent did. And they charted a clear relationship between the ApoE types and the age of onset of the disease. For those Alzheimer's patients with two E4 genes, one from each parent, the average age of onset was 68. For those with a single E4, paired with another type like E3, the average age was 75. For those with no E4, the average age of onset was 84.
 It became clear, then, that having ApoE4 is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, just as high cholesterol is a risk factor for heart disease. "If you have E4, you're more likely to get Alzheimer's disease; if you don't have E4, you're less likely," Roses says. Research on how E4 works, he says, holds promise for a preventive therapy within the next 10 years, perhaps as simple as a pill to supply a missing brain chemical.
 Just as diet and exercise can lessen the risk of heart disease for someone with high cholesterol, something in the environment might affect whether a person with E4 actually develops Alzheimer's. So far, evidence of environmental influences on Alzheimer's disease is scanty. But two recent studies have raised some possibilities.
 At the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, Dr. Victor Henderson reviewed the medical records and death certificates of some 2,400 women who had lived in Southern California and found that those who had been on estrogen replacement therapy were 40 percent less likely to have had Alzheimer's than those who had not taken estrogen. And at Duke, John Breitner examined 50 pairs of elderly twins who developed Alzheimer's disease at different ages -- or in which only one twin ever developed the disease -- and found that those who took anti-inflammatory drugs for arthritis were four times more likely than their co-twins to have developed Alzheimer's at a later age, or to be spared altogether. Now clinical trials are under way to see whether estrogen replacement therapy or anti-inflammatory drugs offer protection against Alzheimer's.
 WHEN THE BRAIN CELL destruction begins, the effect is at first insidious. The earliest symptoms of the disease -- often noticeable only in retrospect -- are loss of recent memory and impaired judgment. But often these deficits are easily disguised. "My husband maintained his poise for a very long time," says Harriet H., whose husband's diagnosis in 1982 came after signs of decline that began eight years before. "If we ran into you on the street and you were a friend, he would say: 'How are you? Nice to see you. How's your family?' And you would think he was absolutely fine. But he would have no idea who you were. If you were a stranger from New Guinea who had just set foot on our shores, he would say the same thing."
 At first, it's hard to distinguish these symptoms from normal forgetfulness. Harriet's husband, for instance, had always been absent-minded. But as the brain decays, the memory loss becomes more profound; people forget not only where they left their glasses but that they ever wore glasses. As the brain deteriorates, Alzheimer's changes not only memory but personality. One patient may lash out at a spouse or child; another, retreat into silence, or become confused, paranoid or belligerent. In the final stages, usually about 8 to 10 years after diagnosis, patients are often unable to control their bodily functioning, becoming unable to speak, swallow or recognize their own families.
 Harriet cared for her husband at home for 10 years. Finally, when he could no longer walk and barely recognized anyone, she put him in a nursing home. Since there is no cure, this is where most Alzheimer's patients spend their last years -- bedridden, incontinent, an empty, sad shell of what they once were.
 Curiously, the body often stays intact while the mind falls to pieces. Harriet is still moved to tears by her husband's face, which looks younger than its 80 years. "He's always had a very sweet face. Now it's just the same sweet face, but it's lost all its tension." Despite his mute helplessness, she can recognize in that face the man she once loved, the man who, in a changed but no less powerful way, she loves still. "It's a very dear face. He's a very dear man."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE; MEMORY; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; AGED ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ORPHAN DRUGS (89%); MEMORY DISORDERS (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); DEMENTIA (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); BRAIN (77%); HEART DISEASE (73%); MALNUTRITION (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WRITERS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: HENIG, ROBIN MARANTZ

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



579 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE PRESIDENT;
Sharper Focus: Genesis of Clinton's Hard Line

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL with ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
As President Clinton struggled this week to respond to new Serbian aggression in Bosnia and to salvage his unsuccessful policy in Haiti, he took some pleasure in having forced himself to attend to foreign affairs as never before in his Presidency.
 "No one can ever say again I've been disengaged," Mr. Clinton told one adviser on Tuesday as back-to-back National Security Council meetings on Bosnia finally gave his aides what they had long pressed for: a chance to enlist the President in an extensive review of his most intractable foreign-policy problem. 
The shift came only after Secretary of State Warren Christopher and David R. Gergen, the White House counselor, began campaigns with allies in the White House to persuade Mr. Clinton to focus more on urgent foreign issues. Such opportunities had been rare.
 Even after Bosnian Serbs opened their latest offensive on Gorazde last month, five days passed before the President spoke out publicly about them. It took 12 more days before he sat down with his national security advisers for the last 26 minutes of a meeting about Bosnia.
 
A Slow Start, A Lack of Clarity
 After three harried weeks, the Administration's struggle to deal with the Serbian challenge finally produced the stern ultimatum that NATO approved on Friday. It also displayed enduring features of Mr. Clinton's foreign-policy management style: an appetite for details, an inclination to debate, an impulse to muse in public.
 At the beginning of April, the White House waited four days before fully repudiating a comment by Defense Secretary William J. Perry that left an impression that Washington was not prepared to use force to save the Muslim enclave of Gorazde. Aides say the delay sent a dangerous signal to the Serbian attackers.
 Even as the relentless bombardment was pushing the Administration toward a more assertive policy, public remarks by Mr. Clinton failed to convey the message that Washington was taking a harder line. This led to frustration at the State Department, the Pentagon and the White House.
 Before taking office, President-elect Clinton spoke candidly about the importance of "preventive" management of issues like Bosnia. He said his Administration had two choices: to "come up with a decent policy and aggressively pursue it," or "ignore it for awhile, wait for it to explode."
 The danger, he warned, would be that "the problems will swarm on us, and I might have to spend all my time on foreign policy."
 "I don't want that to happen," he said. "So we're trying to develop a disciplined, aggressive approach that will permit us the freedom to focus on America's problems at home."
 To coordinate that task, Anthony Lake, the President's national security adviser, has seized control of the foreign policy process to insure that he is the conduit for information and ideas that reach the President. But that aggressiveness has caused some frictions between the White House and the State Department.
 Mr. Clinton has performed well on foreign-policy issues for which he has a passion and an instinct, and which have a direct effect on the American people and the American economy. After winning passage of North American Free Trade Agreement and concluding a global trade treaty, for example, he is now given credit for wrestling creatively with trade issues involving China and Japan.
 Yet the lurching public statements on other issues, particularly Bosnia, illustrate how little discipline and direction there has been.
 "This is a foreign-policy process which publicly gives every indication of being out of control and not under anyone's control," said Hodding Carter 3d, a State Department spokesman in the Carter Administration who has criticized the Administration's response to Serbian aggression.
 
Around the World In 30 Minutes
 On the minutely detailed schedules prepared by Mr. Clinton's aides, the only regular daily session devoted to foreign policy remains a 10-minute briefing from the Central Intelligence Agency and a 20-minute update from Mr. Lake.
 On March 30, the day Serbian forces were first reported to have opened their offensive against Gorazde, the briefings -- in San Diego, where Mr. Clinton was on vacation -- focused primarily on North Korea's nuclear threat. The surge in fighting around the enclave of 65,000 Bosnians was not mentioned.
The attack was the first significant threat to any Bosnian town designated by the United Nations as a "safe area" since a NATO ultimatum forced the Serbs to loosen their hold on Sarajevo in mid-February. But Mr. Clinton said nothing publicly about the fighting, and his senior advisers say they can remember no conversations with him on the subject until the following week.
 With only a mid-level national security aide, William Itoh, still with him, the President remained in San Diego until April 2, when he headed to Charlotte, N.C., to watch the Arkansas Razorbacks play in the basketball championships, then returned to the White House.
 Although Mr. Clinton speaks several times each day with Mr. Lake and has begun to meet almost weekly with other security advisers, aides say the President's time is too valuable to hold additional sessions on foreign affairs.
 On the Bosnian issue, said Paul Begala, a top political adviser, "people want both restraint and resolve, and I think that's what they're getting."
But as the Serbian attacks intensified, the White House began to pay for its inattention. After an April 3 television interview in which Defense Secretary Perry left the impression that the United States would not act to save the town, Mr. Clinton and his aides did little to dispel that impression. It was not until April 7 that Mr. Lake stated clearly that military strikes to protect Gorazde had not been ruled out.
 By then, Administration officials acknowledge, the damage was done. "I don't think we acted quickly enough to correct the record," Mr. Gergen, the White House counselor, said in an interview, "and it deepened the impression that we were not willing to use air power."
 So determined is the White House to squelch the notion that Mr. Clinton is disengaged from foreign policy that it circulated a four-page document to aides in response to reporters' questions with the title, Draft Chronology of the President's Foreign Policy Engagement, April 4-21.
 And Mr. Clinton went out of his way last week to tell a group of newspaper columnists, "For the last 10 days, except for my forays on health care, I've done almost nothing but work on Bosnia and Haiti and one or two other foreign-policy issues." But even after Mr. Clinton grew more concerned with following events in Bosnia, Washington's position was not always presented clearly.
 By April 11, direct fire by Serbian tanks into Gorazde had grown so intense that NATO warplanes carried out extremely limited air strikes on Serbian positions, attacks in which the United States cooperated.
 But on April 14 and 15, Mr. Clinton emphasized that NATO was a neutral party in the conflict; his comments were prompted by reports that the Serbs had begun to regard the alliance as the enemy. The next day, a Saturday, he joined his advisers at the end of an emergency meeting on Bosnia, then began a two-day journey that included a stop at a Mustang car show in North Carolina.
 The itinerary stirred fear among some aides that the image of Bill Clinton driving his '67 convertible down the Charlotte Motor Speedway might become as unforgettable as that of George Bush roaring off the coast of Kennebunkport in his gas-guzzling speedboat after Iraq invaded Kuwait, disrupting world oil supplies.
 
Mixed Signals Make Policy Seem Muddy
 When the Serbs broke a cease-fire pledge to the Russians last Sunday night, aides say, the President made clear to Mr. Lake privately that he was ready to seek broader authority for NATO.
 But as Mr. Clinton began to plot a new course, he was sending other signals in public. On Monday, he left the impression that lifting the United Nations embargo on arms shipments to the Bosnian Government, in which Muslims predominate, was not utterly out of the question. On Tuesday, he was "intrigued" by a proposal by President Boris N. Yeltsin for summit talks on Bosnia. On Wednesday, he described the Bosnian conflict as a "civil war," only to be contradicted the next day by Mr. Christopher.
 Senior White House officials blame journalists for magnifying some shifts in emphasis, and say others are an inevitable product of Mr. Clinton's preference for communicating policy to the public, and his aversion to following scripts.
 "It's usually not an option to have the President say nothing," one top aide said. "It's like navigating a river -- sometimes you hit a rock. But if you don't have a paddle in the water, you're not going to get anywhere."
 But even some Congressional Democrats have expressed open frustration about Mr. Clinton's free-wheeling style.
 "You can't articulate American foreign policy in response to the news media," said Representative Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "There are so many constituencies and so many nuances that no matter how good you are, you lose control of your message."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); HAITI (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (56%); 

COMPANY: CARTER ADMINISTRATION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); HAITI (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



580 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 13155 words

HEADLINE: THE 37TH PRESIDENT;
In Three Decades, Nixon Tasted Crisis and Defeat, Victory, Ruin and Revival

BYLINE: By JOHN HERBERS

 BODY:
To millions of Americans, Richard Milhous Nixon was the most puzzling and fascinating politician of his time. He was a man of high intelligence and innovative concepts whose talents, especially in international affairs, were widely respected by both friend and foe. Yet he was so motivated by hatreds and fears that he abused his powers and resorted to lies and cover-ups.
Almost constantly in the public eye from the time he entered politics in 1946, he propelled himself into a career that culminated a generation later when he became the first President to travel to Communist China and the first to resign from office. Over the decades, he evoked conflicting emotions among millions of Americans. 
 Many felt an intense dislike for him on the ground that he rose to power through what they regarded as demagoguery and defamation of his opponents. But among many others he inspired an intense loyalty, particularly among those who identified with his humble beginnings and with his hostility toward intellectuals, liberals, socialists and others he regarded as archenemies.
Mr. Nixon wore his hatreds on his sleeve, and some of the most revealing information about his character and motivations came from his friends and associates. "Richard Nixon went up the walls of life with his claws," said Bryce Harlow, one of his Presidential aides.
His career, driven by such tenacity, was a tumultuous roller-coaster ride of victory, crisis, defeat, revival, triumph, ruin and, in later life, re-emergence as an elder statesman of the world who traveled widely, wrote copiously and offered advice freely.
"No one," he told an interviewer in 1990, "had ever been so high and fallen so low."
Mr. Nixon's political life spanned the cold war. He began in politics as an ardent anti-Communist, and he spent his last years crusading for American political support and financial aid to Boris N. Yeltsin's Russia.
 
A Resignation, Not a Confession

Mr. Nixon never received the honors and accolades he would have earned had he not resigned the Presidency in the face of certain impeachment for the cover-up of a cheap political burglary of Democratic offices in the Watergate complex and other illegal acts of domestic espionage, all documented by Oval Office tape recordings.
Still, he never confessed to the "high crimes and misdemeanors" of which he was accused in articles of impeachment, which were approved by the House Judiciary Committee and which precipitated his resignation in 1974.
"When the President does it, that means it is not illegal," he told David Frost in a celebrated television interview three years after he was pardoned by his successor, Gerald R. Ford.
So strong was the stigma of the Watergate scandals that it tended to obscure Mr. Nixon's accomplishments. In foreign affairs these included establishing relations with Communist China, initiating detente and nuclear arms control treaties with the Soviet Union, and opening the way for Egypt to break with the Soviet bloc (and subsequently to make peace with Israel).
In the domestic arena, his record appears better through the prism of subsequent events, some scholars say, than it did at the time. In his Administration, an expansion of the food stamp program went a long way toward stamping out hunger in America. The Environmental Protection Act authorized vast resources and regulations for cleaning the country's air, land and water.
In fact, many of the Government regulations and expenditures for social programs that Ronald Reagan cut when he became President in 1981 were the products of the Nixon Administration rather than of the Democratic Presidents Mr. Reagan blamed.
Perhaps more important was Mr. Nixon's reshaping of the Supreme Court through his appointment of a Chief Justice and three Associate Justices. He appointed candidates for their ideological persuasion, particularly on such issues as judicial restraint, tough law enforcement and relaxation of school desegregation rules. As a result, the nine-member Court was transformed from the "liberal Warren Court" to a body that was often split on the great issues of the day but more attuned to conservative causes.
 
A Push for Peace, A Bungled Burglary
 Yet his accomplishments were marred to some extent by his methods, his motives and his ambiguities. Carrying out the "peace with honor" agreement to end the long divisive war in Southeast Asia took five years from the time he was elected to office on a peace pledge, years in which American society was scarred by riots and rebellions against the efforts to force peace through bombings and incursions into new territory.
By the end of 1968, 30,610 Americans and untold Vietnamese had died in the war; over the next five years another 27,557 Americans and even more Vietnamese died. The men who negotiated the peace, Henry A. Kissinger and Le Duc Tho, were selected for the Nobel Peace Prize; Mr. Tho declined.
In all matters Mr. Nixon centralized power in himself and a few aides in the White House and sought to broaden the authority of the executive branch at the expense of Congress and the courts. He tried to use the bureaucracy against political foes. He entered his second term by interpreting his crushing defeat of George McGovern as a mandate to scale back domestic government, even though some of the programs involved grew out of the first Nixon term. But that effort was barely under way early in 1973 when the Watergate disclosures weakened him.
Watergate in its broadest sense -- not only the burglary of Democratic headquarters and subsequent effortsat a cover-up, but also the corruption of Federal agencies for illegal purposes -- had such an impact on politics and government that it remains a promontory on the landscape of American history.
In Watergate's wake Congress passed a proliferation of legislation intended to restore ethics to elections and government, to make government more open to the public, and to restrain agencies from abusing individual rights at home and abroad.
Citizens seemed to be so offended by Watergate that for several years they voted heavily against candidates of Mr. Nixon's party whether or not they had anything to do with the scandals. A result, Democrats swept Congress in 1974 and Jimmy Carter was elected President in 1976. The contest between Mr. Carter and President Ford was so close that many students of politics believed Mr. Ford would have won had he not pardoned Mr. Nixon, an act that prevented the kind of criminal prosecution that sent many Nixon aides to prison.
It was Mr. Nixon's personality and character that most caught the attention of Americans as, always accompanied by controversy, he went from Southern California to the House of Representatives, to the Senate, to the White House as Dwight D. Eisenhower's Vice President, to the Presidency, and to private citizen as the first President to have resigned the office. In years between, he was defeated in a race for the Presidency by John F. Kennedy in 1960 and, two years later, in a bid for Governor of California by Edmund G. (Pat) Brown.
No public figure had been more observed, discussed and psychoanalyzed in public, yet few professed to understand him.
"Though he was a remote and private man, we had all been drawn into his life story," Garry Wills, author of "Nixon Agonistes," wrote after the resignation. "Decade by decade, crisis by crisis, we were unwilling intruders on his most intimate moments -- we saw him cry, sweat, tremble, saw him angry, hurt, vindictive. The tapes even let us eavesdrop on those embarrassing conversations. Although no one really knew him, we all knew too much about him. He was too vividly present, and yet not present at all -- a collection of quirks, and not a person; a conspicuous absence."
On another level, there were those who asserted that the apparent Nixon enigma stemmed not from his character but from his fruitless efforts as President to persuade the people to take a more pragmatic view of government, particularly in foreign affairs, a view that neither the right nor left was quite prepared to adopt.
Calling the Nixon era "a golden age of diplomacy," William Tucker, a writer and magazine editor, wrote in 1981: "The Nixon approach was always hated by the far left and far right -- groups that despite doctrinal differences see the world in terms of absolute right and wrong. The right hated Nixon because he had abandoned the anti-Communist cause; the left was unforgiving of the former Richard Nixon, and resentful because he turned out to be such a constructive diplomat. Watergate had little to do with it."
Americans did not know who Richard Nixon was in part because he had no fixed ideology, no particular place on the political spectrum. He was a loner who had no lasting alliances with other prominent Republican leaders. At one time or another he was at cross-purposes with Dwight Eisenhower, Barry Goldwater, Nelson Rockefeller, Ronald Reagan, Earl Warren and others.
His life was a series of contradictions. He preached the Protestant ethic of hard work and moral living and was prim in dress and manner. Yet the White House tapes that came to light in the Watergate investigation, as well as the testimony of some of his associates, showed that he could be profane, amoral and power-driven.
 
A Faith of Peace, A Policy of Force
 Reared as a Quaker, Mr. Nixon said he was strongly influenced by that faith of peace and contemplation. Yet he considered politics combat and election campaigns an "arena." A foundation of his foreign policy was to appear ready to use military force anywhere in the world.
Like Lincoln and Jackson, he identified with the common people, siding with "middle America" against the well-to-do. But his own style of living was extravagant, with two expensive homes in California and Florida subsidized by wealthy friends and the Federal Government.
He entered the White House promising to decentralize authority but almost immediately consolidated it in himself and a few aides at the expense of his Cabinet.
He invited crises and, until the Watergate scandals closed in, thrived on them, but he felt depressed after a victory, as he wrote in his book "Six Crises."
He entered politics by falsely branding his opponent for a House seat as an ally of Communists and their sympathizers. Yet as President he opened relations with the Communist Government of China and established a rapport with Soviet and other Communist-bloc leaders that no previous President had achieved.
Some Nixon observers have sought to explain him as an early practitioner of "the new politics," in which the dominant ingredients are a weak party structure and the mass appeal of television.
California set the trend. There, Mr. Nixon was able to run for Congress without working his way up through party ranks, as was the custom in most other states in 1946.
Six years later, Mr. Nixon discovered in his celebrated "Checkers" speech that on television he could move audiences without being subjected to questions and checking of his facts. Thereafter, he used television whenever he could and became a master of the controlled broadcast that conveyed the image he desired.
None of this, however, explains Richard Nixon. He was a man of enormous complexity. Many volumes have been written about him in an effort to penetrate his core. He himself provided the best clues.
 
'They'll Never Give Us Credit'

Kenneth W. Clawson was communications director for Mr. Nixon and a loyalist who stayed with him to the end. Shortly after Mr. Nixon resigned and returned to San Clemente, Calif., he sent for Mr. Clawson, who had grown up in Appalachia and admired the Nixon style and determination.
Mr. Clawson found "the Old Man" depressed and nursing a bout of phlebitis, his legs propped on his desk.
"They'll never give us credit," he said to Mr. Clawson, who wrote of the conversation in The Washington Post in 1979. "Even now they try to stomp us, you know, kick us when we're down. They'll never let up, never, because we were the first threat to them in years. And, by God, we would have changed it all, changed it so they couldn't have changed it back in a hundred years, if only . . ."
There was no explanation of who "they" were, and no need for one. They were the liberals, the intellectuals, journalists, those born to privilege, the anti-Nixon people in his own party, those Mr. Nixon had counted as his enemies over many years.
"What starts the process, really, are the laughs, slights and snubs when you are a kid," Mr. Nixon said. "Sometimes it's because you are poor, or Irish or Jewish or Catholic or ugly or simply that you are skinny. But if you are reasonably intelligent and if your anger is deep enough and strong enough, you learn you can change those attitudes by excellence, personal gut performance, while those who have anything are sitting on their fat butts.
"Once you learn that you've got to work harder than anybody else, it becomes a way of life as you move out of the alley and on your way. In your own mind you have nothing to lose, so you take plenty of chances, and if you do your homework many of them pay off. It is then you understand, for the first time, that you really have the advantage because your competitors can't risk what they have already. It's a piece of cake until you get to the top. You find you can't stop playing the game the way you've always played it because it is a part of you and you need it as much as an arm and a leg."
Patting his swollen leg, he added: "So you are lean and mean and resourceful, and you continue to walk on the edge of the precipice because over the years you have become fascinated by how close to the edge you can walk without losing your balance. This time there was a difference. This time we had something to lose."
That short conversation provides a thread that ran through Mr. Nixon's entire life, a life lived on the precipice and, for the most part, sustained by skill, determination and a good bit of luck.
 
EARLY YEARS
 Quaker Church, Football Field, Role in War, Taste of Politics
 The future President was born Jan. 9, 1913, in Yorba Linda, Calif., then a farming community of 200 people near Los Angeles. His ancestors on both sides were farmers, artisans and tradesmen who came to America from Ireland in the 18th century.
Francis Anthony Nixon, Richard's father, was born on a farm in Ohio, left home at the age of 14 to earn a living and arrived in California several years later, in 1907. He found a job as a trolley-car motorman in the Quaker community of Whittier, where he met Hannah Milhous, whose family had come there from Indiana in 1897. Frank and Hannah were married in 1908.
After working in his father-in-law's orchards and in several other jobs, Frank bought a general store and filling station in 1922. Richard was the second of five sons.
"It was not an easy life, but it was a good one," Richard Nixon recalled in his memoirs, "centered around a loving family and a small, tight-knit Quaker community."
Childhood friends of Mr. Nixon's said he rarely smiled. In "The Presidential Character," published in 1972, James David Barber cited a "lifelong propensity for feeling sad about himself, with his Duke Law School roommate's observation that 'he never expected anything good to happen to him, or to anyone else close to him, unless it was earned.' "
He daydreamed of faraway places; worked hard at winning good grades in school; lectured his brothers to be more conscientious; played football with zest even though he was not good at it; pursued music, acting and debating and competed for leadership positions in school, and went four times a week to a strict Quaker church.
He was close to death and illness at an early age. A younger brother, Arthur, died of tubercular encephalitis when Richard was 12. When Richard was 20, his older brother, Harold, died of tuberculosis after a 10-year illness that drained the family resources.
At the age of 3, Richard toppled from a horse-drawn buggy, and the wheel ran over his head, inflicting a deep gash in his scalp that left an ugly scar.
"Out of his childhood Nixon brought a persistent bent toward life as painful, difficult, and, perhaps as significant, uncertain," Mr. Barber wrote.
Some students of his career concluded that as an adult, Mr. Nixon would make his investment in life not in values but in managing himself so he could accomplish his next goal. And in the process, he was not as enigmatic as he was often pictured. Rather, his behavior was consistent with his view of the world and was perhaps more predictable than that of most politicians.
After he had become famous and served as Vice President, his mother was asked if her son had changed over the years.
"No," she replied. "He has always been exactly the same. I never knew a person to change so little."
 
The Upward Ladder: Fighting to Win
 After graduation from high school, the young Nixon wanted to go to Harvard or Yale. But there was no money for that. So he stayed four more years in the community he wished desperately to escape and entered Whittier College. There he sharpened his debating talents, was elected president of the freshman class and of the student body for three years, and took acting lessons.
But it was his football coach, Wallace Newman, who influenced him the most. "I admired him and learned more from him than any man I have ever known aside from my father," Mr. Nixon said.
In his memoirs he said of Mr. Newman, "He had no tolerance for the view that how you play the game counts more than whether you win or lose. He used to say, 'Show me a good loser and I'll show you a loser.' "
Graduating from Whittier second in his class, Mr. Nixon won a scholarship to the Duke University Law School in Durham, N.C. There, he was so short of spending money that he spent most of his time in study. He was elected president of the Duke Bar Association and graduated third in his class.
Mr. Nixon tried to get a job in one of the big New York law firms, particularly Sullivan & Cromwell, but he received no encouragement. The Federal Bureau of Investigation also turned him down. He went back to California and was admitted to the bar in November 1937; he almost immediately joined the firm of Wingert & Bewley in Whittier.
In his spare time, he became active in civic groups, taught Sunday school and acted in a little theater group. It was in the theater that he met Thelma Catherine Ryan, called Pat because she was born March 16, a day before St. Patrick's Day, in 1912. When they met, she was teaching typing and shorthand at Whittier High School. They were married two years later, June 21, 1940, in a Quaker ceremony.
When the United States entered World War II in 1941, Mr. Nixon took a job in Washington as a lawyer with the Office of Price Administration, an experience he loathed and would cite in later years as evidence of the failure of government bureaucracy. After seven months he applied for and was granted a Navy commission. He became an operations officer with the South Pacific Combat Air Transport Command, charged with establishing cargo bases.
 
A Politician Is Born, Midwifed by Committee
 At war's end he was surprised to receive a letter from a committee of California Republicans asking if he was interested in running for Congress.
Although there had been little indication that Mr. Nixon had wanted to make politics his career, he jumped at the chance. The five-term incumbent was Jerry Voorhis, a liberal in the Truman tradition who had voted for Federal control of tidelands oil and had worked for cheap credit and for public power; the conservatives of Southern California wanted him out.
Mr. Nixon returned to California and, in competing with other candidates for the committee's endorsement, said the issues would be "New Deal government control in regulating our lives" versus "individual freedom and all that initiative can produce."
"I hold with the latter viewpoint," he said. "I believe that returning veterans, and I have talked to many of them in the foxholes, will not be satisfied with a dole or a Government handout." That Mr. Nixon had little opportunity for contact with servicemen in the foxholes was not important; he demonstrated a political ability to say what his audience wanted to hear. He won the committee's endorsement and the primary.
But when the campaign for the 1946 general election began, Mr. Nixon was far behind his opponent. To overcome that, he developed a technique he would use time and again: discredit your opponent.
Mr. Nixon issued a statement billing himself as a "clean, forthright young American who fought for the defense of his country in the stinking mud and jungles of the Solomons" while his opponent "stayed safely behind the front in Washington."
This was coupled with another statement saying he represented no special interest or pressure group and adding, in reference to the Political Action Committee of the Congress of Industrial Organizations: "I welcome the opposition of the PAC with its Communist principles and huge slush fund."
Mr. Voorhis's defense, that the PAC had not endorsed him and that it was not Communist, did not deter Mr. Nixon, and when he arrived in Washington at the age of 34, Representative Nixon received a cold shoulder from some members of Congress who believed he had unseated a colleague unfairly.
The slight did not escape the notice of Mr. Nixon, who was already beginning to see himself confronted by enemies.
 
Fame and Alger Hiss, Politics and the Pink Lady
 It was the Alger Hiss case that made Richard Nixon a national celebrity.
In August 1948, Mr. Hiss, a highly regarded former State Department official, was accused by Whittaker Chambers, a former Communist and then a senior editor at Time magazine, of having given Mr. Chambers secret Government documents for delivery to the Soviet Union in 1937 and 1938. Mr. Hiss denied the charges before the House Committee on Un-American Activities and swore he did not know "a man named Whittaker Chambers."
Because of Mr. Hiss's excellent credentials and Government record, the matter might have been dropped had Mr. Nixon not doggedly pursued it as head of a special subcommittee.
Mr. Hiss finally acknowledged that he had known Mr. Chambers as "George Crosley," a freelance writer he had befriended in the 1930's. He continued to deny, however, that he had been a Communist or had passed secret documents.
After Mr. Hiss filed a libel suit against Mr. Chambers, the rumpled, rotund editor produced from a pumpkin on his Maryland farm five rolls of microfilm of documents that he said had been passed to him by Mr. Hiss. They led to Mr. Hiss's indictment on a charge of perjury, and after two trials he was convicted in 1950.
The episode was an embarrassment to Democrats who had defended Mr. Hiss. Mr. Nixon won wide praise for his persistence and astuteness in the case, but he emphasized the enemies he made.
"The Hiss case proved beyond any reasonable doubt the existence of Soviet-directed Communist subversion at the highest levels of American government," Mr. Nixon wrote in his memoirs. "But many who had defended Hiss simply refused to accept the overwhelming evidence of his guilt. Some turned their anger and frustration on me."
The Hiss case made Richard Nixon famous, but it also turned him, he wrote, "into one of the most controversial figures in Washington, bitterly opposed by the most respected and influential liberal journalists and opinion makers of the time."
In 1950, Senator Sheridan Downey, a Democrat, unexpectedly chose to retire. Mr. Nixon, who had had his eye on the Senate seat for a couple of years, was supported by major California newspapers and was unopposed in the Republican primary. The Democrats, however, were split in a bitter primary contest in which Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas emerged the winner to face Representative Nixon.
Mrs. Douglas was a former Broadway and motion picture actress who was married to the actor Melvyn Douglas. She was a popular liberal, a Fair Dealer who had enthusiastically supported the Truman program.
From the beginning Mr. Nixon set out to discredit his opponent's loyalty to the American system. He distributed more than half a million pink fliers that said in part:
"During five years in Congress, Helen Douglas has voted 353 times exactly as has Vito Marcantonio, the notorious Communist party-line Congressman from New York. How can Helen Douglas, capable actress that she is, take up so strange a role as a foe of Communism? And why does she when she has so deservedly earned the title of 'the pink lady'?"
In fact, Mrs. Douglas was denounced by pro-Communist groups as a "capitalist warmonger," and it was in this campaign that Mr. Nixon was first called "Tricky Dick," an epithet bestowed by The Independent Review in an editorial and picked up by Mrs. Douglas in her campaign.
The extreme charges against Mrs. Douglas turned out to be overkill: Mr. Nixon won the race by 680,000 votes. But the campaign would supply Democrats with anti-Nixon ammunition for years to come.
 
NATIONAL SCENE
A Young Man And a War Hero: A G.O.P Ticket With Balance

It seemed strange to some that Dwight Eisenhower, a war hero running for President as a moderate, picked Richard Nixon as his running mate in 1952. But politically it made sense.
Eisenhower was reputed within the party to be the candidate of the "Eastern liberal establishment." He needed someone from the West or Middle West who could appeal to disappointed conservatives.
Further, the retired general knew, as Mr. Nixon later wrote, "that to maintain his above-the-battle position he needed a running mate who was willing to engage in all-out combat and who was good at it."
And in many ways Mr. Nixon himself projected a moderate image as a spokesman against corruption in government. At 39, he was young, bright and an effective speaker.
He first caught the attention of Eisenhower supporters in addressing a Republican dinner in New York three months before the nominating convention. Former Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York, twice the party's Presidential nominee and Eisenhower's chief backer, was reported to have told Mr. Nixon after his speech: "Make me a promise. Don't get fat, don't lose your zeal, and you can be President some day."
 
A Speech About Checkers, A Spot Secured
 The 1952 campaign was barely under way when, on Sept. 18, a sudden crisis loomed. The New York Post and other newspapers disclosed that 78 wealthy California businessmen had quietly raised a fund of $18,235 to defray political expenses for Senator Nixon.
Although establishment of such a fund would later seem mild, the news at the time stunned much of the country. Many Democrats and some Republicans, including Eisenhower's closest advisers, demanded that Mr. Nixon resign from the ticket on ethical grounds.
Eisenhower himself was silent for several days, finally saying only: "Nothing's decided. Nixon has got to be clean as a hound's tooth." Each wanted the other to make the decision. After Mr. Nixon told the general by telephone that it was time for the head of the ticket to make a decision, the Eisenhower people were convinced that Mr. Nixon had to go. But the general gave him the opportunity to state his case on national television.
By any measure, his defense was a virtuoso performance. He maintained that he had done nothing wrong, disclosed his mortgages and other financing to show he was in fact in debt, attacked Communism and asked people to tell the Republican National Committee whether they thought he should resign.
His most moving, and best remembered, remarks were in reference to his wife and a dog named Checkers.
"Pat and I have the satisfaction that every dime that we've got is honestly ours," he said. "I should say this -- that Pat doesn't have a mink coat. But she does have a respectable Republican cloth coat."
Then he said a man in Texas had given the family a cocker spaniel, "black and white and spotted."
"And our little girl, Tricia, the 6-year-old, named it Checkers. And you know, the kids love the dog, and I just want to say this right now, that regardless of what they do about it, we're going to keep it."
Public response was overwhelmingly pro-Nixon. Eisenhower asked him to meet him on the campaign trail in Wheeling, W.Va. When the Nixon plane landed, the general hopped aboard.
"General, you didn't need to come out to the airport," the surprised Mr. Nixon said.
"Why not," said the general, flashing his famous grin, "You're my boy."
After the Republican victory, Mr. Nixon turned out to be an active Vice President under a President who preferred to operate quietly. President Eisenhower was willing to delegate more tasks than most of his predecessors, and the energetic Mr. Nixon had a knack of keeping himself in the limelight, no manner how menial the assignment.
Probably his most important role was in foreign affairs. He visited 56 countries as a good-will envoy, but, more important, he served on the National Security Council, at the heart of policy decisions and intelligence. He was close to Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, whose policy of "brinksmanship" fit perfectly with Mr. Nixon's idea of bold and even risky actions abroad.
Mr. Nixon's travels abroad generated far more news than most trips by Vice Presidents. Unlike most, he was not content to engage in ceremony and quiet diplomacy. He invited crowds to engage him in dialogue, however tense relations might be between their country and his.
Thus Mr. Nixon's 1958 trip in South America turned out to be one of the "Six Crises" he would recall in his book. He managed sessions of crowd-mingling and argumentative discussion in Venezuela and Argentina with few problems. But in Peru crowds of students and others had been worked into an anti-Yankee, anti-Nixon frenzy by speakers and signs.
 
'Are You Afraid Of the Truth?'
 When a rock thrown from a crowd in Lima grazed the Vice President's neck and hit a Secret Service agent in the teeth, Mr. Nixon shook his fist at the crowd and asked, "Are you afraid to talk to me? Are you afraid of the truth?" He leapt onto the trunk of his car shouting: "Cowards! Are you afraid of the truth?"
In a later confrontation someone spat in his face. "I felt an almost uncontrollable urge to tear the face in front of me to pieces," he wrote later. "I at least had the satisfaction of planting a healthy kick on his shins. Nothing I did all day made me feel better."
Such confrontations paid off in public acclaim. On his return to the United States, he was greeted by cheering crowds as a conquering hero.
And there was the celebrated "kitchen debate" with the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, while Mr. Nixon was on a trip to Moscow in 1959 to open an American exhibit at a fair. In the kitchen of a model home, the two leaders engaged in a folksy dialogue on the relative merits of the capitalist and Soviet systems.
The two men stood jowl to jowl, the Soviet leader occasionally jabbing Mr. Nixon's chest for emphasis. The outcome was inconclusive, of course, but Mr. Nixon won acclaim at home for the forceful manner in which he defended the American system.
There were also attacks from his opponents. Frequent Herblock cartoons in The Washington Post showed him with a shadowy, hateful face; some showed him climbing out of a sewer to give a campaign talk. The Duke faculty voted 61 to 42 against giving Mr. Nixon an honorary degree.
Richard Nixon could never give up politics, however. He had tasted power and the excitement of living on the precipice, and he liked it. Pat Nixon, though she would still try to persuade him to retire from politics, resigned herself year after year to "another campaign."
 
AIMING HIGHER
 One Ballot, Four Debates, Two Defeats, And a Recovery

After the Eisenhower-Nixon ticket won again in 1956 by a wide margin, defeating Adlai E. Stevenson for a second time, Mr. Nixon groomed himself for the 1960 Presidential nomination. A rival, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, abandoned his efforts after Mr. Nixon's popularity shot up in the wake of the "kitchen debate."
The Republicans nominated Mr. Nixon on the first ballot at their convention in Chicago. Trying to appeal to the "Eastern establishment," he chose Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts as his running mate. The Democratic ticket was Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas.
The campaign went badly from the beginning. For the first time in his career, Mr. Nixon was on the defensive, forced to defend the Eisenhower record and to erase his reputation as an unfair campaigner.
Eisenhower, who had always had trouble embracing Mr. Nixon, did not help. At a news conference he was asked for an example of a major idea of Mr. Nixon's that had been adopted by the Administration. "If you give me a week, I might think of one," he replied. "I don't remember."
And the Nixon campaign itself was in many ways uncharacteristic. Mr. Nixon, who had always seemed prepared to take on any opponent anywhere, held Senator Kennedy and his family in awe in a way few of his supporters could understand. He admired the Kennedy family's fighting spirit and their wealth and status. Whatever the reason, he broke from his practice, and never made a slashing attack on his opponent..
A noted debater, he was not at his best in the four television debates with Mr. Kennedy. He was tense, and he declined the use of makeup: his dark beard and pasty forehead, with beads of sweat, made him appear on television to be the shadowy figure that cartoonists had depicted.
Throughout the campaign, the Vice President's serious, sometimes prim, demeanor was overshadowed by the charisma of the young Senator. This seemed more important than questions about an interest-free $205,000 loan from Howard Hughes to Mr. Nixon's brother Donald or such issuesas which candidate would be toughest against the Russians and which could, in Mr. Kennedy's words, "get this country moving again" in the wake of a recession.
 
A Quiet Pledge: 'I Would Be Back'
 Still, Mr. Nixon campaigned as doggedly as he ever had, and the outcome was extraordinarily close. In the popular vote Mr. Kennedy led by 113,000 out of 68.8 million cast. It was Mr. Nixon's first defeat and the last he would accept graciously. Many Republicans, believing that Democratic machines in Chicago and Texas had stolen the election for Mr. Kennedy, wanted to contest the outcome. But Mr. Nixon would not.
In his memoirs, he wrote that on the night of Mr. Kennedy's inauguration, when happy Democrats were celebrating throughout Washington, he went alone to the deserted Capitol and stood for several minutes on a balcony overlooking the snow-covered Mall and the Washington Monument.
"As I turned to go inside, I suddenly stopped short, struck by the thought that this was not the end, that someday I would be back here. I walked as fast as I could back to the car."
At the age of 48, Mr. Nixon returned to California and entered the 1962 race for Governor against the incumbent, Pat Brown, a Democrat seeking a second term.
It was another tumultuous campaign of charges and countercharges, but in the end the voters seemed to recognize what Mr. Nixon admitted in his memoirs: he did not really want to be Governor; he wanted to be President.
The night of his defeat he was in a foul mood. Mr. Nixon felt he had been abused by the press, and when reporters kept insisting that he make a statement, he marched into the press room and made an angry farewell-to-politics speech that included the line, "You won't have Nixon to kick around anymore, because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference."
Almost everyone believed that his political career was over. He had violated a basic rule of American politics: Never appear to be a poor loser.
But after that night he began a slow, measured recovery that would lead to victory in two Presidential elections. He wrote in his memoirs:
"I have never regretted what I said in 'the last press conference.' I believe that it gave the media a warning that I would not sit back and take whatever biased coverage was dished out to me. I think the episode was partially responsible for the much fairer treatment I received from the press during the next few years. From that point of view alone, it was worth it."
Ever restless, he moved to New York as a senior partner in a Wall Street law firm whose name became Nixon, Rose, Guthrie, Anderson & Mitchell. The Nixons settled in an expensive apartment on Fifth Avenue.
But Mr. Nixon spent little time as a lawyer. Rather, he worked at becoming President. The crushing defeat of its 1964 nominee, Barry Goldwater, left the Republican Party in a shambles. And it was Mr. Nixon who moved in and did the drudge work needed to rebuild a constituency, attending the dinners, the rallies, the conventions.
In 1966 he chartered a sputtering DC-3 to take him around the country to speeches on behalf of Republican Congressional candidates. Although his plane was modest, Mr. Nixon managed to appear Presidential, the head of a party that was starting to capitalize on the weaknesses of the Johnson Administration as public opposition to the Vietnam War mounted and as many people became fearful of rising crime and civil disorder.
On Jan. 31, 1968, he formally announced his candidacy for the Presidency. He rolled easily through the primaries. With the help of Southern conservatives, attracted by a promise that he would ease off on school desegregation, he won the nomination at the party's convention in Miami Beach on the first ballot, defeating Governor Rockefeller of New York, a liberal, and Governor Reagan of California, a conservative.
As in the 1950 Senate race, the cards fell Mr. Nixon's way. President Johnson withdrew as a candidate for re-election because of the opposition to the Vietnam War. Senator Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated in Los Angeles in June while campaigning for the Democratic nomination. Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey was nominated over an antiwar candidate, Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota, at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago while the police and demonstrators fought in the streets. But Mr. Humphrey was too closely tied to Mr. Johnson's policies for many Democrats, and when he finally announced his independent opposition to the war, it was too late to heal the wounds.
Millions of independents and moderates in both parties saw Mr. Nixon as a suitable alternative to another Democratic administration. At the age of 55 he seemed to have put the excesses of his youth behind him. His mastery of foreign affairs and the prospects that he would bring an era of reforms after years of hastily enacted "Great Society" programs at home appealed to many.
And in 1968 he was able to control as never before the image he projected to voters. By then, candidates could be and were packaged and sold on television. Campaign tours and rallies were useful mostly for showing on TV screens. The reality of a campaign could be altered to project the desired image.
John D. Ehrlichman, later a top White House assistant, recalled the campaign in his book, "Witness to Power." At an Oct. 31 rally in Madison Square Garden, for example, Nixon supporters were bused in from distant suburbs to fill the hall, while those off the street who looked as if they might boo or heckle the candidate were directed down a corridor that led back to the street.
"The television audience," Mr. Ehrlichman wrote, "saw only the thunderous cheering of a friendly, enthusiastic crowd of enlightened American voters."
Mr. Nixon won the popular vote by a narrow margin and got 301 electoral votes to 191 for Mr. Humphrey and 46 for Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, on a third-party ticket.
 
FIRST TERM
 More Spending, More Control, More Justices, More War

When Mr. Nixon became President, he had never before wielded executive authority. But he had been around power for so long and went to such great pains to keep abreast of affairs at home and abroad that he knew exactly what he would do.
Much of what he did in the domestic area was aimed at cementing his re-election in 1972, several Nixon aides said. He began by appointing a broadly based Cabinet that included elected officials like Gov. George Romney of Michigan as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and Walter J. Hickel, the former Governor of Alaska, as Interior Secretary. He named Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, who had been a liberal in the Kennedy Administration, as his chief urban affairs adviser, and Henry Kissinger, an adviser to Governor Rockefeller, as his chief foreign policy aide.
Despite his promises during the campaign and his Presidency to trim Government spending, Mr. Nixon presided over an expansion in spending. One reason was that he had to deal with a liberal, Democratic Congress. Another was that he did believe in many innovations for Government aid, and in the 1970's there was a strong public demand for such services.
He proposed a family assistance program that would have been more generous than the traditional welfare then on the books, he backed safety and health protection for workers and he called for housing allowances that would have moved many families out of public housing by giving them money to rent their own. His Administration built more subsidized housing units than any before or since, and he agreed to environmental legislation, including the Environmental Protection Act, that would pour billions into cleaning up the nation's air and waters.
Although few noticed it at the time, Mr. Nixon's expansion of the food stamp program would later be acknowledged as a remarkable breakthrough in social policy by a President who preached austerity: by 1982 it was helping to feed 1 in 10 Americans.
Another innovation that had an important effect on the nation was the program under which the Federal Government took several billion dollars each year from its tax receipts and distributed it, with few strings attached, to local governments. Looking to re-election, Mr. Nixon opted to give local officials the maximum authority over use of these revenue-sharing funds.
 
A 1972 Strategy To Comfort the South
 But much of this was little noticed at the time because of some of Mr. Nixon's positions on civil rights and his efforts to win the support of Southern conservatives breaking away from the Democratic Party.
He backed off on enforcement of school desegregation, supporting legislation and executive action that would vastly reduce the use of busing as the chief tool in achieving integration.
A cornerstone of this "Southern strategy" was his effort to change the makeup of the Supreme Court. Two conservative nominees from the South were rejected by the Senate, but Mr. Nixon was still able to reshape the court with four appointments: Warren E. Burger as Chief Justice, and Associate Justices Harry A. Blackmun, Lewis F. Powell Jr. and William H. Rehnquist.
In much of his Presidency, Mr. Nixon faced a troubled economy, and as pressure from Congress and the public mounted for him to do something to check inflation, he imposed wage and price controls in mid-1971.
The controls required him to set up the kind of bureaucracy he had hated in World War II. And when they were lifted, after the 1972 election, prices shot up again.
"What did America reap from its brief fling with economic controls?" Mr. Nixon asked in his memoirs. "The Aug. 15, 1971, decision to impose them was politically necessary and immensely popular in the short run. But in the long run I believe that it was wrong. The piper must be paid, and there was an unquestionably high price for tampering with the orthodox economic mechanisms."
It was a perfect example of how Richard Nixon would not let ideology stand in the way of a goal he was trying to achieve.
 
Concentrating On Foreign Policy
 Most of Mr. Nixon's energies, however, were spent in foreign affairs, and it was his actions in that field that led to his greatest accomplishments and also, in the view of some, to his undoing. His faltering efforts to end the Vietnam War brought out, more than anything else, what H. R. Haldeman, his chief aide, called his "dark side" -- paranoia about enemies real and imagined and violent temper tantrums.
Mr. Nixon tried to fulfill his pledge to end the Vietnam War, which had dragged on for four years, through what he privately called "the madman theory," and it did not work. Recalling that Eisenhower had ended the Korean War with bombings and a threat to use atomic weapons, Mr. Nixon sought to convey to North Vietnam a message that he was so obsessed by Communist aggression that he would do anything to force a settlement acceptable to the United States.
Neither the threat nor subsequent bombings and ground attacks into Cambodia by American troops worked. The North Vietnamese knew that the United States no longer had a great advantage over the Soviet Union in atomic weapons, as it did in the Korean War, and that they had the advantage in their home territory. They continued their struggle to capture South Vietnam.
American casualties continued to mount while the heavy costs fed inflation at home and drained money from domestic programs. Even as Mr. Nixon gradually withdrew troops from the war zone, opposition to American involvement grew. The White House and the Presidency came under siege in a way they never had.
On one day alone, half a million people descended on Washington and found the White House protected by a ring of buses parked bumper to bumper. On college campuses, students disrupted classes, took over offices and held officials hostage in a general rebellion against authority.
Inside the White House, Mr. Nixon raged at the protesters and frequently asserted that the troublemakers should be put down by force. On May 5, 1971, he and his aides discussed the possibility of recruiting "thugs" through the teamsters' union to silence the dissidents.
"They've got guys who'll go in and knock their heads off," Mr. Nixon said on a tape released several years later.
There was no evidence that the thugs were recruited, but the conversation conveyed the siege mentality that would lead to a range of excesses, illegal acts and corruption that would become known broadly as the Watergate scandal.
 
The Pentagon Papers, A Growing Anger

In many ways the seeds of the Nixon scandals were sown in the great debate over the Vietnam War, several of the President's assistants said later, because it was the public opposition, street demonstrations and leaks of classified information about the war that caused Mr. Nixon and his aides to become, in Mr. Nixon's word, "paranoiac" about their detractors.
Mr. Nixon was particularly disturbed when, on June 13, 1971, The New York Times began printing the findings of a 7,000-page study of American involvement in Southeast Asia from World War II until 1968, an investigation commissioned by Robert S. McNamara when he was Secretary of Defense under President Johnson.
"Publication of the Pentagon Papers was certain to hurt the whole Vietnam effort," Mr. Nixon wrote in his memoirs. "Critics of the war would use them to attack my goals and my policies."
The Justice Department thus sought a court injunction to stop further publication by The Times and other newspapers, which argued that the printed excerpts in no way violated national security. In a historic decision, the Supreme Court ruled that to stop publication would violate the First Amendment right of the press to publish events of public interest.
Mr. Nixon's anger, however, was less directed at the press than at Daniel Ellsberg, a former Government official who has said that he made the papers available to the press as a way to engender opposition to American conduct of the war.
Determined to punish Mr. Ellsberg, the President turned to his own aides to find incriminating evidence, and thus began building a system of covert investigative and protective actions outside the normal legal channels he distrusted. His aides' deeds ranged from burglaries and wiretaps to the compiling of a White House "enemies list" that included the names of many prominent officials and journalists.
 
A Unique Team, A Handshake in China

It was considered all the more remarkable that while Mr. Nixon and the nation were under great stress over Vietnam, he was able to carry out diplomatic feats elsewhere in the world on a scale unmatched in the years before or since. Secret negotiations that began soon after Mr. Nixon took office set the stage for opening relations with China and for a major nuclear arms agreement with the Soviet Union in 1972.
Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger made a singular team. They were in agreement on a vision for world order, and Mr. Nixon was barely in office before he stripped the State Department of much of its authority so that he and Mr. Kissinger, as his chief foreign affairs adviser in the White House, could work without interference.
Among their goals was what became the most historic part of the legacy of the Nixon presidency, the reversal of a long history of enmity and the beginnings of friendly relations with the country long deemed by Nixon to be a mortal enemy of the United States -- Communist China.
It would be difficult to overestimate the extent to which Mr. Nixon's rapprochement with China seemed at the time to contradict his long history of unremitting anti-Communism. Since the creation of the Communist Government in China, the United States, with Mr. Nixon's firm support, had maintained the fiction that the Communists' main enemy, the Nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek on Taiwan, was the legitimate Government of all of China. For all that time, the United States maintained not only diplomatic relations with Taiwan but was committed to guaranteeing its security against Beijing.
Adding to the historic enmity between the two countries was China's domestic situation in 1968. The country was in the midst of its Cultural Revolution, a radical and violent upheaval, promoted by Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong, aimed supposedly at purifying the revolution. Among the country's major public policies was bitter enmity toward the United States, for being the world's leading "imperialist" power and for continuing its "aggression" against Vietnam.
Still, even before winning the Presidency in 1968, Mr. Nixon was exploring a change in Sino-American relations. In October 1967, he wrote an article in Foreign Affairs in which he stressed the short-term need to exercise "firm restraint" against China and to maintain pressure to get Beijing to "accept the basic rules of international civility." But Mr. Nixon also spoke of a long-term goal of "pulling China back into the world community -- but as a great and progressing nation, not as the epicenter of world revolution."
After taking office, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger engaged in a subtle diplomatic minuet with China, the two sides giving public hints of a desire for a better relationship while passing messages to each other via Pakistan and Romania. "If there is anything I want to do before I die," Mr. Nixon said in an interview with Time Magazine in October 1970, giving one of his broader public hints of a change in policy, "it is to go to China."
In July 1971, Mr. Kissinger made a secret trip to Beijing for talks with Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai. That led in turn to Mr. Nixon's historic, five-day trip to Beijing in February 1972.
In his memoirs, Mr. Nixon recalled looking down at the tarmac after Air Force One arrived in Bejing and seeing Mr. Zhou standing hatless in the cold waiting to greet him. Remembering that the Chinese leader had been deeply offended when, in 1954 in Geneva, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles had refused to shake his hand, Mr. Nixon conspicuously thrust out his hand as he approached Mr. Zhou.
It is not too much to say that the handshake inaugurated a new era in international diplomacy. Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger had decided that relations with China would, as Mr. Kissinger put it in his memoirs, enable the United States to "take account of other power centers and strive for an equilibrium among them."
In practice this meant several things, including easing tensions in Asia generally. But most important, the new policy involved greater leverage for the United States against the Soviet Union and thus enhancing what Mr. Kissinger called a better "world equilibrium."
 
A Focus on Moscow Results in a Treaty
 Full, formal diplomatic relations were not established between China and the United States until 1978 during the Carter administration. But the Nixon initiative, while changing the global balance of power, had other immediate practical effects. It opened communications and commerce between the United States and the world's most populous nation. After Mr. Nixon's televised one-week visit there, many thousands of Americans would explore vast regions of Asia closed to them for almost three decades; millions more at home would read and see accounts of a society that had undergone drastic change.
And it did not cause a worsening of relations with the Soviet Union, as some had predicted it would.
In fact, a determination to pursue detente with Moscow became the overriding aim of American foreign policy, and the President's China trip was followed in May by the first of three summit meetings that Mr. Nixon held with Leonid I. Brezhnev and other Soviet leaders.
The major achievement was an agreement in 1972 to limit the use of the defensive weapons known as antiballistic missiles, an effort to stop what Mr. Nixon said "inevitably would have become a defensive arms race, with untold billions being spent on each side."
Yet the President and Mr. Kissinger came under wide criticism for subordinating everything to the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union.
"Nuclear proliferation, North-South economic relations, Africa as a whole, and relations with traditional allies were often ignored until they developed a 'Soviet dimension,' whether imagined or real," Leslie H. Gelb, diplomatic correspondent for The New York Times, wrote in summing up the Nixon-Kissinger achievements. And officials of both political parties were offended by the secrecy and duplicity they detected in much of the Administration's foreign policy and in the dealings with countries like Chile and Angola. Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger were often accused of failing to support human rights around the world out of deference to their pursuit of detente.
But in 1972, what stood out in the public eye was that the man who had spent much of his life as a hard-nosed anti-Communist had scored a breakthrough with the Communist world that enhanced the chances of peace.
 
RE-ELECTION
 Promising Peace, Shaping Images, Building Power, Eyeing Scandal

Indeed, Mr. Nixon's foreign-policy initiatives became the cornerstone of his re-election campaign. Opposition to the Vietnam War had abated somewhat as Mr. Nixon canceled the draft, continued to withdraw American troops and held out the promise of a peace treaty.
There was much about his first term that had broad public appeal, and the Democrats seemed to do everything they could to help him.
Most important, they nominated Senator George McGovern of South Dakota for President. By appealing to a range of interest groups on the left, the unabashed liberal prevailed in enough state primaries and caucuses to win a majority of votes at the national convention, where the old "party bosses" who once controlled the nomination had been excluded.
With the advantage of being in office, Mr. Nixon was able to exceed his 1968 performance in controlling the image he wished to portray on television, that of a strong, moderate President who could get things done, backed by enthusiastic crowds shouting, "Four more years!"
And voters at the center were so distrustful of Mr. McGovern and his liberal supporters that he never seemed to be within striking distance of victory.
On June 17, five men employed by the Committee for the Re-election of the President were arrested in a burglary at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate apartment-office complex in Washington, and two others were later arrested. White House officials, including the President, dismissed the burglary as a stupid act by overzealous campaign workers, and the defendants said no one close to Mr. Nixon had been involved.
The Democrats' efforts to turn the incident into a campaign issue had little effect, and Mr. Nixon's victory was overwhelming: the President took 60.7 percent of the popular vote. Only Massachusetts and the District of Columbia voted for Mr. McGovern.
But he later said a melancholy settled over him on that victorious night. Before his second inauguration, he disappeared from public view for days at a time, planning his next four years and brooding over the refusal of North Vietnam and South Vietnam to ratify the peace treaty that Mr. Kissinger thought he had secured shortly before the election.
 
Ending a Long War And Controlling the Peace

In December, the President ordered the extensive "Christmas bombings" of North Vietnam, which he justified in the face of widespread public criticism as necessary to drive the North Vietnamese back to the bargaining table. An agreement was finally signed on Jan. 27, 1973, ending the longest war in United States history.
Although many believed that the terms were no better than might have been obtained when Mr. Nixon first took office, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger disagreed.
The "peace with honor" settlement, which included the return of American prisoners, was supposed to protect the independence of South Vietnam. (Just more than two years after the agreement was signed, however, North Vietnamese troops took over the country, and the remaining Americans barely escaped from Saigon.)
With four years remaining to make his final imprint on history, Mr. Nixon set out to remake the Presidency into an even stronger, more centrally controlled institution than he had made it in his first term.
He began to punish the journalists who had offended him by denying them access to certain functions, snubbing in particular reporters from The Washington Post, which had aggressively reported the Watergate burglary.
There would be virtually no more elected officials in the Cabinet; only tried and true Nixon staff people would be nominated to head departments.
Mr. Nixon's relations with the Democratic Congress, far from harmonious in the first term, worsened as he refused to spend money appropriated for some purposes and to circumvent Congressional authority in other areas.
Presidential scholars like Thomas E. Cronin said Mr. Nixon had "systematically gone about trying to strengthen the Presidency in a great number of ways, frequently by circumventing the Constitution or expanding on past practices that were ambiguous or questionable."
His aims included strengthening the hand of the White House in foreign policy and reducing the Federal domestic programs that had proliferated since World War II, returning much authority to the states.
Mr. Nixon had barely embarked on that course, however, when he became so involved in defending himself in the Watergate scandals that he had no time or authority left for making over the Government.
 
A Mystery Unfolds On a National Stage

The United States has never experienced another period like the one from March 1973 to August 1974, when the overriding concern about the Government was whether the President and his closest aides had ordered a burglary and sought to cover up their role in it, and whether in fact they had engaged in other illegal acts to promote the goals and punish the enemies of Richard Nixon.
It was like living in an oversized mystery novel.
The role of government and the unfolding of policy was almost forgotten in the process as the scandals were played out on television and in the press.
No President had been forced from office in the history of the Republic, not even Andrew Johnson, who was impeached by the House on political charges in the debate over Reconstruction but was spared conviction by one vote in the Senate.
And no President had ever been so exposed to public view. Intimate conversations in the Oval Office, thanks to Mr. Nixon's elaborate tape-recording system, were laid bare for national scrutiny, providing not only the eventual evidence of wrongdoing that caused his downfall but also the unsavory view of the man and the men around him that led many to believe, for the first time, that the President could indeed do wrong.
Though the burglary of the Democratic headquarters at the Watergate complex took place in June 1972, it was not until the following March that the scandal began to unfold.
At that time, Judge John J. Sirica of Federal District Court threatened long jail terms for the defendants, and James W. McCord, who had been convicted on burglary charges in January, responded by promising to tell all in return for leniency. Mr. McCord implicated John W. Dean 3d, the White House counsel, who, also fearful of a long prison term, began to talk to investigators.
Mr. Dean's full story was disclosed in the summer in televised hearings before the select committee of the Senate that had been set up to investigate the matter, with Senator Sam J. Ervin as chairman. In flat, unemotional tones, Mr. Dean told a startling story of White House involvement in Watergate from the day of the burglary onward, of Mr. Nixon's knowledge of a cover-up and of his participation in it.
Between the time that Mr. Dean began to talk to investigators and his public testimony before the committee, Mr. Nixon dismissed Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman, both prime targets in the investigation, calling them "two of the finest public servants I have ever known." At the same time, he announced that Defense Secretary Elliot L. Richardson, a respected member of the Republican Party's moderate wing, would become Attorney General and would have the authority to name a special prosecutor for the Watergate case.
Then, on July 16, Alexander P. Butterfield, a former aide, disclosed to the Senate Watergate committee that Mr. Nixon had secretly taped conversations in his Oval Office almost from the beginning of his Presidency.
There began a long series of struggles by Congressional committees and prosecutors to obtain the tapes for evidence, with Mr. Nixon resisting on the theory that a dispute within the executive branch or a dispute between Congress and the President was not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and that the President's private counsels were protected in order to maintain the efficient operation of government.
As the dispute over the tapes continued through September, a parallel but unrelated crisis erupted: Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, a former Governor of Maryland, turned out to be a major embarrassment at the worst possible time for the President.
 
Agnew Is Out, And Ford Is Tapped
 In July 1973, Federal prosecutors accused Mr. Agnew of taking money from contractors who solicited business with Maryland; the prosecutors said the practice continued even when he was Vice President. While Mr. Nixon was fighting the Watergate charges, Mr. Agnew was fighting accusations of old-fashioned fraud.
Finally, on Oct. 10, after prosecutors had built what appeared to be an airtight case against Mr. Agnew, he agreed to resign and in return was permitted to plead no contest to one count of tax evasion. Two days later, Mr. Nixon appointed Representative Gerald R. Ford of Michigan as Vice President.
His selection of the well-liked House minority leader was seen as a way to avoid another confrontation with Congress, which had to approve the choice. But as the charges unfolded week after week, month after month, Mr. Nixon seemed to lose much of his political judgment. The "Saturday Night Massacre" of Oct. 20, 1973, was a case in point.
After Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor, refused to go along with a Nixon plan for access to the White House tapes, the President ordered Attorney General Richardson to dismiss Mr. Cox.
The Attorney General refused, and resigned. His deputy, William D. Ruckelshaus, refused, and was dismissed. Finally Solicitor General Robert H. Bork, appointed Acting Attorney General, dismissed Mr. Cox.
To many Americans, the action was a naked use of power against the judicial processes, and it caused a major erosion of support for the President. Calls for his resignation mounted. Dozens of Watergate-related bills were introduced in Congress. Several impeachment resolutions were referred to the House Judiciary Committee.
In many ways, the President seemed not to care. Mr. Cox, a Harvard Law School professor, had been stacking his staff with "Kennedy liberals" determined to get him, he said. "Given the terms of his charter," Mr. Nixon said in his memoirs, "it would be only a matter of time before they had bored like termites through the whole executive branch."
 
The Unexplained Gap, The New Prosecutor

The President quickly relented, however, on the subpoenaed tapes -- after disclosing that two of the nine tapes were missing and a third contained an unexplained 18 1/2-minute "gap" -- and he announced that a new special prosecutor would be appointed.
Soon the new prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, wanted more tapes. The Senate Watergate committee wanted tapes. The House Judiciary Committee wanted tapes.
Had it not been for the tapes, most authorities on the Watergate period say, Mr. Nixon almost certainly would have finished his term. Years later he said he wished he had destroyed them but had refrained because he thought he could use them for his own legal defense -- never believing he would have to give them up.
At a convention of editors in Orlando, Fla., on Nov. 17, 1973, he said: "People have got to know whether or not their President is a crook. Well, I'm not a crook."
When his popularity in the public opinion polls reached a historic low, he tried various means of restoring it. One effort was trips abroad to demonstrate his mastery of diplomacy -- to the Middle East, where Mr. Kissinger's shuttle diplomacy had laid the groundwork for peace between Egypt and Israel, and to the Soviet Union, for arms reduction talks with Mr. Brezhnev. Watergate was little understood in those countries, and he was enthusiastically received.
Nothing worked.
 
RESIGNATION
 Threatened By Impeachment, The President Decides to Leave
 On March 1, 1974, the Federal grand jury indicted seven former Nixon aides in the "continuing" cover-up of Watergate, including Bob Haldeman, John Ehrlichman and former Attorney General John N. Mitchell, who had run the '72 campaign. At the same time, the jurors asked that some of its evidence be turned over to the House Judiciary Committee for its impeachment investigation. It was later disclosed that the grand jury named Mr. Nixon an unindicted co-conspirator.
The pressure mounted on the President, from those who wanted proof of his innocence as well as those who wanted proof of his guilt, to release more evidence. In April, he went on television to announce that he would make public edited transcripts of White House conversations concerning Watergate, totaling 1,308 pages. Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, the Judiciary Committee chairman, said that that would not do; the tapes themselves were needed. But the transcripts alone, incomplete though they were, hurt the President greatly.
The term "expletive deleted" entered the language to denote profane and vulgar expressions not deemed suitable for release in the transcripts. And it became clear that the President was a man who used "Jew" as an epithet.
Hugh Scott, the Senate Republican leader, said the transcripts showed a "deplorable, shabby, disgusting and immoral performance" by the President and his aides. John Rhodes, the House Republican leader, said the President should consider resigning.
The tapes and other evidence from the investigations eventually showed in great detail these aspects of the "dark side" of the Nixon Presidency that had been concealed from public view. Among them were these:
*Mr. Nixon's involvement in the cover-up. Not only did he propose paying hush money to the Watergate defendants to keep them from implicating the White House; he also ordered a halt to the investigation by the F.B.I.
*Illegal burglaries. Mr. Nixon was so disturbed by leaks of official information that a "plumbers group" was set up in the basement of the White House to plug the leaks. Among their illegal operations was the burglary of the office of a California psychiatrist who was treating Daniel Ellsberg, the man who had disclosed the Pentagon Papers.
*Invasion of privacy. After Mr. Nixon's secret bombing of Cambodia in 1970, White House officials, acting under his and Mr. Kissinger's orders, had taps placed on the home telephones of at least 17 journalists and officials suspected of unauthorized disclosures.
*Corruption of Government agencies. Mr. Nixon and his aides drew both the F.B.I. and the Central Intelligence Agency into the Watergate cover-up. For instance, as acting director of the F.B.I., L. Patrick Gray 3d destroyed, for White House aides, an envelope of documents believed to bear on the Watergate burglary. President Nixon also personally ordered the Justice Department not to appeal, as it had planned to, an antitrust court decision involving the International Telephone and Telegraph Company. And the articles of impeachment drawn by the House Judiciary Committee charged that Mr. Nixon and his aides tried to get the Internal Revenue Service to punish those the President disliked.
*"Dirty tricks." Up to a point, sabotage of an opponent's campaign had been common in American politics for many years. But operations set up by the Nixon White House and his election committee exceeded anything known in the past. Some of the more elaborate plans were never carried out, but others were: for example, falsely accusing Mr. Humphrey and Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington, another Presidential hopeful, of sexual improprieties, and hiring picketers to disrupt rallies with stink bombs in the Florida Democratic primary of 1972.
*Abuse of campaign funds. Money for Mr. Nixon's re-election poured in from wealthy corporate heads and others, far more than any candidate had ever been known to receive. The oil industry alone gave $5 million. Some of it was diverted to "dirty tricks" or other espionage and used as "hush money" for the Watergate burglars.
One number in particular indicates the depth of the scandal: 19 Nixon aides and associates would serve prison terms.
In late July, the House Judiciary Committee, with television cameras rolling and millions of Americans watching, deliberated articles of impeachment against the President of the United States. At the end of the month, with some Republicans joining the majority Democrats, the committee charged that "in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed," Richard Nixon had "prevented, obstructed and impeded the administration of justice."
Another article charged him with abuse of power, and a third concerned his defiance of Congressional subpoenas.
It seemed almost certain that the full House would impeach the President. And his chances of avoiding conviction by the Senate were beginning to seem little better than Andrew Johnson's.
The same week, the Supreme Court had ordered the President to turn over to Judge Sirica the records of 64 conversations that might provide evidence for the trial of his former aides.
And in early August, in response to that ruling, he released the tapes that came to be known as the "smoking gun" -- recordings of three conversations with Mr. Haldeman on June 23, 1972, six days after the Watergate burglary, that showed conclusively that Mr. Nixon had ordered a halt to the F.B.I. investigation.
The President acknowledged that he had kept this information from his supporters on the Judiciary Committee and even from his own lawyers, and took full responsibility for the "serious act of omission."
On Aug. 7 the President met with his family and aides, and that night, following constitutional procedure, Mr. Nixon informed Secretary of State Kissinger that he had decided to step down. Vice President Ford was told the next morning.
At 9 P.M. on Aug. 8, the President appeared on television and announced that he would resign at noon the next day.
"Throughout the long and difficult period of Watergate," he told the nation, "I have felt it was my duty to persevere, to make every possible effort to complete the term of office to which you elected me. In the past few days, however, it has become evident to me that I no longer have a strong enough political base in Congress to justify continuing that effort."
At 11:30 the next morning his letter was delivered to Mr. Kissinger. It said. "Dear Mr. Secretary: I hereby resign the office of President of the United States. Sincerely, Richard Nixon."
He said a tearful farewell to the staff, urging those who had worked for him to be proud of their record in government and to guard against bitterness. A short time later, for the last time as President, he and Mrs. Nixon, still surrounded by all the trappings of power, boarded Air Force One and flew home to San Clemente. Mr. Ford was sworn in to serve the two and a half years remaining in the Nixon term.
 
LATER YEARS
 A Pardon, An Obsession: History To Be Written

Mr. Nixon was 61 years old when he went into forced retirement at his seaside home in California. Out of office, he could have faced the same sort of prosecution for Watergate crimes as his aides were undergoing, but on Sept. 8, President Ford unexpectedly granted him an unconditional pardon for all Federal crimes he "committed or may have committed or taken part in" while in office.
Mr. Ford said that Mr. Nixon had suffered enough and that a protracted criminal trial of a former President would only distract the nation from healing the wounds caused by the Watergate scandal.
With the full pension and staff accorded all former Presidents, Mr. Nixon began work on his memoirs. From then on, every word he wrote, every public act, was directed to rehabilitating his record for history.
He began to appear before audiences where he knew he would be received warmly. He returned to China to enthusiastic welcomes and soon began popping up all over the world.
In 1977 he appeared in a series of television interviews with David Frost; it was Mr. Nixon's first national exposure since his resignation. Once again, many Americans were transfixed by his audacity and eager to hear what he would have to say. But there was little new. He said he had committed a series of tactical or judgmental errors, but not the high crimes or misdemeanors he was charged with.
Over the years, asked if he was sorry or would apologize to the American people for Watergate, Mr. Nixon repeatedly said no. Asked again in April 1984, in a television interview with a former aide, Frank Gannon, he replied:
"My answer to that question and to those who say, 'Will you apologize?' 'Are you sorry?' is simply a fact: There's no way that you could apologize that is more eloquent, more decisive, more finite, or to say that you are sorry, which would exceed resigning the Presidency of the United States. That said it all. And I don't intend to say any more."
Mr. Nixon became a prolific writer. His memoirs, published in two volumes in 1978, told the story of a reasonable and conscientious man beset by extraordinary difficulties. A 1980 book, "The Real War," discussed world affairs. The Nixon byline appeared on Op-Ed pages in The New York Times and other newspapers. In 1982 he published "Leaders," a gossipy book about the world leaders he knew and admired most -- Churchill, de Gaulle, Khrushchev, Zhou Enlai and others.
Five more books followed, most of them about foreign affairs. A sixth, "Beyond Peace," on the role of the United States beyond the cold war, is scheduled for publication by Random House early this summer.
In 1979, the Nixons sold their California home and moved to a town house on East 65th Street. In 1981 they moved to Saddle River, N.J., and later to Park Ridge, N.J.
Over the years after his resignation, much of the public acclaim Mr. Nixon worked for and hoped for materialized. He was lionized in France and in Oxford, England, on a 1978 tour of Europe.
But his political stature was never fully revived. He was barred from practicing law in both California and New York. National Republican leaders, remembering that Watergate had cost them many elected offices, refrained from including him among the party's notables at their national conventions.
In 1992, for the first time since he left the Presidency, Mr. Nixon was mentioned at a Republican National Convention. On the final night of the convention in Houston, his face was shown on the giant screens in the Astrodome, and it drew a cheer from the faithful celebrating George Bush's nomination.
With the fall of the Soviet Union, Mr. Nixon made aid to Russian and the former Soviet republics his own personal crusade. In 1992, he pushed President George Bush into taking more forceful steps to help the Russian government. And in 1993, President Clinton invited Mr. Nixon to the family quarters of the White House to discuss Russia.
Last June, Pat Nixon, who had been ill for several years, died of lung cancer, but Mr. Nixon continued to write and travel.
But however much he seemed rehabilitated politically, however active he was in international affairs, Mr. Nixon never completely escaped the shadows.
When his library opened in Yorba Linda in 1990, there was a marvelous celebration, where he was praised not only by President Bush but also by former Presidents Ford and Reagan.
But no one forgot that the Nixon library was different. Unlike the libraries of his predecessors and successors, Mr. Nixon's did not contain his official papers and was not under the supervision of the National Archives.
From the day he resigned, he had fought arduously to keep the documents and tapes of his Presidency under seal. Ever wary of scrutiny, Richard Milhous Nixon did not want to make the record of his Administration open to the public.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chronology: A HISTORIC FAREWELL: 1974 -- Richard Milhous Nixon, the 37th President of the United States and the only one to resign the office, made a final farewell on Aug. 9 as he boarded a helicopter on the White House lawn for the last time. (George Tames/The New York Times) (pg. 29); CHECKERS: 1952 -- Mr. Nixon used television to defend himself against charges that threatened his position as Eisenhower's running mate. In the speech, he mentioned that his wife, Pat, had a "respectable Republican cloth coat," and said his family had no intention of giving up their dog, Checkers. (Associated Press); KITCHEN DEBATE: 1959 -- At an American exhibit at a fair in Moscow, Mr. Nixon and the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, engaged in a folksy dialogue on the relative merits of the capitalist and Soviet systems. (Associated Press); DEFEAT: 1960 -- Although a noted debater, Mr. Nixon was not at his best in four televised debates with John F. Kennedy. He was tense, and he declined the use of makeup: his dark beard and pasty forehead, with beads of sweat, made him appear on television to be the shadowy figure that cartoonists had depicted. (Associated Press); VICTORY: 1968 -- Having learned from his 1960 mistakes, Mr. Nixon was able as never before to control the image he projected to voters. He and his wife, Pat, celebrated his election to the Presidency at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York. (Carl T. Gossett/The New York Times) (pg 30); CHINA: 1972 -- His most notable foreign policy triumph was the establishment of relations with China. The beginning of a new era was symbolized by the sharing of a toast with Zhou Enlai in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. (Associated Press)' VIETNAM: 1969 -- His efforts to end the war came to naught for years, and opposition to the war caused deep divisions in America. He was greeted by troops in Saigon. (White House photograph); DETENTE: 1972 -- Mr. Nixon initiated detente and nuclear arms control treaties with the Soviet Union. He and Leonid I. Brezhnev signed a major arms limitation treaty in Moscow. (United Press International) (pg 31); INNER CIRCLE: 1970 -- Mr. Nixon entered the White House promising to decentralize authority but almost immediately consolidated it in himself and a few White House aides, like H. R. Haldeman, left, and John D. Ehrlichman, at the expense of his Cabinet. (The Nixon Archive); WATERGATE: 1974 -- The coverup of a cheap political burglary of Democratic offices in the Watergate complex ultimately cost Mr. Nixon the Presidency. Peter W. Rodino Jr., seated near flag, presided at House Judiciary Committee hearings. (Mike Lien/The New York Times) (pg. 32); RESIGNATION: 1974 -- The Watergate scandal reached a climax on Aug. 9, when Richard Milhous Nixon became the first president to resign the office. He made a tearful farewell speech to his staff before leaving the White House for good. (Mike Lien/The New York Times) Two days earlier, he embraced his daughter Julie after deciding to resign. (White House photograph); ELDER STATESMAN: 1994 -- He said he was not content "to just fade away" and continued to travel ceaselessly. Last month he visited Ukraine during a tour of former Soviet republics. (Associated Press) (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography; Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (79%); VIETNAM (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (79%); VIETNAM (79%); VIET NAM (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); BURGLARY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); PARDONS (60%); MISDEMEANORS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994



581 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
At Yale, Nude Trolls And Pigs That Fly

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
YOU may have heard the story about the professor who asked, "How would you produce 'Peer Gynt?' " and the student who answered, "Do it on the radio." Variations of the response have come up in plays ("Educating Rita") and no doubt in theater classes for a century. (Someone once said: "Get the record.")
It's not that Ibsen's phantasmagorical epic, the theatrical equivalent of a dare, has been wanting in productions since its premiere in 1867, even though Edvard Grieg's "Peer Gynt" Suite is more frequently performed. One production in Sweden in the 1950's had 106 adults and 120 children in the cast. A streamlined version at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park (in 1969) starred Stacy Keach, Judy Collins, Olympia Dukakis and Estelle Parsons. 
 Last year at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, a staging in Swedish by Ingmar Bergman ran four hours though it too was abridged. And Mark Lamos directed the full five-hour version in two parts to considerable acclaim with Richard Thomas in the title role at Hartford Stage Company in 1989. A 1961 Off Broadway musical, "Meet Peter Grant," was a Peer Gynt knockoff in a Midwestern setting.
Still, it's a fearsome thing, attending to the demands of what Walter Kerr called "a dozen little plays in a dozen different styles, held together only by the fact that a single imagination was coping with them all without too evident signs of indigestion."
 
'Spiritual Liberation and Catharsis'
 Spanning some 60 years, "Peer Gynt" spins an allegory -- dread word -- about what Ibsen called "spiritual liberation and catharsis." Peer Gynt has been variously called a liar, a happy-go-lucky lad, a lusty bumpkin, a no-good bum, a tragic clown, a visionary anti-hero and an extroverted Everyman.
At a wedding he abducts and abandons the bride (Ingrid). He has his way with the virgin Solveig. He falls under the spell of the trolls (who symbolize total self-indulgence). After making millions in America, he loses them in Morocco and wanders in the Sahara, steals the jewels of a dancing girl (Anitra), becomes master of a madhouse in Cairo and returns to Norway, finding salvation through the true love of Solveig.
Undaunted by a tale that scales mountain tops, in the process depicting a sphinx, a shipwreck, a troll kingdom and other extravagances, Jean Randich, a director, decreed "Peer Gynt" her thesis production at the Yale School of Drama. "Why not do something I'll never get a chance to do, something wild, something impossible?" she asked.
Under the title "Gynt" -- perhaps in the hope that the production will prove truly peerless -- Ibsen's classic, Randich style (five acts, three hours, one intermission) is to open Tuesday and run through Saturday at the University Theater (222 York Street, New Haven; 432-1234), which has been radically reconfigured for the occasion.
 
Actors and Audience on a Plane
 With capacity reduced to 130, platforms corresponding to stage level have been built atop the theater's 800 seats. The audience -- seated on risers, not chairs -- and the actors are on the same plane. The setting, designed by Ritirong Jiwakanon, extends to the rear wall, encompassing the theater's scene shop as well as the exits. When the door opens, Gynt, now in his late 70's, is presumably to continue his search on the streets of New Haven.
"As written, the play is circular, with Gynt going back to Norway," said Frederic Marguerre, the production's administrative director and a second year drama student. "Jean's vision, which ends in 1994, tries to break that circle."
Mr. Marguerre described the theater's conversion as "an extraordinary luxury." "We call it an economic vacuum because we're not thinking in economic terms, but creatively and academically, for art's sake, which gives us all the freedom outside the realm of finances."
Mr. Marguerre described Ms. Randich's revisionist "Gynt" as "psychological, intense, under the skin, clear and gripping." He continued: "She forces you to rethink. Romance is removed, but the end is full of emotion."
"It's surreal, it's supernatural, Felliniesque and grounded in reality, with 1920's black and white and 1960's Pop art scenes -- and cross-gender casting," the director added.
 
An Anitra Like Divine?
 "Anitra is played by a man -- like Divine -- and the trolls are in combat boots, wire masks, Mozart periwigs -- surface Baroque royalty -- but they have nothing on. And huge wire pigs fly and the sphinx drops."
The sound design is by Robert C. Cotnoir. Mr. Marguerre described the music as "loud, psychedelic, funky -- one style is dubbed on top of another -- and somewhat overwhelming." And not a note of Grieg.
In a "Gynt" marketing blitz, Mr. Marguerre has showered New Haven's merchants with "Gynt" posters, "Gynt" T-shirts and helped to circulate the buzz that the show is "not long and boring."
"Peer Gynt" has, of course, invited voluminous critical analysis. Kenneth Tynan called it "a study of the fallacy that is inherent in total dedication to self-fulfillment." Eric Bentley wrote that " 'Peer Gynt,' though not quite a prophecy of other-directedness, is about the danger of self-disrespect, of having no sense of identity, of being a human onion, all layers and no center."
And Mr. Kerr may have paved the way for what Ms. Randich calls a production that "lets everybody go, to shake everything up" when he wrote: "The notion of a perfect production of 'Peer Gynt' may be a contradiction in terms. We must let the play be perverse in order to have something to contend with."
"It's a lot of fun," Ms. Randich said. "We're reaching for a conjunction of the erotic and the spiritual but the story's accessible. And we all know what monsters are. They're inside of us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PETER GYNT (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); MOROCCO (71%); SWEDEN (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY SICOME SA (63%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MOROCCO (71%); SWEDEN (71%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); MUSIC (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); CHILDREN (74%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; IBSEN, HENRIK (1828-1906) ESTELLE PARSONS (56%); JUDITH MARJORIE 'JUDY' COLLINS (56%); INGMAR BERGMAN (56%); OLYMPIA DUKAKIS (56%); WALTER FRANCIS KERR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



582 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 27; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: A Prolific Playwright Finds Name Dropping Pays

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
ASK Larry Myers why his two newest plays running through next Sunday at the Theater for the New City in the East Village of Manhattan are called "The Sal Mineo Fan Club Comes to Order" and "Gene Tierney Moved Next Door." He answers, "One, because I'm a poet, and two, to sell tickets."
"A play's got to have a name that grabs people," said Mr. Myers, who wrote many of his 40-odd plays in East Quogue. "Tennessee Williams once told me that." 
 Surely an undiscovered playwright could have done worse than heed the advice of the master of the punchy and the poetic title. Mr. Myers, who says his friendship with the playwright motivated his own career, remembers how even Williams's obscure stories have tantalizing titles like "Desire and the Black Masseur" and "Talk to Me Like the Rain."
 
Advice for His Students
 Mr. Myers now dispenses his advice at St. John's University in Jamaica, where he is an associate professor of speech. He tells students searching for a playwriting handbook:
"Do anything. Try African tribal dancing. Have a passionate affair. Take a trip. Read anything, except a book about theater. That's the last thing to do. Go out and listen to people, and listen to what's behind what they say. Be a snoop. And keep your mouth shut."
When a parent of an acting student said, "My daughter wants to go to graduate school to study acting," Mr. Myers responded:
"Acting? She'll be a waitress. Tell her to study lighting, all the technical things. That's where the money is."
"Tenure at a major university and being up for teacher of the year is better than having a show on the boards," Mr. Myers said. That, obviously, is his own coup when he offers a practical guide to a life in the theater.
 
'Get a Job, Get a Life'
 On a more reachable level, he cautions, "Get a job, get a life."
"A life? I have more than one," Mr. Myers said. "I'm very into new-age thought. I took the course in miracles."
"I've tried everything," he added, mentioning a medicine wheel made of shells that he found on beaches in the Hamptons.
And then there are herbal, vitamin and aromatherapy, meditation and astrology. "The truth is in the stars," he said, "and I don't mean Sal Mineo or Gene Tierney. And you are what you eat. You are who you hang around with."
He went on about psychic connections, and mythological, metaphysical and mystical channeling.
"But I'm not purely new age," Mr. Myers emphasized, calling on a playwright's inclination to satirize. "I went through a period with crystals. But I rolled over in bed and got gorged by one."
 
His Version of Theater World
 A conversation about Mr. Myers's life -- his lives -- and whom he spends time with is dotted with references to accessing of energy, emotionally invested moment-to-moment configurations, diversional devices, personal theater, the empty black hole of theater space and the sensory lever for personal growth.
"The theater world is all artificial egos removed from reality," he said. "Actors come to theater to be saved, but there's no salvation there."
But theater itself has to be saved, Mr. Myers said. "People are impatient," he said. "They don't care. They want a quick fix, a video. Everything has to happen very fast.
"So theater, which is one of the few communal rituals left -- it has its own immediacy -- has to compete with TV and video. My plays provide a short circuit for the 90's. I know it's a little much, but isn't the world?"
Mr. Myers's catalogue of titles may sound more than a little much. Consider "Hart Crane: Hard-Drinking Poet," "Tarantulas Dancing," "Lincoln: The Man, the Car and the Tunnel," "Voodoo Economics," "Thighs Like Tina Turner," "A Valentine for Carole Lombard," "Three Prayers for Betty Hutton, the Millennium's Virtual Reality," "Keith Harring Is My Idol" and "Cha Cha to the Outer Limits."
 
What a Playright Is
 But their concerns -- AIDS, cancer, serial murders, alcoholism, teen-age suicide and, in Mr. Myers's words, "romances between peculiar people" -- are not frivolous, the playwright was quick to add. "They are about things happening now," he said. "The playwright is an emotional detective, exploring phobias, obsessions, passions and dreams."
While spending time in East Quogue at the houses of friends, Mr. Myers writes one play after another. "A lot of my writing is done by the sea," he said, and that enabled him to feel a communion with Eugene O'Neill.
The current twin bill includes four monologues as well. They are about Steve Cochran, Ava Gardner (whose inner child is Jane Withers), Harry of Hollywood, a hairstylist, and Cat Woman, who is being played by Wonderley White.
Dean Goodman ("He was Marlene Dietrich's son-in-law") is scheduled to play in "Sal Mineo" this summer in San Francisco, and Mr. Myers expects Elaine Barrymore ("She married John Barrymore when she was 18 and he was 65") to attend his plays in New York.
 
Wide Range of Name Dropping
 For Mr. Myers, the sport of name dropping is not confined to the deceased, their relatives -- Tyrone Powers's mother was one of his students -- or the once marginally famous, those who had their 15 minutes, like Sukreet Gable. "She did her nightclub act at the Trocadero in the Village, where my plays have been produced," he added.
Sonia Moore, Eric Bentley and Marie Piscator -- influential theater figures, all -- provide prominent personal and professional reference points throughout Mr. Meyers's conversations.
"These are the people who were there, who've done it all," he said. "They are theater history."
Once an actor, a casting director, a theater director and a museum consultant, Mr. Myers has written about and conducts workshops in drama as therapy for students, the elderly, the handicapped and people with AIDS.
"Healing theater" sums up his credo and RWM Playwrights Lab is the name of his organization. "To be good at what you do, you have to do all of it," Mr. Myers said.
"But if I didn't have a regular job, you'd have to scrape me off the walls. It forces you to keep a schedule. To make theater your whole life can send you right around the bend."
When asked what he will do next, Mr. Myers said, "I'm going to study psychotherapy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After writing more than 40 plays, many created in East Quogue, Larry Myers has two now running in New York. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SAL MINEO FAN CLUB COMES TO ORDER, THE (PLAY); GENE TIERNEY MOVED NEXT DOOR (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (60%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (60%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER; THEATER DRAMA LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); POETRY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (64%); 

PERSON: MYERS, LARRY LARRY MYERS (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



583 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Ground Plan for a League of Their Own

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: VALHALLA

 BODY:
FIVE years after retiring from the major leagues, Lee Mazzilli is returning to the ball field. But in this incarnation the 39-year-old former outfielder -- Maz to his fans -- is coming back as a minor league baseball commissioner.
Standing by the dugout on the Westchester Community College diamond here, Commissioner Mazzilli -- a former player for the Mets and the Yankees -- talked last week about his plans to develop four minor league teams in the county: the White Plains Devils, the Yonkers Blue Bandits, the Mount Vernon Hoot Owls and the New Rochelle Bears. 
 Stepped up plans in recent weeks for the new Northeast League's opening day on July 1 reflect a growing interest in minor league baseball nationwide, with statistics showing that game attendance in the United States almost doubled in the last 10 years to more than 30 million in 1993. Westchester, though, has not had a minor league team since the Peekskill Highlanders stopped playing more than 45 years ago.
 
Seating for 3,500 Spectators
 "Minor league baseball today is not just for die-hard baseball fans," said Larry Wiederecht, a spokesman for the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues in St. Petersburg, Fla. "It's as much about the pie-eating contests and food and souvenirs as it is the ball game itself." He added that the recent proliferation of new minor league teams "amounted to a boon."
"The minor leagues don't have the glamour of the Yankees," he said, "but there are other things that make them appealing. And they're good business."
Mr. Mazzilli -- who is now also a restaurateur, mortgage banker and part-time sportscaster -- said he wanted to bring "big-time baseball back to a small town so everyone in the family can enjoy it."
The new league will have a $600,000 operating budget this summer and will spend an additional $215,000 to install lighting for 45 night games, said Jay Acton, Mr. Mazzilli's partner in the venture. Also, the county plans to rent grandstands for the community college ball field to seat 3,500 spectators.
Mr. Mazzilli said the Northeast League could become a training ground for rookies, although most of the players will be undrafted and unsigned local college varsity team members. Mr. Weiderecht called them "players who are not going anywhere unless they are spotted by a scout." The league expects to pay rookies a base salary and offer increments for performance and experience, Mr. Acton said, adding that the staff of team managers will include George (Boomer) Scott, who played for the Boston Red Sox in the late 1970's.
Mr. Acton -- a former owner of other minor league teams in the Middle West and the South and author of "Green Diamonds: The Profits and Pleasures of Investing in Minor League Baseball" -- said that the 1994 Northeast League season would include fireworks, appearances by the Blues Brothers and surprise guest stars. The emphasis, he said, will be on a "family night out with something to appeal to everyone," with general admission tickets costing $4, $2 for children and the elderly.
Mr. Acton estimated that the four teams and ballpark operations would generate about 10 full-time year-round jobs, another 200 jobs in the summer and $1 million in gross revenues.
But not everyone is ready to cry, "Play Ball!" For one, Greenburgh's Town Supervisor, Paul J. Feiner, has opposed the plan to use Westchester Community College for the games and said last week that Mr. Acton and Mr. Mazzilli's field of dreams had become his town's "potential nightmare."
Mr. Feiner added: "Our concerns are the traffic jams, the noise and the lights blaring in people's homes. What about the impact on the neighborhood?" Part of the college campus borders the town of Greenburgh.
 
Agreement With the County
 Officially, though, the college is on county property, not in Greenburgh, said Mr. Acton, who is a lawyer. He said that the Northeast League worked out its agreement to use the college ball field with County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke and that Mr. Feiner did not have a say in the matter.
Also, in response to Mr. Feiner's concerns, the league placed an advertisement in the sports section of Gannett Suburban Newspapers last weekend. "What's Next, Greenburgh?" it read. "Ban motherhood and apple pie?"
But Mr. Feiner and members of the Mayfair-Knollwood Civic Association, which represents homeowners near the college, said their town had become the site of too many county ventures.
"It's not a matter of whether we love baseball, it's just that we've had our share of public projects," said George A. Robinson, a member of the civic group. "We have a county homeless shelter here. We have a county garage. And now they are talking about baseball games a stone's throw from people's homes. It's not fair."
Another neighbor, Alvin E. Anthony, 81, who is a former member of the Jackson, Tenn., All Stars, a minor league team that barnstormed through the South in the late 1920's and early 1930's, said that despite his love of the game, he opposed its being played next door to his home.
Minor league baseball's growing popularity with the public notwithstanding, other teams have met similar opposition from unhappy neighbors. In Augusta, N.J., Tony Torre, vice president and general manager of the New Jersey Cardinals, said his team spent $80,000 in legal fees from 1988 to 1992 to fight "local residents who tried to run us out of town," when the team was based in Hamilton, Ontario, and called the Redbirds.
By contrast last year, the team moved to Glens Falls, N.Y., where neighbors watched the games from their front yards "and seemed very happy to have us there," Mr. Torre said. The team, which is the farm team for the St. Louis Cardinals, moved to the rural area of New Jersey this year.
But Mr. Weiderecht called the situation in Westchester "unique" because most minor league teams play either at existing ball parks or they move to newer quarters away from residences.
 
13 Legislators Opposed
 Eventually, the Northeast League may move to Memorial Stadium in Mount Vernon. The county last year agreed to purchase the rundown, 64-year-old stadium and adjoining six-acre field and plans to spend $6 million refurbishing the site. When completed in 1996, it is expected to be the largest and most modern sports stadium in the county.
But Thomas J. Abinanti, a county legislator representing parts of Greenburgh and all of Ardsley, Dobbs Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson, Irvington and Tarrytown, said: "Let's put a push on Memorial Field now. We have committed ourselves to renovating it, and we should get going."
Mr. Abinanti is one of 13 county legislators who have opposed the league's use of the community college field on the ground that it would disrupt the neighborhood.
But Philippe M. Gille, senior executive assistant to Mr. O'Rourke, said it would take at least a year, and probably two years, to get the Mount Vernon site ready. He said it was likely that the 10-member Westchester Community College board of trustees would approve at least temporary use of its ball field until the league could move to the renovated stadium.
Also, the college recently voted to allow the New York Fever of the United States Interregional Soccer League to play eight games on another of its fields from May through July. Those games will begin at 5 P.M. and are expected to draw 1,500 to 3,000 spectators, said William Manning, a spokesman for the league.
 
10 P.M. Curfew Promised
 Mr. Gille said: "We don't want to lose the baseball league to Connecticut or someplace else. Both leagues are good recreation and good for the local economy. We desperately want to keep them in Westchester."
The college trustees scheduled a public hearing on the matter last Thursday. Meanwhile, to minimize the impact on the neighborhood, the baseball league has agreed to maintain a 10 P.M. curfew on games, hire 20 security guards for the grounds and reimburse the county for any extra police expenses.
Also, no alcoholic beverages would be sold after the seventh inning, and the stadium lights would be only 70 feet tall, rather than the usual 90 feet, and would have reflectors to reduce the glare. If the league moves to Mount Vernon it will leave the lights and other improvements at the county-owned college.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Surveying a field of dreams for the Northeast League at Westchester Community College are Lee Mazzilli and Jay Acton. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST LEAGUE MOUNT VERNON NEON (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK METS (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST LEAGUE NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK METS (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (94%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SPORTS FANS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); COUNTIES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); BUDGETS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; MAZZILLI, LEE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



584 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Radically Useless Building

BYLINE: By Thomas Hine; Thomas Hine, the author of "Populuxe" and a forthcoming history of packaging, "The Total Package," is the architecture critic of The Philadelphia Inquirer.

 BODY:

ARCHITECTURE AND DISJUNCTION
By Bernard Tschumi.
Illustrated. 268 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press. $27.50. 
THE function of a work of architecture is a product of the builders' and designers' hopes and intentions. The use of a work of architecture emerges only over time, and it is a far more ambiguous and unpredictable thing.
Typically, an architect works for a client who has an immediate need. But buildings and public spaces usually outlast the demands that brought them into being, and wholly new social, political, economic and artistic phenomena arise during their lifetimes. Thus architects inevitably help shape places, experiences and activities they cannot begin to imagine.
To anyone who studies history, this is more or less self-evident, though it plays only a small role in how architects think about what they do. Moreover, even if you are aware of the indeterminacy of use and meaning over time, this insight provides little help in making the many decisions that constitute a design. Should architects return to a Beaux-Arts focus on composition, with function assuming a secondary role? Should buildings be universally adaptable? Disposable? Recyclable?
In "Architecture and Disjunction," a collection of essays, Bernard Tschumi, the dean of the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University, rejects these options. For him, the short half-life of function and the inability to know beforehand how people will use a building or place are chief examples of "disorder, collisions and unpredictabilities entering the field of architecture." He says that while these challenges seem to make the rule-ridden practice of architecture impossible, they paradoxically liberate architects and their art.
"So architecture seems to survive only when it saves its nature by negating the form that society expects of it," he writes. "I would therefore suggest that there has never been any reason to doubt the necessity of architecture, for the necessity of architecture is its non-necessity. It is useless, but radically so. Its radicalism constitutes its very strength in a society where profit is prevalent" (his italics).
Later in the same paragraph, he compares the uselessness of architecture to that of fireworks, but through most of the book his comparisons are of architecture to mathematics and philosophy, systems of knowledge in which immediate usefulness diminishes as their exploration becomes more sophisticated.
Unlike many other theorists of a deconstructionist bent, however, Mr. Tschumi does not derive his arguments from analogies with linguistics or philosophy, but rather from architecture itself. And by the very low standards of contemporary architectural theorizing, his writing is relatively clear, even lively.
But architecture, as Mr. Tschumi pursues it, offers neither the thrills of a good fireworks display nor the prospect of fundamental discoveries like those that are possible in mathematics or philosophy. Rather, it is a wholly arbitrary assertion by the architect. Mr. Tschumi points to his own major work, the Parc de la Villette in Paris. This large city park is not a leafy retreat but an intellectual invention, best known for the way in which a number of small buildings or folies designed by Mr. Tschumi are laid out in a grid. This grid, Mr. Tschumi tells us, could well be some other device that would serve "as a distancing agent between the built realm and the user's demands."
One possible response to the indeterminacy of function would be to explore and exploit the possibilities of those things that will last at least as long as the work. Among these are the sun, the climate and other natural qualities of place, and the materials of which the building is made.
Mr. Tschumi's art seems to exist in a hermetic world that lacks the primitive, truly architectural pleasures created by light and shadow, color and texture, expansiveness and enclosure, rhythm and incident. His architecture is an occasion for explication, not joy. Mr. Tschumi repeatedly describes architecture as sensual and pleasurable, but the eroticism he finds in architecture is really an obsession with rules and the architect's desire both to impose and to transgress them. Design is bondage; learn to enjoy it.
It would be easier to enjoy "Architecture and Disjunction" as a series of brilliant provocations if it weren't for something said in the introduction. While the book consists of essays written between 1975 and 1991, Mr. Tschumi writes, they "were conceived as successive chapters of a book that could -- somewhat in the manner of Le Corbusier's 'Vers une Architecture' and Robert Venturi's 'Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture' -- provide a description of our architectural condition at the end of the 20th century."
It is horrifying to imagine that architects might use this book, as they did its illustrious predecessors, to derive yet another new book of rules. Untold mischief would follow. Exciting as many of Mr. Tschumi's ideas are, nobody should try them at home.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ARCHITECTURE AND DISJUNCTION (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); HISTORY (69%); LINGUISTICS (68%); MATHEMATICS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: HINE, THOMAS; TSCHUMI, BERNARD BERNARD TSCHUMI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



585 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 3059 words

HEADLINE: Can They Go Home Again?

BYLINE: By Brigitte Berger; Brigitte Berger is a professor of sociology at Boston University. She is the author of "The War Over the Family: Capturing the Middle Ground."

 BODY:

THE HOMELESS
By Christopher Jencks.
161 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $17.95. 
HOMELESSNESS, once held to be the personal misfortune of a small number of men down on their luck, has exploded into one of America's most politically sensitive and divisive social issues. In the short span of two decades, the presence of disheveled and often desperate people on the streets of the nation's cities has become too painfully visible to be ignored. Yet the phenomenal increase in their numbers appears to defy all public measures that have been undertaken to stem the tide.
As can be expected with a problem of this magnitude, homelessness evokes strong responses from both liberals and conservatives, with each camp determined to heap blame on the other. The liberals believe the homeless are essentially victims of basic flaws in our socioeconomic system, and they call for more and better social programs. The conservatives argue that existing Federal programs are not just ineffective but positively harmful, hurting the very people they are intended to help. Add to this muddle the groups of crusading advocates given to bandying about outlandish claims concerning the number of homeless people -- faithfully reported by the news media -- and the result is one sorry mess.
In his new book, "The Homeless," Christopher Jencks, the John D. MacArthur Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University, sets out to bring clarity and sense to the public debate. He systematically reviews and evaluates a large body of research literature on the homeless and, in less than 200 pages of tersely written and tightly argued text, he deftly leads the reader through a maze of assertions. Mr. Jencks has a special knack for enabling readers to follow each step of his intricate argument without overwhelming them with the pyrotechnics of complicated analyses of data (which, for the most part, are relegated to two lengthy appendixes). He writes lucidly and compellingly and, what is more, he does not pull his punches.
After having read the book and reviewed its documentation, this reviewer is impressed not only with Mr. Jencks's ability to stay clear of much of the contentiousness surrounding the homeless, but with the basic soundness of his arguments as well. "The Homeless" is undoubtedly a major achievement. Still, it is safe to predict that vociferous opposition to Mr. Jencks's exposition of some complicated truths will not be long in coming.
THE subjects of Mr. Jencks's book are the "visible homeless," that is, "everyone who slept in a public place or a shelter during a given week." Using data put together from several sources, he estimates their number at between 300,000 and 400,000 as of March 1987 (the date of the most comprehensive survey he cites). If pushed, he is willing to raise the number to 500,000, in either case a far cry from earlier claims of more than three million. This well-reasoned estimate, incidentally, should cause considerable discomfort to the drafters of a recent much-publicized Clinton Administration report claiming to document the existence of seven million homeless Americans waiting for Governmental action. I think one can readily say that after the dust has settled, startling figures of this sort will come to seem little more than particularly telling testimony to the continuing utility of mythical numbers.
Mr. Jencks calculates a four-fold increase in the homeless population between 1980 and 1988, a time when municipalities, states and Federal agencies strenuously sought to stop the spread. In trying to explain this startling rise, he examines possible linkages between homelessness and a vast range of factors: the deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill during the 1970's, the crack epidemic of the 1980's, changes in the housing market, budget cuts, rent control, joblessness and marriage. He comes up with some challenging insights and, finally, with a complex mixture of causes for homelessness that suggest no easy solutions. His findings defy not only the wisdom of the average sidewalk sociologist, but also the arguments of many established researchers.
Mr. Jencks discovers, for example, that a sizable portion of the homeless -- more than 25 percent -- suffer from some form of mental illness. But in contrast to those who condemn the emptying of mental hospitals in the 1970's, he points out that only a "small minority" of the mentally ill who were released ended up on the streets.
Also, contrary to many advocates for the homeless, he does not believe the experience of homelessness caused the high incidence of mental illness. And rather than criticize either the deinstitutionalization campaign of civil libertarians or the fiscal restraint of conservatives, Mr. Jencks stakes out ground in between. He says: "Almost everyone agrees that what happened to the mentally ill after 1975 was a disaster. Both liberals and conservatives blame this disaster on their opponents, and both are half right. It was the insidious combination of liberal policies aimed at increasing personal liberty with conservative policies aimed at reducing government spending that led to catastrophe.
"It is important to remember, however," he goes on to argue in the manner typical of him, "that while liberals succeeded in curtailing involuntary commitment and deinstitutionalizing most of the mentally ill, their conservative opponents failed to cut government spending on mental patients."
Mr. Jencks places much of the responsibility for the scandalous neglect of the mentally ill who are homeless on the callous refusal of state legislators to appropriate money saved from the closing of hospitals to outpatient programs. While families took back most of the deinstitutionalized patients into their homes, a small minority of the mentally ill ultimately ended up on the streets.
In looking at the linkage between homelessness and drugs, Mr. Jencks reaches similar conclusions. It is the overuse of alcohol and drugs that causes homelessness, not the other way around: "Heavy use makes marginally employable adults even less employable, eats up money that would otherwise be available to pay rent and makes their friends and relatives less willing to shelter them." He estimates that about a third of single adults in shelters are regular users of crack. Yet at the same time Mr. Jencks emphasizes that not all users of alcohol and drugs end up on the streets.
URNING to conservative contentions that by giving the homeless free shelter we are, in effect, helping them buy more alcohol or drugs, Mr. Jencks acknowledges that such claims surely contain a grain of truth. But he goes on to say that "even when shelters are free, fewer than half of all homeless single adults use them on an average night. This makes it hard to believe that eliminating shelters would persuade many homeless drug or alcohol users to spend their limited funds on renting a room."
And again, in the typical Jencksean mode, he scrutinizes liberal calls for more services to stem drug addiction. Examining the evidence on how well such programs work, he concludes that "experience does suggest that while some services work some of the time, many are ineffective. When advocates fail to mention this risk, taxpayers should check their bank balance."
Throughout the book Mr. Jencks voices his distrust of the effectiveness of a plethora of social programs. The following statement is representative: "Unfortunately, programs that try to improve people's skills, modify their chemical intake or deal with their psychoses have rather mixed records of success. Changing people is hard, and doing it on a large scale is harder." (He does go on to say, however, that "the problem with services for the poor is not, as some cynics claim, that they never help. The problem is that we seldom know which ones are helping.")
The question of whether changes in the housing market have been responsible for the spread of homelessness is one that has been enormously politicized in recent years. True to form, Mr. Jencks takes both political camps to task, and in the course of his investigation he deflates the claims of a number of highly regarded policy studies as well. He first disputes the popular tendency to identify the fate of neighborhoods with the fate of individuals: "Readers who have watched inner-city neighborhoods decay over the past generation may find it hard to believe that poor tenants' housing really improved during this period. . . . Boarded-up buildings and weed-filled lots show that fewer people want to live in a neighborhood, not that the people who used to live there now live in worse housing."
He then argues that "vacancy rates in low-rent private housing have been quite stable"; that there exists a "weak connection between rent burdens and homelessness," and that, contrary to cherished liberal beliefs, subsidies for low-income housing steadily grew under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush (as a result of liberal Congressional politics). Yet this growth in subsidies and the continued availability of improved low-rent housing did little to stop the spread of homelessness.
Like most housing economists, Mr. Jencks hesitates to fault private entrepreneurs for any lack of cheap housing. It is more appropriate, he believes, to look at the effects of changes in building code requirements that raised housing standards.
In a particularly blunt subchapter, "Partisan Liberalism Run Amok," Mr. Jencks takes on the findings of Mayor David Dinkins's 1991 commission on homelessness in New York City. That commission maintained that the Federal Government had historically been the provider of low-cost housing, but that it had abandoned the field. The result, the commission said, was a dire lack of affordable housing in the city.
Mr. Jencks counters: "Even if we set aside the canard about cutbacks in low-income housing programs, the claim that the Federal Government was historically the main provider of low-cost housing is breathtakingly wrong. Private landlords have built and operated most of New York's cheap housing ever since the Dutch bought out the Indians. What changed during the 1970's and 1980's, as anyone could see driving through the South Bronx or Brooklyn, was not that the Federal Government abandoned the low-cost housing business but that private landlords did so."
And he does not hesitate to question the legitimacy of the work of the Dinkins commission (and by implication the work of commissions in general): "The repetition of liberal fairy tales in a report signed by eminent businessmen does raise intriguing questions. Did the members of the commission read the report? Did they believe what it said? Did they ask anyone in their employ to check it for accuracy? If they did not, was this because they did not think accuracy mattered?"
After examining the issue of cheap housing from all sides, Mr. Jencks is ready to deplore the disappearance of skid row, with its single-room-occupancy and cubicle hotels. (Cubicle hotels offered rooms without windows.) An earlier generation of "helping professionals" fought passionately against these types of residences. But Mr. Jencks wants to revive skid rows so that the poor can find rooms they can afford. He argues that while "many Americans will balk at bringing back the cubicle hotels, on the grounds that no affluent society should require anyone to live in such conditions . . . this does not mean we should accept cubicle hotels as the last word in low-income housing. It just means we should proceed incrementally."
Although many of Mr. Jencks's findings and proposals fly directly in the face of the received wisdom, his data on the connection between homelessness and marriage confirm what most ordinary Americans have long known, namely that "married couples hardly ever become homeless as long as they stick together," even if they are poor. In general he finds little evidence for the argument that the new homelessness is a consequence of "family breakdown." Once again, he points out that most people from broken homes do not become homeless. Yet his data do suggest that the decline in marriage was the major reason for bringing more single women and their children into shelters: "It was the fact that unskilled women not only married less but continued to have children that pushed more of them into the streets."
As the reader can see, Mr. Jencks's research shows that homelessness is a complicated, multifaceted problem in which many factors are tragically intertwined. "Those who end up on the street," he writes, "have typically had all the disadvantages. Most started life in families with a multitude of problems; indeed, many came from families so troubled that they were placed in foster care. Many had serious health and learning problems. A large number grew up in dreadful neighborhoods and attended mediocre schools. After that, most had more than their share of bad luck in the labor market, the marriage market or both. It is the cumulative effect of all these disadvantages . . . that has left them on the streets."
In a brief final chapter Mr. Jencks suggests a number of stopgap measures, or "partial solutions," to deal with homelessness. Some, especially his ideas for stricter supervision of the mentally ill and even the return of the much-maligned cubicle hotels, make eminent sense and may find a hearing even in today's divisive political climate. Others, like his suggestion for rent and food vouchers in social service programs, are likely to be well received in conservative circles but rejected by liberals. And vice versa: Mr. Jencks's firm insistence on the role of the Government, on using its financial resources to find solutions to many of the problems of the homeless, may win liberal applause but conservative criticism. To this reviewer, the modesty of Mr. Jencks's expectations is refreshing in an era of exaggerated claims.
IF there is a serious flaw with either Mr. Jencks's research or the proposals flowing from it, it must be found in his total neglect of the role of "mediating structures," that is to say, those social institutions that connect the individual to the larger society: the neighborhoods, the churches and other voluntary groupings that have traditionally been the mainspring of America's strength. Any policy approach that fails to include the vital contributions of these social, rather than governmental, resources is, I fear, condemned to render only partial solutions to the heart-wrenching problem before us. It is odd that a sociologist of Mr. Jencks's stature would ignore precisely those mediating structures that alone have the capacity to provide lonely individuals with a stable anchorage, and to give purpose and meaning to their lives.
Despite this shortcoming, "The Homeless," with its challenging findings, is a bold book. It demonstrates as conclusively as any study can that neither social policy nor society -- and least of all the homeless themselves -- will be served well by emotive arguments designed to buttress purely political agendas. Mr. Jencks, with his masterly exposition of complex data and his discriminating, well-balanced assessments, goes a long way toward restoring confidence in the capacity of the social sciences to transcend politically loaded policy analysis. He also goes a long way toward restoring a modicum of realism to public debate.
 
 
 
NOT FOR KNEE JERKERS
 Christopher Jencks is a risk taker. His new book, "The Homeless," asserts that it is the combination of personal vulnerability and political indifference that has left people on the streets. Yet he also suggests that the homeless are not merely passive victims of circumstance but people who make choices like everyone else, however limited those choices might be. Such a claim could, assuredly, jeopardize Mr. Jencks's liberal credentials, but the author is more concerned with the issues than with how his critics perceive him.
"It's fair to say there have been mixed reactions to a lot of my arguments," he said in a recent telephone interview from his home in Evanston, Ill., where both he and his wife teach at Northwestern University, "and the book isn't out yet." He believes that a stereotypical liberal position would probably be that he is saying the wrong thing. But most liberals, he is convinced, are not stereotypical. "There is a certain kind of knee-jerk liberal and conservative position on almost every subject," he explained, "but the number of people who actually take these positions is relatively modest; most people pause to think about things." This might not have been as true 10 years ago, he thinks, "because when a problem is new, people sort of reach into their knapsack of political ideology first. Then, after a while, the more they learn and the more they watch, the more nuanced their perception of the problem gets. I mean, we do learn something from experience, don't we?"
Mr. Jencks, who is 57, says he has not grown more conservative with age. "I wouldn't say that my views have changed very much over the years," he reflected. "I mean, they have always been a mixed bag. I'm conservative about some things and quite leftish about others. I remember writing once that I thought of myself as a cultural conservative and an economic and political incrementalist, or something like that, anyway. These things," he added, "have something to do with one's background."
Mr. Jencks recalls his involvement with the liberal Institute for Policy Studies in Washington in the early 1960's: "It's hard for us to remember how dissatisfied liberals were with Kennedy in those days. They groused just the way they grouse now with Clinton. It was a similar situation, with Kennedy as a sort of middle-of-the road Democrat and the liberal wing of the party constantly complaining. These were people deeply committed to arms control, and Kennedy was building up the military." By the time Mr. Jencks left Washington to lecture at Harvard in 1967, the Vietnam War had overwhelmed everything else. "I felt like the political ambiance in Washington had closed in; it was pretty grim," he said. "Lots of people with identical backgrounds going on to be bohemians." He chuckled. "So you see, background isn't destiny." LYNN KARPEN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Jencks. (KEN LEVINSON)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOMELESS, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; HOMELESS PERSONS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HOMELESSNESS (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); 

PERSON: BERGER, BRIGITTE; JENCKS, CHRISTOPHER (PROF) CHRISTOPHER JENCKS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



586 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 4050 words

HEADLINE: Paths to Scandal: A special report.;
Stories of Courage and Sacrifice, Corruption and Betrayal in Blue

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD with JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Like all police officers who ride a patrol car together, they would do anything for each other. Last April, Jorge Alvarez proved that. He and Randolf Vazquez, partners on the midnight shift at the crime-infested 30th Precinct in northwest Harlem, came upon a drug-crazed individual firing at another man on West 151st Street. They scrambled out of their patrol car, as other drug dealers in the neighborhood joined the battle.
"It was like Vietnam out there," said a police officer who subsequently arrived on the scene. "Bullets were whizzing by your head." 
 Several shots from Mr. Alvarez and Mr. Vazquez felled the first gunman. As Mr. Vazquez began to reload, the gunman, despite severe wounds, staggered to his knees and aimed at Mr. Vazquez. Without hesitation, Mr. Alvarez dived in front of his partner and fired at the man, killing him and saving Mr. Vazquez's life.
Now the pair's close bond has unraveled with Mr. Alvarez's decision to turn his partner in as part of the corruption scandal engulfing the 30th Precinct. The path these partners took constitutes perhaps the most peculiar of the stories among those charged in the biggest roundup of New York City police officers on corruption charges in nearly a decade. But their story, and that of others arrested in the case, may provide a window into what drives officers to step over the line into lawlessness.
The charges against the officers in the 30th Precinct outlined shocking effrontery. They were accused of forcing drug dealers to pay them protection money for not arresting them or of stealing drugs and cash from dealers or of selling pilfered drugs themselves. They would stop cars of dealers and strip them of drugs and money, the authorities said; they would pat down dealers looking for "felony keys" of places likely to harbor lucrative stashes and then rob the places. A bodega within the precinct's borders is said to have served as a veritable bribe bank where dealers left weekly deposits with the owner and the officers showed up to make withdrawals.
The investigation was begun two years ago by the Manhattan District Attorney's office, and was later joined by investigators for the United States Attorney's Office and the Mollen Commission, appointed by Mayor David N. Dinkins in 1992 to investigate allegations of corruption. A drug dealer informant and the bodega owner helped the case, as did three officers who cooperated with investigators by wearing wires: George Nova, Alberto Vargas and Mr. Alvarez. These three have pled guilty. Mr. Alvarez faces seven years in prison; Mr. Vazquez faces a possible life sentence. Like Mr. Alvarez, Mr. Vargas gave up his partner on day patrol, Ruben Garza, and Mr. Nova gave up his partner in anticrime, John Arena.
Investigators themselves have not assembled a full picture of the 12 officers. They remain uncertain of just when and why any went "bad." They do believe that the officers did not work together as part of any crime club but in small clusters of two or three. Some were believed to be thieves of convenience: money was available and they took it. Others were apparently looking for money.
One of the oddities is that a number of the arrested officers were among the spangled names of the precinct, honored men looked up to as role models by younger recruits. Stephen Setteducatto was one of the precinct's arrest leaders, who, one officer said, "could find a collar in a phone booth." George Nova, Josue Rivera and John Arena had been elevated to the precinct's elite anticrime unit because of their performance. By that time, investigators say, they were already partaking of illicit sweets of the street.
 
Best Cover: Do Your Job Well
 It is also pointed out with some sarcasm by 30th Precinct officers that the best cover for a corrupt cop is, on the surface, to do your job extremely well. No one suspects a hero of being a crook.
All of the arrested officers come from humble, working-class backgrounds. Michael Walsh, noteworthy among the dozen for being accused of the single biggest heist, $100,000 in cash, was the son of a dairy worker. Russell Litwenak Jr. was the son of a factory worker. Alberto Vargas was the son of a bartender. John Arena was raised by a single mother. Josue Rivera's parents divorced and he was brought up in the Bronx by his uncle and aunt, Julio and Elizabeth Jogler. His uncle is a police officer in the 46th Precinct. "Whatever I did, he wanted to imitate," a tearful Mr. Jogler said. "I was the one who talked him into becoming a cop."
Nine of the officers are in their 30's. Two -- Mr. Litwenak and Mr. Setteducatto -- are in their 40's and are 20-year veterans. Mr. Setteducatto is something of the odd man out. He was not accused of stealing drugs or taking bribes. Instead, his arrest revolves around one incident during which he is said to have stolen cash from a safe that had been seized and brought to the precinct. He was a popular figure, in charge of the Precinct Club that planned recreational and social activities. Two months ago, he had left the precinct in preparation for retirement. He was going to move to North Carolina.
"I've rescued people from burning buildings," Mr. Setteducatto said yesterday in an interview, refusing to discuss charges against him. "I helped people in my community and the communities I've worked."
Officers in the 30th Precinct speak of the "erosion theory," about the wear on the mind of years of seeing towering stacks of money confiscated, years of seeing impudent teen-age dealers who drive flashy cars and wear expensive jewelry and who the system never seems to keep behind bars. They talk about how many years you can watch $1 million in confiscated cash come into the 30th Precinct and not want just a little for yourself.
"Cops are like the beach," one sergeant said. "They get eroded by the waves of crime and inducements out there. We all ask ourselves: How long can you put someone in a Class A precinct like this where there is so much crime and temptation before someone wears away and gives in to it? Fortunately, most cops don't wear down. Some cops go 35 years and don't erode. But there are also cops who erode in two years."
Financial pressures undoubtedly hammered away at many.
In 1990, Mr. Rivera bought a house in New City, N.Y., that left him with a $183,000 mortgage and a $2,399 monthly payment. In 1990, the Internal Revenue Service put a lien on his income for $5,447 in owed taxes. At one point, his wife, Jana, did day-care for children in the neighborhood to bring in extra money. They drove a 1982 Datsun with 200,000 miles on it. In February of 1993, their mortgage holder sued them for nonpayment. Last summer, their house was foreclosed on and they moved to an apartment in New Rochelle. Soon afterward, they separated. Around the same time, the state put a lien on Mr. Rivera for $4,053 in taxes.
Interviews with a wide array of police officers, supervisors, acquaintances, relatives and investigators, virtually all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, gave the broad contours of the lives of some of the arrested officers, a partial understanding of the road to the dark side of the law.
 
Partners
Under Fire, Under Pressure
 Jorge Alvarez and Randolf Vazquez came from similar New York origins. Mr. Alvarez, 33, was reared in the Bronx. His father was a building superintendent. After Mr. Alvarez graduated from high school, he worked for United Parcel Service and later as a banquet waiter at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. In 1982, he joined the police force.
Mr. Vazquez, 37, grew up in Queens. His father was a silk-screen maker, his mother a sales clerk. He apparently considered following in the path of his father, going to the High School of Art and Design, but he dropped out. He held several jobs: as a security guard, a stock clerk at department stores and a bartender and host at Adam's Apple, a Manhattan singles bar. In 1985, he joined the police force and was assigned to Central Park, where, as one officer put it, "You look at squirrels, trees and girls in bikinis. No way you become corrupt."
 
A Taste of Illicit Fruit
 In the summer of 1991, when the 30th Precinct was in need of officers, Mr. Vazquez was sent there, although it was not his choice, and his life began to unravel. He was paired with Mr. Alvarez. Fellow officers suspect Mr. Alvarez of showing Mr. Vazquez the sweet rewards of corruption. Investigators believe that, like a number of others on the midnight shift, Mr. Alvarez had succumbed to stealing money from drug dealers and selling stolen drugs as early as four or five years ago.
According to the complaint against Mr. Vazquez, he fell into similar crimes. In one instance, the complaint says, Mr. Vazquez and Mr. Nova recovered four ounces of cocaine thrown from a car window. They are said to have sold the drugs to a dealer named Ralphie, and split the proceeds. On another occasion, he and Mr. Nova were chasing two suspects. One dropped some cocaine. The complaint says the officer halted their pursuit, grabbed the drugs and sold them to a dealer named Macuri.
Last July, investigators from the Manhattan District Attorney's office videotaped Mr. Alvarez during a sting operation. He stopped a car and discovered bundles of money. Much of it he stuffed into his pants. Investigators say that the videotape shows him sitting in the driver's seat, leaning over to reach the glove compartment. A packet of cash fell down his pants leg onto the car floor. He scooped it up and shoved it into his sock.
In September, Mr. Alvarez was brought in by investigators and agreed to cooperate in exchange for eventually pleading guilty to third-degree grand larceny.
Mr. Vazquez lives with his family in New Windsor, N.Y. On Friday, a moving van was parked outside the two-story house. When he came to the door, Mr. Vazquez said he had nothing to say.
Mr. Alvarez lives in Port Jervis, N.Y., with his wife and three children. He fishes and raises terriers. His parents live in a building on West 70th Street, and they also own a house next door to Mr. Alvarez in Port Jervis. Six months ago, right after Mr. Alvarez agreed to cooperate with investigators, both houses were put up for sale. They are still on the market.
The heroism demonstrated by Mr. Alvarez haunts the minds of officers who knew the pair. "You have to look back and wonder whether Jorge did Vazquez a favor or not," said a supervisor in the 30th Precinct. "Maybe the best thing would have been if Vazquez had died right there. He would have been a hero. His family would have received his full pension. Now, his family is disgraced. The man is looking at life in prison. Who would want to be him?"
 
'He's Been an Example'
An Officer With 'the Knack'
 Since he was little, George Nova wanted to be a policeman.
He was born in Washington Heights 27 years ago, and grew up on West 157th Street. His father was a maintenance man. He had two brothers and a sister, as well as a half brother, Roberto Gonzalez, who was convicted in 1985 of selling drugs.
After working briefly for two drug stores, Mr. Nova applied to the department in 1986. The next year, he was assigned to the 30th Precinct. "He's been an example for everyone on the street," said Jose Torres, 20. "He used to protect everyone on the street."
Supervisors and fellow officers envied him. He received 17 citations for his work, and was part of the anticrime unit. (He had just one command discipline, given for a minor infraction, lending his shield to a friend to use with a Halloween costume.)
He was known as an aggressive cop with an uncanny sense of crime. He made many drug and gun arrests. "He brought in some tremendous seizures of money, sometimes up around $100,000," a supervisor said. He received a commendation once for recovering drugs and nearly $43,000 in cash from a car he stopped for running a red light. "He was a great cop," said a supervisor at the precinct. "It's mind-boggling how someone could be so good. He just had the knack."
 
The First Under Scrutiny
 At the same time, investigators say he was the most crooked of the lot. And thus it is small wonder that he was the first to come under suspicion.
Investigators found that there were more than two dozen civilian complaints against Mr. Nova, most of which had to do with drug and corruption allegations. Internal Affairs investigators in the Police Department were said to be aware of complaints against him going back to 1988. An informer in the neighborhood told the Mollen Commission that Mr. Nova was shaking down dealers for protection money. And so, more than two years ago, he was put under surveillance.
Authorities said Mr. Nova accepted weekly bribes from drug dealers, which he picked up at the bodega bank. The money was left in plain brown paper bags, to seem as if he was leaving with a container of coffee. Authorities said he admitted collecting as much as $2,000 a week. Furthermore, they said, he confessed to often stealing money and drugs from suspects by breaking into drug dens, as well as selling drugs through dealers.
Investigators called their inquiry "Operation Domino," for they felt that if one officer fell, others would tumble. Around September, Mr. Nova was brought in by Mollen Commission investigators and, when confronted with the case against him, agreed to cooperate. He was the first domino.
John Arena, Mr. Nova's partner, who was accused of stealing drugs and money with Mr. Nova, apparently trusted him to the end. But he came ever so close to unmasking Mr. Nova. He told him in late September 1993, at which point Mr. Nova was wearing a wire, that he had purchased a wire-detecting device from a spy store and had used it at the precinct's annual barbecue, according to investigators. Mr. Arena said he detected no wires. He offered to lend the device to Mr. Nova to insure he didn't get caught. Mr. Nova gave it to investigators, along with other evidence on his partner.
 
'Abusador'
A 'Goose' With A Mean Streak
 Around the precinct house, they called him "Goose." At first, it was "Fat Goose," but then just "Goose." Officers found him polite almost to the point of being obsequious. "He was always a 'Yes, sir,' 'No, sir,' type of person," said a supervisor who knew him for years. "He was a people's people." But out on the streets, those who crossed his path called him "Abusador" and "Thief" because they found him so violent and corrupt.
Alfonso Compres grew up within the violent borders of the drug culture. He was born outside of San Francisco de Macoris in the Dominican Republic, a city that has gained repute as a haven for drug traffickers. His family brought him and three younger siblings to New York when Mr. Compres was 12, and they settled on 162d Street, one of the grittier, drug-fueled streets of Washington Heights. His father found work as a sewing machine operator in the garment district.
After high school, Mr. Compres spent a decade working as an assembler in a factory in New Jersey and at a photo-print store. Then, in 1990, at the age of 29, he joined the police force, assigned to the 30th Precinct.
Because of Mr. Compres's seemingly gentle nature, his superiors felt he was ideal for community police work, in which an officer walks a beat alone and fraternizes with residents to deter crime. He was assigned one of the most drug-infested beats in the precinct, patrolling from 138th Street to 141th Street and from Broadway to Riverside Drive.
According to investigators, Mr. Compres quickly turned bad, insisting on protection money from drug dealers. Investigators say that an informer told them that dealers would leave $70 apiece at the bodega for Mr. Compres. He is said to have collected about $2,000 a month in illicit payoffs.
And Mr. Compres exhibited a savage violent streak. If dealers didn't pay, investigators said, he beat them. In perhaps the most striking accusation against any of the dozen, Mr. Compres is accused of coming up behind a dealer waiting for an elevator, striking him on the head and shooting him in the side, before making off with the cocaine he was carrying.
Just two months ago, Mr. Compres moved from Washington Heights and bought a home in Monroe, N.Y. Unlike the others, he appeared to have a contingency plan. The complaint against him quotes him telling an informer that, if caught, he might "spend five years in jail and would come out of jail with money." Then he would return to the Dominican Republic.
 
'Good Collar Man'
Caught Up In the Culture
 It seems as if Christopher DiLorenzo came to police work because nothing else he tried panned out.
Born in 1963, he grew up in Woodside and Astoria, Queens. His mother, a passenger service agent, raised him along with three sisters and a brother. He apparently never knew his father.
In high school, he was chronically truant, and later dropped out. For two years, he worked at a Queens deli. He was a customer service agent for T.W.A., but was laid off. He worked as a carpenter, but quit after a couple of months. After a year of shiftlessness, he was hired in 1984 as a handyman and chauffeur for Paul Mellon, the philanthropist. He left after nearly a year, and was unemployed for two years before joining the police force.
He became an officer in January 1986 and went straight to the 30th Precinct. Fellow officers described him as a "good collar man," who worked the midnight shift and would only speak if spoken to.
Fairly early in his career, investigators believe, he became entwined with drug dealers. In July 1989, the police said, he helped a drug dealer named Roy Tellier get released from a Long Island jail. Mr. Tellier grew up in Woodside with Mr. DiLorenzo and was being held on a probation violation for a drug-possession conviction. Mr. Tellier and his two brothers, Robin and Rene, are known to the police as the "Crash and Carry Gang," who rob fur salons, jewelry stores and art galleries by crashing a van through the front windows.
According to investigators, Mr. DiLorenzo for years stole money and drugs from dealers, and that for at least two years he received regular protection payments from dealers operating on West 146th Street. Two years ago, the authorities say, he stopped a Ford Taurus on Riverside Drive, searched the car and found a trap that contained a gun and cocaine. He and Mr. Vargas reportedly kept one kilogram of cocaine and, after Mr. Vargas sold the drugs to a dealer for $26,000, the two of them split the money. On another occasion, he and Mr. Vargas reportedly searched an apartment and found cocaine. The suspect offered them $1,000 not to arrest him, which they took. After pretending to flush the drugs down the toilet, Mr. DiLorenzo reportedly took the cocaine, too, and sold it to another dealer.
In mid-March, Mr. DiLorenzo chatted with Officer Vargas, then wearing a wire, about widening reports that the precinct was under investigation.
"The ship has sunk," Mr. Vargas said.
Mr. DiLorenzo seemed unfazed. "Think about it," he replied, according to investigators. "Between me and you they can get us for what, maybe one or two brutality charges, tops."
 
 
 
POLICE
Defendants in Blue: Who They Are
Jorge Alvarez, 33, born in Havana, Cuba and reared in the Bronx... graduated from Power Memorial High School in Manhattan in 1979; no college education... worked as banquet host at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel before joining the police... married to Ana L. Alvarez... pleaded guilty to charges that he stole more than $3,000 from a suspect and is cooperating with the authorities.
John Arena, 32, born in Manhattan... graduated from Park West High School in 1981; attended Manhattan Community College for three semesters... joined police in July 1983... is accused of illegal searches, stealing money and drugs from apartments, selling drugs and taking bribes from drug dealers.
Alfonso Compres, 33, born in the Dominican Republic... immigrated with family to New York when he was 12... graduated from George Washington High School in 1979... worked in a factory in Fairfield, N.J., and later in a photo store before joining the police force in April 1990... known on the street as "Abusador" and "Goose"... is accused in one case of bashing a dealer in the head, stealing a bag of cocaine and shooting him in the stomach... also accused of robbing other dealers, intimidating a witness and tampering with evidence.
Christopher DiLorenzo, 30 born in New York City and grew up in Woodside and Astoria, Queens... attended William C. Bryant High School in Long Island City, but dropped out in 1979... earned GED in 1982... held jobs as a customer service agent for TWA, a carpenter in Long Island, a handyman and chauffer for Paul Mellon... joined the force in 1986... accused of stealing money and drugs from dealers and then reselling the narcotics to other traffickers.
Ruben A. Garza, 34, grew up on Sedgwick Avenue in the Bronx... graduated from Power Memorial High School in 1978... worked as elevator operator, an ambulance driver and an electrician in Queens before joining the force in July 1983... accused of stealing drugs and reselling them.
Russell B. Litwenak, Jr., 45, reared in Paterson and Clifton, N.J... graduated from Clifton High School in 1968... worked as a hospital cook, a clerk in a camera shop and a drive-in theater ticket taker before joining the force in 1973... laid off between 1975 and 1980... reinstated in 1980 and sent to the 30th Precinct... arrested earlier this year in a sting operation for allegedly stealing money from an apartment.
George Nova, 31, grew up on West 157th Street... attended George Washington High School between 1980 and 1984 but dropped out... received GED in 1985... was a pharmacy worker and youth counselor before joining force in July 1986... received 17 citations for excellent police work but was reprimanded in March 1991 for lending his badge to a friend at a costume ball... pleaded guilty to distributing stolen narcotics and illegal searches in a deal with prosecutors... agreed to help investigators after he was taped by investigators accepting payoffs from dealers.
Josue Rivera, 32, grew up in the Bronx on Hermany Avenue... graduated from private school, All Hallows Institute in 1979... attended John Jay College of Criminal Justice but dropped out and joined the Marine Corps... discharged as corporal... worked as security guard in San Diego before joining the police in July 1987... received 14 citations, including a commendation... won spot in anticrime unit... accused of accepting payoffs from dealers in return for protection.
Stephen G. Setteducatto, 42, grew up in Brooklyn... graduated from Westinghouse High School in 1970... worked for three years as a shipping clerk before joining department... laid off during fiscal crisis. received 20 citations for excellent police work, including one commendation... accused of stealing money from a safe containing drug money that was brought to the precinct.
Alberto Vargas, 32, reared on Gleason Avenue in the Bronx... dropped out of Adele E. Stevenson High School in the 11th grade and later earned G.E.D... worked as a waiter, a stock clerk, a driver, a maintenance man, and a city jail guard... joined police in December 1984.in a deal with prosecutors, he pleaded guilty to distribution of narcotics and income tax evasion and provided information on his partner, Ruben A. Garza.
Randolf K. Vazquez, 37, grew up in Queens... attended the High School of Art and Design, but dropped out in 1975... worked as security guard, stock clerk, bartender and bank guard before joining the police in 1985... was partners with Alvarez... accused of the sale and possession of drugs.
Michael G. Walsh, 33, grew up on 65th Street in Queens... graduated from Power Memorial in 1979... moved with mother and siblings to Texas, where he attended school for three semesters at Tarranto County Junior College before dropping out... worked at Western Hills Inn in Euless, Tex., and then for Higman Towing Company as a deckhand... joined the police force in July 1986... has eight citations for good police work... is accused of stealing and selling cocaine.
 JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The bonds between many police officers who face the dangers of the city together have been ripped apart by the corruption scandal that has engulfed the 30th Precinct in Harlem. A barricade was put outside the entrance last week after the arrest of several officers. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC) JOHN ARENA (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BRIBERY; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT CORRUPTION (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); BRIBERY (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); FELONIES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); MISCONDUCT (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); EXTORTION (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR JORGE ALVAREZ (91%); RANDOLF VAZQUEZ (83%); STEPHEN SETTEDUCATTO (62%); GEORGE NOVA (60%); ALBERTO VARGAS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



587 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
For Texans, pride outweighs percentages in buying bonds.

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
IN the financial markets, which immediately assess the value, or cost, of wars, hurricanes, new Presidents and new technology, what's the true worth of Texan pride? About 10 basis points, or one-tenth of 1 percent in annual interest.
A tenth of a percentage point or more is the annual interest Texans willingly forgo by favoring bonds from their own state over comparable bonds from other states without income taxes, according to Timothy T. Browse, portfolio manager of the Eaton Vance Texas Tax-Free Marathon Fund. 
 Texas investors can choose from at least a dozen Texas municipal bond funds, even though limiting a fund to Texas, one of seven states with no income tax, offers no tax advantage to residents.
For the state and its local governments, with about $125 billion in outstanding debt, the annual interest savings amount to at least $125 million, enough to employ 3,300 teachers or buy the sliced brisket plates at Angelo's barbecue in Fort Worth for nearly all 18 million residents of the state.
Most other single-state bond funds boast double-tax-free income, because states usually do not tax the interest that they or their cities pay to their own residents. New York City investors, burdened with a city, as well as a state, income tax, often buy triple-tax-free bonds or bond funds.
Talk with Texans and they will list their own reasons for investing locally. They can see the highways, schools and stadiums their money is building and they can question the officials in charge face to face.
"Somebody who lives in Texas has more of a feel for Texas," said Frederick E. Rowe, whose money management firm in Dallas bears his name. "You know the people. Maybe there's a New York City fund, but who knows what those Yankees are going to do?"
But some municipal bond analysts would not agree. Catherine Voss Sanders, associate editor of the Morningstar Mutual Funds Newsletter, says she sees little reason for buying single-state funds from places like Texas.
"If you are in a state with no income tax, you probably would be best to shop among the national municipal funds," she said. This provides diversification, making the investor less dependent on the fortunes of one state.
The number of Texas funds has doubled in the last few years amid talk in Austin, the capital, of imposing an income tax. Texas municipals have gained, because a new tax would make tax-free income more valuable. The economic recovery in the state has also firmed up some credit ratings and prices.
"It's one of the fastest-growing states around, and with the North American Free Trade Agreement, that's only going to improve things," said Stella Wong, a senior portfolio manager for the Franklin Texas Tax-Free Income Fund.
Texas voters tried to stop the tax talk last November by amending the state's constitution to require a two-thirds vote for an income tax. Since then Texans have stood by their bonds, which have done at least as well as others in the rout of the credit market.
For the year through the end of March, Franklin's $142 million Texas fund, the largest, had a net return of 4.02 percent, acccording to Morningstar, while the average return from single-state funds was 2.22 percent.
Even if politicians never succeed in passing a state income tax, by keeping the discussion going they could frighten more investors into buying municipal bonds and saving state and local governments even more money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



588 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Du Pont, Dow Chemical and other makers of materials used to make heart valves, artificial blood vessels and other implants have been quietly warning medical equipment companies that they intend to end deliveries because of fears of lawsuits. [Page A1.] 
 Mexicans who cross the border in search of better shopping are the quarry in a growing battle between retailers in Texas, who are trying to keep their stores full of Mexican customers, and merchants in Mexico, who want them to shop at home. [D1.]
Operators of hundreds of independent pharmacies across the country have become so troubled by the conflict between selling medicine and selling tobacco that they have taken tobacco products off their shelves. [D1.]
 
International
To Japan's business community, the pending change of Prime Ministers from Morihiro Hosokawa to Tsutomu Hata represents the transition from a visionary to a nuts-and-bolts manager. Business leaders say they believe Mr. Hata will be able to enact some policies Mr. Hosokawa articulated well but could not carry out. [D1.]
Brazil has bucked a worldwide slump in wine exports to the U.S. and has emerged as the fastest growing exporter to the American market, thanks to the marketing efforts of a single company, the Cooperativa Vinicola Aurora. [D1.]
Finance officials from the seven leading industrial nations expressed optimism that the global economy could grow faster this year despite a recent rise in long-term interest rates. [D2.]
 
The Economy
Orders for American-made machine tools rose 25.8 percent in March, capping the best first quarter for the industry in more than a decade, the Association for Manufacturing Technology said. [D6.]
Privately insured individuals often collect Medicare benefits as well, costing the U.S. hundreds of millions of dollars a year. To the chagrin of employers, the solution is more paperwork. [A11.]
Despite having industries that provide building blocks for a stronger economy, the New York metropolitan area is still losing ground compared with other regions, a new report says. [B5.]
 
The Media Business
Just three months ago, when two networks were offering air time by the truckload to Diane Sawyer, the news magazine was considered television's hottest programming genre. But by last week, ratings for the nine news magazines now being broadcast had dropped so far that concerns arose as to whether the format had reached a saturation point. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
William Randolph Hearst 3d, publisher and editor of The San Francisco Examiner and grandson of the famous press lord, has been struggling with sinking circulation and a frustrating business predicament at his newspaper. But he is also captivated by the broad multimedia future he envisions. [D8.]
The Atlantic Monthly and Harper's Magazine have each come close to expiring in the last 15 years. But as many larger and better-financed magazines still stumble out of recession, the two publications say they have turned themselves around. [D9.]
The aggressive battle among makers of artificial sweeteners enters a new phase as the advertising campaigns themselves become the focus of the fracas. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
Today's Columns
Apex Bioscience, a research company in North Carolina, has been granted a patent for a blood treatment that it hopes will reverse the life-threatening consequences of septic shock. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
What's the true worth of Texan pride? Brokers say about 10 basis points, or one-tenth of 1 percent in annual interest on bond rates. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (55%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); COOPERATIVA VINICOLA AURORA LTDA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (72%); RECESSION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); PHARMACIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); PUBLISHING (61%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (52%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); MEDICARE (50%); 

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



589 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Wanted: G.O.P. Candidate; Must Be Ambitious, Popular

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 24

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's approval ratings are at the same level that George Bush's were the week before he lost the 1992 election. They are where Jimmy Carter's were in 1980 immediately after an American helicopter crashed in the Iranian desert.
And yet an improbable confluence of factors, ranging from the utter disarray in New York's Republican Party to the gradual recovery of the state's economy, is starting to make Mr. Cuomo look more and more like a front-runner. 
 There is increasing concern in Republican circles, both in New York and in Washington, that the party may be squandering an opportunity. If Mr. Cuomo wins, New York's Republicans will have been shut out of the Governor's office for 24 years by the end of his term.
That void has created deep institutional problems that the party seems unable to overcome every four years. It is a party still torn between the liberal legacy left by Nelson Rockefeller and the Reagan Republicanism embraced by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. It is also a party where power is so divided -- between Mr. D'Amato, the Republican majority in the State Senate, and local power brokers in strongholds like Nassau County -- that many analysts question whether those competitors truly want to crown a new king.
It is still very early, of course. And given Mr. Cuomo's many liabilities after three terms in office, no one in either party is betting too heavily on him. In the latest poll by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, which was conducted last month, only 36 percent of the respondents approved of his job performance.
But even the most loyal Republicans -- ranging from Senator D'Amato to Herbert London, a gubernatorial candidate -- concede that their party's electoral failings and recent political pratfalls have left the Governor in far better shape than could ever have been expected.
 
'He Has to Be Very Happy'
 "As each day goes by, Mario Cuomo's chances improve," said Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President and a prominent Republican leader. "He has to be very happy about the state of the Republican Party and the lethargy that has set in."
Richard N. Bond, a Republican political consultant and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, said his party could salvage a victory, but only because Mr. Cuomo "ranks as one of the most endangered incumbent governors in this country."
"The bad news is that we're out of position," said Mr. Bond, a native New Yorker who works in Alexandria, Va. "Essentially, we've forgotten how to win. The good news is, it might not even matter. I believe Cuomo is just that weak."
 
Factors of Misfortune
 There is no single prevailing reason that the New York race has shaped up as it has. Instead, a dozen distinct factors -- many of them misadventures that are singular to New York Republican politics -- have contributed to Mr. Cuomo's good fortune.
The Republicans have drifted from election to election without consistent direction in ideology or strategy. As illustrated by this year's field, which includes former Representative Bill Green, who was considered one of the most liberal Republicans in Congress, and Mr. London, who ran in 1990 as the Conservative Party nominee, the party's ideological focus in New York is highly diffuse.
"We've had significant victories in local elections, but there's no one power center in the party that can deliver a gubernatorial election," said a prominent Republican who spoke on condition of anonymity. "And you look in the Legislature and the congressional delegation and everyone is risk averse. They all want a sure thing."
After the 1992 election, there were at least three New York Republicans with statewide reputations who were considered capable of defeating Mr. Cuomo -- Chief Judge Sol Wachtler, Comptroller Edward V. Regan, and Senator D'Amato.
Eighteen months later, Mr. Wachtler is in jail after pleading guilty to Federal charges that he threatened the daughter of his former lover. Mr. Regan resigned last year in the middle of his term to take a job at an economics think tank, ending his prospects for higher office and insuring that the Legislature would select a Democrat, H. Carl McCall, to take his job. And Mr. D'Amato, after using his flirtation with a gubernatorial race to fill his campaign treasury, announced last fall that he would stay in the Senate. He told friends privately that he had no appetite for another bruising campaign, particularly against a pugilist like Mr. Cuomo.
 
A Field of Second-Stringers
 Without them, New York's Republicans were left with an expansive field of second-stringers. None of the losers from the 1990 Republican ticket -- Pierre A. Rinfret, George F. T. Yancey Jr., and Bernard C. Smith -- survived that year's debacle to run again. Instead, the party was reduced to searching for candidates from Congress, the State Legislature, county governments or the private sector, few of whom could claim a significant political base.
"We did nothing to build the party with that exercise," said Jay Severin, a Republican political consultant, referring to the 1990 campaign. "We didn't use it to give our younger players some game experience."
That is a distinct difference between this year's New York race and the successful 1993 Republican campaigns for Mayor of New York City and Governor of New Jersey. Both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman had run previously, Mr. Giuliani for Mayor in 1989 and Ms. Whitman for United States Senator in 1990.
 
No Repeats of 1990
 Once it became apparent that the Republican gubernatorial nominee would be a relative unknown, William D. Powers, the state Republican chairman, set out to find a candidate who could become the consensus choice of both the Republican and Conservative parties. He hoped to avoid a repeat of 1990, when the two parties nominated different candidates, Mr. Rinfret and Mr. London, who split the anti-Cuomo vote. He also hoped to avoid a divisive primary that would divert the focus of the campaign from Mr. Cuomo's record.
That effort has failed. A month before the party's state convention in New York City, to be held May 23-25, there are four announced candidates. Several others are still considering the race. The only question now about the Sept. 13 primary is how large the field will be.
To get on the primary ballot, a candidate must either win the votes of 25 percent of the delegates at the convention or collect 15,000 signatures on nominating petitions.
Senator George E. Pataki, the hand-picked candidate of Mr. D'Amato and Mr. Powers, seems certain to win 25 percent at the convention. But efforts to form a broad consensus around Mr. Pataki have been frustrated by the opposition of Ralph J. Marino, the Senate majority leader, who has longstanding political differences with him.
Mr. London, who says he has commitments from 15 percent of the delegates, also has a chance to get on the ballot at the convention. The prospects are less clear for Mr. Green, who has declared his candidacy, and for two Republicans who have not -- J. Patrick Barrett, a former state party chairman, and Evan G. Galbraith, a former ambassador to France.
 
Skipping the Convention
 Richard N. Rosenbaum, an announced candidate, plans to skip the convention and go the petition route to demonstrate his independence from the party bosses. As state Republican chairman from 1973 to 1977, Mr. Rosenbaum was once a party boss himself.
While Mr. Cuomo has started an aggressive fund-raising campaign -- he collected $1.5 million at a dinner in Manhattan last week -- the confusion in the Republican ranks has made fundraising difficult. Mr. Rosenbaum, who leads the Republican candidates in fund-raising, said he has found "an ambivalence based on the uncertainty about which Republican is going to survive all this."
At this point, none of the Republican candidates has built a large following, and that has kept voters from learning much about them. At the same time, Mr. Powers's hopes for a friendly primary seem to have vanished. Mr. Pataki and Mr. London spent the last two weeks trading insults in a volley of news releases.
While the Republicans bicker, Mr. Cuomo has benefited from encouraging economic news. State Labor Department figures show that the unemployment rate dropped to 8.1 percent in March from 8.5 percent in February, and that non-farm employment grew by 87,100 jobs between March 1993 and March 1994.
The Governor has even taken to dismissing the tardiness of the state budget, which is 24 days late, as a byproduct of good news. The Legislature, he says at every opportunity, has had difficulty divvying up the state's unexpectedly strong revenues. "So far we've not handled good fortune well," he said last week. "Maybe that's because we're out of practice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (57%); HELICOPTERS (57%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); SACK, KEVIN JIMMY CARTER (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



590 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: 4 Million Children Said to Live in 'Distress'

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Nearly four million American children are growing up in neighborhoods with high rates of poverty, absent fathers, unemployment and reliance on welfare, according to a new study.
The study by the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a philanthropy for poor children, said the children's choices were restricted by the troubles of their peers, neighbors and surroundings. 
 Douglas W. Nelson, the foundation's executive director, said, "We can no longer be surprised by the terrible outcomes experienced by young people who grow up in environments where drugs, violence, welfare and teen pregnancy are far more prevalent then safe schools, high school diplomas and good jobs."
He added: "These neighborhoods offer no real choices. We need to change that."
The foundation's annual study, "Kids Count Data Book," sought to quantify the number of children in stressful neighborhoods for the first time. Based largely on Census Bureau and other government data, the study found that nearly half the 3.9 million children living in very troubled neighborhoods were in six states: California, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Ohio and Texas. Every state except Idaho had such neighborhoods.
The study used five indicators to determine if a neighborhood was troubled: a poverty rate above 28 percent; more than 40 percent of the households headed by women; a high school dropout rate over 23 percent; more than 47 percent of men "unattached to the labor force," and more than 17 percent of families on welfare. A neighborhood with four of the five indicators was rated "severely distressed."
These were among the report's other findings:
*One-quarter of all children under 6 live in poverty, and over half of them in a family headed by a woman.
*One out of every four black children lives in a severely distressed neighborhood, compared with 1 of every 10 Hispanic children and 1 of every 63 white children.
*Births to single teen-agers were increasing in all but Maryland, New Jersey and New York.
*The violent death rate for teen-agers rose 13 percent between 1985 and 1991. While deaths of 15- to 19-year-olds caused by accidents decreased by 15 percent, deaths by homicide doubled.
*The violent crime arrest rate for youths 10-17 increased 50 percent from 1985 to 1991. In 1985, it was 305 per 100,000 youths; in 1991, it rose to 457 per 100,000.
The Annie E. Casey Foundation was established in 1948 by Jim Casey, a founder of United Parcel Service, and his siblings, and named for their mother.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CASEY, ANNIE E, FOUNDATION UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASEY, ANNIE E, FOUNDATION US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WELFARE (US); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR CHILDREN (92%); POVERTY RATES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WOMEN (78%); CHARITIES (78%); MEN (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); CENSUS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); HOMICIDE (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



591 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Japanese See Hopeful Sign In Transition

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 24

 BODY:
To Japan's business community, the pending change of Prime Ministers from Morihiro Hosokawa to Tsutomu Hata represents the transition from a visionary to a nuts-and-bolts manager.
Business leaders say they are optimistic that Mr. Hata will be able to put into effect some of the policies the flashy Mr. Hosokawa elucidated well but could not always carry out. These include deregulating business activities, spurring the economy with permanent income tax cuts and coming up with proposals on opening the country's markets to restart the stalled trade negotiations with the United States. 
 "Hata is a veteran politician," said Takeshi Kondo, general manager of the office of political and economic research at the Itochu Corporation, a large trading company. "He has many allies politically. He is determined to implement what Mr. Hosokawa had proposed."
Mr. Hata, chosen by the ruling coalition last week, is expected to be elected by the Parliament Monday.
 
Limited Maneuverability
 Despite his skills, Mr. Hata's maneuverability will be hampered by the same division in the ruling coalition that plagued Mr. Hosokawa, some experts said. The conservatives and leftists cooperated only out of a desire to remain in power, and the coalition nearly fell apart again last week because of differences on tax policy and North Korea.
Moreover, any push for deregulation and trade concessions will run into Japan's powerful bureaucrats.
Mr. Hosokawa attacked the bureaucrats head on, angering them. Mr. Hata, who has been Foreign Minister and Minister of Finance and Agriculture, is expected to work cooperatively with the bureaucrats, or simply follow their agenda.
He "knows where to push and where to pull" in the bureacracy, said Toshihiro Kiribuchi, a managing director of the Omron Corporation, an electronics company. "In that sense he is better. But there is a limit."
The markets reacted Friday in a mildly positive way to the transition, having already anticipated Mr. Hata's appointment. The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei average rose 165.03, to 19,964.39, on Friday. In Tokyo trading, the dollar rose by 0.87 yen, to 103.77 yen, a move that helps Japan's export-oriented industries.
Investors, fearing a long period of instability would derail Japan's nascent and fragile recovery, seemed relieved that someone would quickly step into power.
The most nettlesome economic issue facing Mr. Hata is taxes. Japanese businessmen are pushing for income tax cuts beyond the one already scheduled for this year to spur consumer spending. But the Finance Ministry, wary of a budget deficit, wants to compensate by eventually raising the national sales tax above its current level of 3 percent.
The United States also wants income tax cuts, hoping greater spending by Japanese consumers will increase imports. But it fears consumers will not spend if they know their gains from income tax cuts will be offset by higher taxes elsewhere.
Mr. Hosokawa proposed an income tax cut and eventual increase in the sales tax. But he was immediately forced to retract his proposal because of fierce opposition from the Socialist Party, the largest group in the coalition, which views the sales tax as falling hardest on the poor.
This time, Mr. Hata and Mr. Ozawa insisted that the ruling coalition agree on policies before Mr. Hata would take office. On the tax issue, the Socialists again balked and threatened to quit the coalition. They finally agreed to a compromise in which the parties will work to lower income taxes and raise indirect taxes while "trying to gain public support."
Analysts said the agreement would not prevent further disputes. Still, the prospects of the coalition's getting through a tax overhaul without falling apart are "much better than a month and a half ago," said Mineko Sasaki-Smith, a Tokyo-based economist for Morgan Stanley & Company.
Mr. Hata is considered more interested in economic affairs than was Prime Minister Hosokawa. "He understands economic policy much better than Hosokawa," said a former Finance Ministry official.
 
More Involved in Trade Talks
 Mr. Hata has also been more deeply involved in the trade negotiations with the United States than was Prime Minister Hosokawa, who paid little attention to them until it was time to meet with President Clinton.
As Foreign Minister, Mr. Hata became Japan's point man on the broad-based talks leading to the two leaders' meeting in Washington in February. He spent late nights in a last-ditch, and ultimately unsuccessful, effort to forge agreements aimed at opening Japan's markets for automobiles, insurance, medical and telecommunications equipment.
But whether Mr. Hata will be able to come up with new proposals to satisfy the United States remains to be seen. Analysts say that Mr. Hata, like Mr. Hosokawa, opposes numerical targets on specific imported products. They speculated, however, that his administration might be willing to agree to a goal for reducing Japan's overall trade surplus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8001 (TSE) (70%); 6645 (TSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334514 TOTALIZING FLUID METER & COUNTING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3824 TOTALIZING FLUID METERS & COUNTING DEVICES (65%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (65%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: ITOCHU CORP (70%); OMRON CORP (65%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT DEREGULATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SALES TAX (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); POLITICS (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); US DOLLAR (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO; HATA, TSUTOMO (MIN) MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



592 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Lines Shift in Border War for Mexican Shopper

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, April 24

 BODY:
Mexicans call them Malinchistas after La Malinche, the Aztec, who married the Spanish conqueror Hernan Cortes and aided his triumph over Mexico. Today, Malinchistas are Mexican shoppers who cross the border into Texas seeking cheaper prices, better selection or cachet.
They are the quarry in an intensifying battle between retailers in Texas, who are trying to keep their stores full of Mexican shoppers, and merchants in Mexico, who want them to shop at home. The Mexican side appears to have the edge, helped by none other than United States retailers like Wal-Mart and Sears. Those chains are lavishing Mexicans with more "Made in the U.S.A." products, sold in "Made in the U.S.A." settings. 
 Lower trade barriers, brought about partly by the North American Free Trade Agreement, and tougher customs enforcement against Mexican shoppers who load up on goods in Texas, are helping stores here recapture Mexican customers.
One of the complicating consequences of the free trade pact has been to sharpen enmities, pitting Mexican retailers against Texan retailers, United States apparel makers against United States merchants and United States retailing chains against themselves.
 
Mexico's Stores Learn to Compete
 In the last couple of years, both Mexican and United States retailers operating in Mexico have regained customers here with better prices and a greater variety of goods. Monterrey's first Wal-Mart, with 44 cash registers, was so crowded when it opened in November that police had to keep people from pushing in.
Mexican chains are cutting their profit margins, raising their advertising budgets and stocking their stores with United States brand names. Meanwhile, retail sales growth has slowed in many places on the Texas side of the border, with some merchants reporting declines.
But recapturing Mexican shoppers is not easy. Just ask Victor Ramirez Puente, a salesman in the jeans department at the Sears here, where he got the Levi's 501's hanging on his hips.
"Laredo," he bragged without hesitation, referring to the Texas border town more than 120 miles away. There, in trips made almost weekly, he and his friends save about $15 a pair, and more on other purchases.
Mr. Ramirez's frankness carries little risk. Among the customers his jeans department still cannot lure away from Laredo is the store's general manager, who brings whole wardrobes back.
Although some Mexicans may call each other Malinchistas, few from Monterrey hesitate to shop elsewhere for the best buys, just as few Wall Street traders hesitate to dump American stocks when foreign markets have greater appeal.
Skirmishes about the loyalties of Mexican shoppers flare as far north as Dallas, where the wealthier Mexicans fly or drive, and as far south as Mexico City, where some American border stores advertise. But the clash is loudest along the corridor between Laredo and Monterrey, an area of about three million people. Monterrey is the largest Mexican city within an easy drive of the border.
In the Laredo area, which has a population of about 140,000, retail sales in 1992 had doubled from the levels of 1987, the year after Mexico signed a global tariff agreement. Then last year, sales barely budged, in part because of a weakening Mexican economy and separate campaigns against smuggling by Mexican customs officers and United States jeans makers.
Laredo has responded by becoming more aggressive. Its merchants emphasize that they still have more efficient distribution and much lower taxes on electronics, clothing and other goods from beyond the North American free trade zone. They bombard drivers from Mexico with sales flyers in Spanish. The Laredo Wal-Mart, open until midnight, is often the busiest in the nation.
The Mall Del Norte in Laredo, with 113 stores and restaurants, is still expanding, approaching the size of the largest malls in Texas. Customers sometimes bring so much cash -- tens of thousands of dollars -- that the Sears store has installed safes near several of the cash registers.
Richard P. Perez, the manager of Sears, said he would teach the executives of his company, which is based in Chicago, how to compete for the Mexican shopper. "We're pioneers," he said, as he walked past racks of women's clothing and across what must be one of the few marble floors inside a Sears store in the United States. "If we don't write all our own rules, we're not doing justice as retailers. As Mexico goes, so goes this store."
Mr. Perez said he had pressed Sears to make the merchandising more exciting. "Only now have the people in Chicago started paying attention to what we're saying," he said.
These days, salespeople like Maru Martinez, who is from Monterrey, have to do more persuading. She helped shoppers like Silvia Gaspari, look at treadmills, but the couple wanted to do some comparative shopping back home in Mexico City.
"I remember there used to be a great difference in prices,' Mrs. Gaspari said. "Now, no. But electronics and some other things are still much cheaper here."
 
 
Tough Customs Enforcement
 Tougher customs enforcement has hurt sales at merchants in downtown Laredo, whose whitewashed store facades with Spanish lettering differ little from those across the nearby bridges to the Mexican side.
Les Norton's customers, three-quarters of them Mexican, often used to buy dozens, sometimes hundreds of pairs of sneakers or jeans from his family's three downtown stores, to resell them in Mexican flea markets, homes or small shops. Mexican customs officials and United States jeans makers have joined to curb this traffic, causing his overall sales to fall by at least 15 percent in the last year, he said.
"When Nafta got passed, we were told, 'Oh boy, things are really going to change,' " he said. "But retail merchants are the forgotten children in this whole thing."
Levi Strauss & Company has cut Mr. Norton's jeans shipments and has threatened to stop supplying him if he sells more than six pairs at a time. David Samson, a spokesman for Levi Strauss, said the company, not wholesalers posing as retailers, had the right to supply the Mexican market directly.
Levi Strauss wants to improve sales in boutiques like the one in the Monterrey Sears, where import tariffs, but also mark-ups, make prices higher than those in the United States. Jeans that could be found farther north for $35 a pair, and for much less on sale, cost about $50 here.
 
 
U.S. Goods Have Cachet
 To sell more jeans in Mexico, retailers must overcome their customers' beliefs that anything -- even the same thing -- bought in the United States must be better.
"Guess Jeans here and in the United States are very different," said Alfredo Fuentes, a customer at the Sears in Monterrey, as he rolled the cloth of a pants leg between his fingers at the Sears boutique. "Just look at the fabric. Look at the cut."
Even with more renovations planned, the Monterrey Sears has in some respects already arrived at the point where Mr. Perez wants the Laredo Sears to be. Hector Labrador, the store manager in Monterrey, has brought in a United States agency to polish his advertisements and promotions to the standards of the stores in which he spies and shops during his frequent trips north. On his last visit to Laredo in late February, Mr. Labrador and his wife spent about $500, mostly for clothing, in Dillard's, J. C. Penney and Sears. The customs agents let them pass.
With more American goods available in Monterrey, Mr. Labrador has cut his trips north to 4 a year, from about 10.
Most of the new competitors in Monterrey are off to strong starts. The Wal-Mart and the company's two new Sam's Club stores have brought Monterrey shoppers the lowest local prices they have seen. Sam's Club offers 27-inch Sony televisions for about $725, hundreds of dollars less than the prices at some local competitors and within $100 or $200 of the best prices in the United States.
At the first Sam's in Monterrey, Ovidio Rodriguez said that with the threat of tariffs, the television prices he saw in Laredo and McAllen, Tex., offered little advantage. "I'm going to buy one right now," he said.
 But he said he still seldom bought anything big without first looking to the north. His wife, Patricia Martinez, said toys and children's clothing cost a third as much in the United States. "A big difference," she said. "That's why we go to Toys 'R' Us."
Mexican merchants are hardly content to let American retailers on both sides of the border raid their clientele. Several Mexican companies have teamed with American retailers: Wal-Mart's partner is Grupo Cifra. Mexican retailers also have taken advantage of lower trade barriers to offer their customers more goods from the north.
At a Salinas y Rocha store covering a whole block of downtown Monterrey, there is a life-size cardboard Michael Jordan, hawking the latest in footwear, that beckons shoppers into the sports department. There, Carlos Guzman browsed through a rack of shorts and shirts boldly labeled "Sun Blocks. Made in Oceanside, California USA." He said he bought most of his clothes in Mexico, but shopped for electronics equipment in the United States.
 
 
New Rivals in Monterrey
 The store has spent two years planning its defense against arriving competitors that will soon include Dillard's and J. C. Penney. A year ago, the company dispatched Arturo Lozano Ayala, 34, to assume command. Mr. Lozano walks the sales floor to observe younger shoppers like Mr. Guzman.
"Our clients will go wherever there is something new," Mr. Lozano said. "We have to fight for their attention."
More sales, more aggressive advertising, lower prices, more brand names and more up-to-the-minute fashions have been among Mr. Lozano's weapons. Like other Mexican retailers, he is preparing for an era of higher turnover but lower profit margins.
But when Mr. Lozano gets enough practice in fending off foreign retailers, he may be ready for another campaign. "I hope with all my heart that we would arrive in the United States," he said. "That would be our triumph."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The competition for Mexican consumers remains fierce along the border. While giant retailers have opened outlets in Mexico, the lure of the Texas side, where retail bargain-hunting has reigned for years, is still strong. At Sears in Laredo, Tex., Richard P. Perez, the manager, showed televisions to shoppers. (J. Michael Short for The New York Times)
 
Map of Texas showing locations of Laredo and Monterrey. (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS AND SUPERCENTERS (92%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO WAL-MART STORES INC (92%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (90%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES; TEXAS; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); TEXAS, USA (96%); LAREDO, TX, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS RETAILERS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); APPAREL MFG (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



593 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Havana Woos Exiles, Easing Visits and Dangling Financial Carrot

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 24

 BODY:
The Cuban Government announced a number of measures this weekend in an effort to encourage more Cuban-Americans to visit and to attract investment here.
Scrapping many of the requirements that had limited the number of emigres' returning on visits, the Government was host to a three-day conference that was the first sizable meeting between the Communist leadership and representatives of the exile population in 16 years. 
 The gathering represented not only the beginning of a reconciliation between the Government and the more than 1.5 million Americans of Cuban descent but also what seemed to be a similar effort toward the United States.
By lifting some restrictions on visits by Cuban-Americans and hinting at lucrative investment possibilities, Havana appeared to be gambling that many exiles would lobby in the United States for an end to Washington's three-decade embargo against Cuba.
 
Waiting Period Ended
 The measures included the lifting of a five-year waiting period for return visits of Cubans who emigrate legally, the end of requirements that visitors spend money in Government-owned hotels, the creation of an office in the Foreign Ministry to deal with the needs of emigres, allowing Cuban-Americans to study in Cuban institutions, and the creation of a magazine specializing in the problems of migrants.
Although its application recently lapsed, the requirement that Cubans spend a fixed minimum in the official tourist economy has often been cited by Washington as a major obstacle to allowing greatly expanded air travel between Cuba and the United States. The United States Treasury Department allows Cuban-Americans to spend a maximum of $100 a day when visiting the country. Most other Americans are prohibited from spending money on the island altogether, a restriction that practically bars them from traveling to Cuba.
Many of the more than 200 conference participants, who were invited at least partly because of their opposition to the United States embargo, expressed enthusiasm for the changes and said they would push for a shift in Washington's policy toward the island.
If their thirst for change catches on back home, this would represent a major shift in the attitude of a Cuban-American exiles, which for years has been dominated by strongly conservative voices opposed to any openings toward the Government of President Fidel Castro.
 
Reasons to Return
 "The more the Cuban Government can recognize legitimate interests that exist in our community, the more they are giving people concrete reasons to go back to the States and lobby for changes on the other side," said Francisco Aruca, a Miami businessman and radio station operator who took part in the talks. "They have started down a route that is very serious and cannot be turned back."
United States officials continue to say that only broad democratic reforms in Cuba will bring about a lifting of Washington's embargo. Although political questions were occasionally raised by participants in this weekend's conference, the official agenda was limited to immigration issues.
Mr. Aruca's company, Marazul Charters, operates some of the 11 special flights from Miami that bring nearly 1,000 Cuban-Americans to the country each week, bearing badly needed clothing, medicines and money for relatives caught in the worst economic crisis since Mr. Castro came to power in 1959.
Many participants said Cuba's interest in drawing closer to the exiles, in addition to potentially affecting American policy toward the island, was driven by their growing contribution to the economy, whose value has been estimated at more than $400 million a year.
 
Risks for the Government
 But if they spoke with enthusiasm about the meeting, many of the participants from the United States, like dissidents here, said Havana's quickening efforts to open up the country carried as many risks for the Government as it did opportunities.
As more and more Cuban-Americans arrive -- well dressed, well educated and well fed, brandishing cash and cellular telephones and eventually seeking out investments, many here say -- Cubans whose standard of living has fallen sharply since the collapse of the former Soviet Union may feel emboldened to push for increasingly dramatic economic and political changes at home.
"Closed regimes like this cannot withstand an opening of communications," said Gerardo Sanchez, a leading Cuban dissident. "There are two kinds of groups that will always resist an end of the embargo, the most rejectionist elements of the exile community, and the President of this country."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); TRENDS (61%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



594 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Group of 7 Optimistic on Low-Inflation Growth This Year

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Finance officials from the world's seven richest industrial countries expressed optimism today that the global economy could grow faster this year despite a recent rise in long-term interest rates.
In a chairman's statement summarizing the discussions, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said his colleagues believed a variety of signs pointed to stronger growth, with inflation remaining low. "I was pleased to hear the optimism around the table," he said. 
 Mr. Bentsen said the seven nations -- the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Canada and Italy -- had pledged to continue pursuing policies put in place last year but had not indicated that any nation was willing to come forward with new commitments.
The United States had been pushing Japan and Germany to do more to stimulate their domestic economies, given the unexpectedly deep recessions in both nations. But Japanese and German officials have so far resisted, arguing that they have done enough and that doing more would risk reigniting inflationary pressure.
The G-7 finance ministers and central bank presidents praised Russia's economic reform efforts, which led to a new $1.5 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund last week.
Russia's Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Shokhin, and other Russian economic policy makers briefed the group today on the status of Russia's reform program.
Mr. Bentsen said the Western nations welcomed Russia's commitments to reduce the budget deficit to no more than 7.5 percent of the total economy this year and to bring inflation down to a monthly rate of 7 percent by year's end.
Based on those commitments, he said, the Group of Seven is urging the World Bank to accelerate new loans for Russia.
On global growth, Mr. Bentsen said, "The bottom line was: We agreed the fundamentals are good, and we reiterated that inflation remains under control."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUDGETS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



595 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

SCANDAL IN THE 30TH: A GROUP PORTRAIT
What drives police officers to step over the line into lawlessness? Of the dozen men accused in the 30th Precinct drug-corruption scandal, all had working-class backgrounds, and a few had exemplary reputations. In a wide array of interviews, people who know the accused have helped to sketch the broad contours of the officers' lives, and to provide a partial understanding of the road to the wrong side of the law. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY 

TRACKING DOWN A QUEENS ATTACKER
A lone attacker has struck eight times in broad daylight in several Queens neighborhoods, following his elderly victims from banks, threatening them with a silver pistol while demanding money and sometimes a car. Once he pistol-whipped, robbed and shot a woman inside the garage of her home. Once he stole a woman's handbag as she was unloading packages in the driveway of her house. On Friday the police released a photograph of a man they identified as a suspect. B3.
 
BRATTON ON CORRUPTION
Police Commissioner William J. Bratton does not oppose an outside agency to monitor police corruption efforts but does not want it to conduct its own investigations. This position puts him at odds with the Mollen Commission, which was established under Mayor David N. Dinkins to investigate police corruption in New York City. First in a television interview and then in elaboration by a spokesman, the Commissioner provided his most detailed position yet on an external monitor, a subject that is expected to be a central recommendation in the Mollen Commission's final report next month. B3.
 
REPUBLICANS AT CROSSROADS
The special election for a City Council seat on Staten Island tomorrow pits two politically prominent families against each other and also will determine whether the Republican Party can retain the dominance it has held for years in that district. The election, in the Council's 51st District, along the borough's south shore, is being held to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Alfred C. Cerullo 3d, a popular Councilman appointed last month as the city's Consumer Affairs Commissioner by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. B3.
 
BRONX JUDGE ARRESTED
An acting State Supreme Court justice who has presided over many criminal cases in his Bronx courtroom was arrested and charged by the police with assaulting the woman with whom he lives and with resisting arrest by the officers who took him into custody. The judge, Frank Diaz, 53, was accused of striking his companion, Patricia Roberts, 50, in a domestic dispute, and of shoving one of the officers who arrested him about 2 A.M. at his apartment in the Norwood section of the Bronx. B3.
 
REGION
 
SEASIDE RESORT ACCUSED OF BIAS
Wildwood, N.J., used blatantly unfair zoning restrictions to try to drive out low-income families receiving rent subsidies, according to a Federal District Court judge who said a person "would have to be deaf, dumb and blind" not to have seen what was going on. Earlier this month the judge issued a temporary restraining order that prevents the city from enforcing the restrictions. Local officials refused to comment on the case but said there was never any intention to discriminate against any group. B5.
 
A REGION FALLING BEHIND
The New York metropolitan area's economy is driven by leading industries of the future that will provide the building blocks to make it stronger, but the area is still losing ground compared with other regions, according to a new report. The study, one of the most detailed looks in recent years at the economy of the immense urban conglomeration surrounding New York City, makes for sobering reading. B5.
 
BRUSH FIRE SNARLS TRAFFIC
Firefighters battled a brush fire in the marshlands near the Meadowlands complex, forcing officials to close part of the New Jersey Turnpike and Route 3. The blaze, which did not appear to be deliberately set, produced smoke that was visible in New York City and the surrounding area. No injuries, deaths or damage to buildings were reported, but Route 3, which connects Secaucus to Route 46 in Clifton, was closed for about an hour and a half. Traffic was backed up for about three miles in both directions, officials said. B5.
 
Chronicle B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CORRUPTION (91%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); CITIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); FAMILY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); RESORTS (66%); ZONING (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



596 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Seaside Resort Is Accused of Housing Bias

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WILDWOOD, N.J., April 21

 BODY:
With city building inspectors on her doorstep, Nancy Carrasco made up her mind.
No, she told them, she would not budge. 
 They had informed her landlord that the two-bedroom apartment Mrs. Carrasco shared with her two children was out of compliance with the new occupancy code in this southern Jersey seaside resort. Her apartment was now considered too small to meet the new standard, she was told. For the "health and safety" of her children, she was being evicted.
Uh-uh, Mrs. Carrasco told them, setting her jaw. "You'll need a bulldozer to get me out of here," she said. "I know my rights."
That scene took place two years ago, she said, and Mrs. Carrasco is still sitting tight. Earlier this month a Federal district judge in Camden issued a temporary restraining order that prevents the city of Wildwood, just north of Cape May, from enforcing changes that effectively restricted occupancy to one person per bedroom, a requirement far above the square footage required in just about any other municipality in the nation.
 
Selective Enforcement
 Lawyers from the United States Justice Department had argued that the city approved the changes in 1990 in a calculated attempt to drive out low-income families receiving rent subsidies. Most of the activity, they said, was directed at Hispanic residents, chiefly Puerto Ricans, who had been moving into Wildwood in increasing numbers over the last decade, and was in blatant violation of the Federal Fair Housing Act.
Federal Judge Joseph E. Irenas appeared to agree. "Somebody looking at this file," he said in reference to the Justice Department complaint outlining allegations about selective enforcement of the occupancy code, "would have to be deaf, dumb and blind not to see what is going on."
City officials refused to comment on the lawsuit but said there was never any intention to discriminate against any group.
"My concern is the safety and well-being of people in this town whether they are white or black, rich or poor," said Mayor Edmund J. Grant. He said professional consultants proposed the code revisions as a way to upgrade existing housing and move Wildwood into a more prosperous future.
Still, Wildwood officials quickly agreed not to challenge the restraining order and told Federal officials the occupancy code revisions would not be enforced until the litigation was ended. Frank L. Corrado, a lawyer representing Wildwood, said it was undecided whether the city would ask for a trial on the matter. The Federal lawsuit, he noted, demanded damages on behalf of tenants who claimed to be injured by enforcement of the revised standards.
Paul Hancock, chief of the Justice Department's housing and civil rights enforcement branch, said in a telephone interview that formal complaints like those against Wildwood were unusual.
But another blue-collar summer resort in New Jersey, Seaside Heights, is being accused of amending the local housing code to drive poor families with children out of the borough.
"Seaside Heights has tried something sightly more clever than Wildwood," said Lindsay Lutz, staff lawyer for Ocean-Monmouth Legal Services, who said he was preparing to file a lawsuit against the borough in State Superior Court on behalf of two people facing eviction who assert that the new housing regulations are selectively aimed at low-income residents.
The amendments to the code, he said, came "after three years of public griping that the borough had become a dumping ground for welfare recipients." He added: "The trouble was the amended code was only enforced between Sept. 15 and May 15. It was all right if 15 drunken kids occupied an apartment in the summer but not if a mother with two kids on welfare lived there in the winter."
Mayor Ken Hershey said he had not been informed of the suit and rejected allegations that housing enforcement had been aimed at any group. "I want the housing enforcer to hit every house in town, rental or residential, and make sure everyone is in compliance with safety and health regulations," he said. "We are also working to stop summer mob scenes when 12 kids rent a house and create disturbances."
The two oceanfront resorts, about 90 miles apart, have many similarities. Both have honky-tonk pasts, drawing large summer crowds of working-class families and notable throngs of young, at times rowdy, adults, to expansive beaches and boardwalks crammed with rides, arcades and late-night bars. Historically, Seaside Heights has attracted vacationers from North Jersey and Trenton, while Wildwood pulled heavily from Philadelphia and steel and mining towns in Pennsylvania.
The heyday for both resorts was in the 1960's, when families still took a cottage at the shore for a month or a whole summer. New competition, working mothers and more second-home investment radically shifted vacation and travel patterns. And there was little interest in building expensive homes in gritty boardwalk towns where 100,000 young people thronged on weekends and fights spilled out of bars at closing times.
In Wildwood, which runs 1.5 miles along a barrier island shared with North Wildwood and Wildwood Crest, existing housing faded and decayed. Property owners converted structures for winter use and welcomed families that received rent subsidies to fill units that for nine months of the year had no other takers.
Landlords made profits, but other homeowners saw property taxes rise as children from those families streamed into local schools just as the recession was forcing failed businesses off tax rolls. They demanded local politicians do something about it.
Wildwood had a population of 4,484 in 1990. Of this number, 77 percent were white, mainly of Italian-American background, and 19 percent were black. The number of Hispanic residents was small, 312, but the figure had doubled since the 1980 census.
Puerto Rican men who arrived in Wildwood to fill menial summer jobs sent for their families after Labor Day, when many went on unemployment or other assistance, residents said. In a place where fewer than one-third of all households have children, 9 of 10 Hispanic households had children.
In 1991 the city adopted a revised property maintenance code that set the minimum floor space for a family of three at 550 square feet, 200 square feet more than the state minimum for multifamily housing and nearly 150 square feet higher than its previous standard, which followed a model code used by many state and local governments. A fourth resident would require an additional 250 square feet under the revised regulation.
At a noisy meeting later that year of Cape May County freeholders, angry residents from Wildwood complained that the resort was becoming a "welfare town" filled with families receiving assistance whose presence was costing the local school district $1.5 million. The freeholders answered that they could do little because national policies mandated the social-welfare system.
 
'Dumping Ground' for Needy
 Three days later, on Sept. 27, 1991, Wildwood's Mayor, Edmund J. Grant, complained in a letter to state officials that the city was being turned into "a dumping ground for the needy."
County and state social-assistance agencies, the Mayor said, were permitting their "clients to reside in unsafe substandard structures." He proposed using city code enforcement to relieve the situation.
Five months later building inspectors arrived at Mrs. Carrasco's address.
Her second-floor apartment is reached by a creaky rear staircase in a four-story frame building that has three other apartment units and, on the top floor, unheated summer efficiencies. She has occupied it for seven years, paying $500 a month in rent for 455 square feet of living space. Before 1989, when she and her husband separated, the family of four lived there without complaint, she said.
 
'Couldn't Believe It'
 When building inspectors came, she said, she heard them talking on a porch with her landlord. "They were asking how many school-aged children lived in the building," she said.
"It seemed clear they were targeting Hispanics on welfare," said Mrs. Carrasco, a licensed practical nurse who is not Hispanic, though her husband is from Chile, and who does not get a rent subsidy. "I couldn't believe it when they said I had to leave. With all the homeless, they're picking on people with a place to live."
She sought help from Cape-Atlantic Legal Services, whose director, Ken Goldman, brought the matter to the attention of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
"There are a number of communities that use sophisticated and insidious ways to unfairly remove people from their homes if they are the 'wrong' color or class," Mr. Goldman said. "But what took place in Wildwood was outrageous on its face."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two years ago, building inspectors in Wildwood, N.J., told Nancy Carrasco, right, that she and her children would have to move out because the apartment was now considered too small to meet the new occupancy standards. Mrs. Carrasco is still living in that apartment with her family. On the beach in Wildwood, a worker touched up the paint on the boardwalk in anticipation of this year's summer crowds. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Wildwood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILDWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DISCRIMINATION RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RESORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); EVICTION (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); JUDGES (73%); MAYORS (72%); APPROVALS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); DAMAGES (62%); INTERVIEWS (62%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON NANCY CARRASCO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



597 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GARIBALDI, Brazil

 BODY:
Never internationally known for its wines, Brazil has bucked a worldwide slump in wine exports to the United States and has emerged as the fastest growing exporter to the American market.
Brazilian wine shipments to the United States jumped 36 percent last year, thanks to Marcus James, a label with an American-sounding name but with roots deep in the vineyards of southern Brazil. 
 Marcus James, which is generally priced 20 percent lower than its Chilean competition, is expected to displace Bolla of Italy this year to become the second most popular imported wine in the United States, after Riunite, another Italian label.
Compared with Brazil, Chile exports nearly three times as much wine to the American market, under many more labels, but its sales in the United States dropped 10 percent in 1993. The traditional European wine countries of France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and Portugal also showed declines of 9 to 14 percent in sales last year to the United States.
 
Penetrating the American Market

 Brazil's exports have risen on the strength and marketing strategy of a single company, the Cooperativa Vinicola Aurora, the nation's largest wine producer and its sole exporter to the United States.
"We are still penetrating American markets," Jose A. Alberici Jr., Aurora's president, said. "We are preparing for growth of 20 to 30 percent a year."
In a 15-year campaign to win a slice of the American market, the Aurora winery imported oak casks from Kentucky and Tennessee. "Americans like the oak-flavored tastes for their reds and whites," said Mr. Alberici, who uses stainless steel vats to ferment the Marcus James wine that is sold in Brazil.
Next, Aurora adopted an American-sounding brand name, and had its American-designed labels printed in New Jersey. To get high-quality corks, Aurora imported Portuguese corks from suppliers in California. And it contracted with the Canandaigua Wine Company of Canandaigua, N.Y., the second-largest American winery after the E.& J. Gallo Wine Company of California, to market its Brazilian wines in the United States.
"We Americanized the packaging," said Howard R. Jacobson, a senior vice president for sales of Canandaigua who helped introduce Aurora wines to the market in 1988. "We never focused on the fact that this is a Brazilian wine."
 
More Exports Than Argentina
 Marcus James has already pushed Brazil ahead of Argentina in wine exports to the United States. If trends continue, Marcus James this year will lead Brazil past Portugal, Brazil's former European colonial power. But Jon A. Frederickson, a wine industry analyst in San Francisco, questioned whether the Brazilians had planted enough vines to support their market growth and to maintain price advantage in the face of less expensive wines from competitors in countries like South Africa and France.
"There is a worldwide glut of wine, a huge wine lake," said Mr. Frederickson, who publishes the Gomberg-Frederikson Report, a monthly newsletter that follows the industry. "The market is highly competitive."
Beating Italian brands has a special resonance here in southern Brazil's hilly wine country, a region settled more than a century ago by impoverished immigrants from northern Italy. Of the cooperative's 1,516 member families, Mr. Alberici said, "99.5 percent are of Italian descent."
 
100,000 Acres of Vineyards
 Italian descendants cultivate 100,000 acres of vineyards in Brazil's southernmost state, Rio Grande do Sul, and are responsible for about 95 percent of Brazil's wine production. Red and green, colors in the Italian flag, also seem to be the colors of Brazil's wine region, and the family vineyards or "cantinas" often resonate with conversations in Venetian dialect.
The agricultural cooperative bottles varieties of chardonnay, white zinfandel, riesling and cabernet sauvignon for export under the Marcus James label.
The company, based in Bento Goncalves, has achieved sales of $50 million a year, and its brochures are printed in English, Portuguese and Italian.
With the crisp air of autumn already starting here in the southern hemisphere, growers are buoyant about what they call an exceptionally strong 1994 grape harvest.
 
Little Wine Consumption in Brazil
 But outside this European corner of Brazil, the success of Marcus James is unexpected because Brazil has never been a nation of wine drinkers. Brazilians annually consume a mere 1.7 liters (1.8 quarts) a person, a fraction of their consumption of sugar cane rum. By contrast, Argentines drink about 54 liters (14.3 gallons) a person a year. In Chile, the continent's largest wine exporter, per capita consumption is about 20 liters (5.3 gallons) a year.
In addition, Brazil's economic zigzags and high inflation have caused domestic wine consumption to stumble. After falling to a 10-year low of 164 million liters in 1987, total wine production last year climbed back to 248 million liters, just below the 1986 level.
The country's ups and downs have driven out most of the multinational liquor companies that invested heavily in southern Brazil in the late 1970's. Of 14 foreign companies bottling wines here a decade ago, only four major ones remain: Seagram, Bacardi, Moet & Chandon and Remy Martin.
"I'm not going to sit around and wait for Brazilians to start drinking wine," said Mr. Alberici, who has steadily oriented his 63-year-old company toward exports. From a negligible level a decade ago, exports now account for almost one third of Aurora's sales.
Last year, when a methanol adulteration scandal shook South Americans' faith in wine from Argentina, Mr. Alberici moved aggressively into Paraguay, winning 10 percent of the wine market, largely with cheap jug wine.
 
Worldwide Excess of Wine
 But in a world awash with wine, breaking into the highly competitive American market was tougher.
"All over the world, there is an excess of wine," said Danilo Cavagni, a Moet & Chandon director who is also president of the Brazilian Wine Growers Association. "Consumption is dropping in Europe, in Argentina and in Chile. The U.S. is one of the few countries in the world where consumption is increasing."
Wine consumption in the United States was about 2.43 gallons per adult in 1992, up from 2.32 gallons the year before, according to Impact, another wine industry newsletter.
Initially, Marcus James did not specify the country of origin on its labels. But last September, Canandaigua started to play up the wine's Brazilian roots by offering to pay $1.29 to the Rainforest Alliance for every bottle coupon returned by buyers. Through a "Save the Rainforest" promotion, Canandaigua has contributed $32,500 to the alliance, a nonprofit group based in New York that is dedicated to protecting tropical forests.
Aurora's prices are kept low to promote sales to young adults. A bottle of wine sold wholesale here at the winery gate for $1.25 retails in American liquor stores for about $4.
With Canandaigua planning to expand American distribution, Aurora executives hope the cooperative's 10,000 acres of vineyards here may one day produce America's most popular imported wine. Aurora has been helped by a 50 percent drop in Riunite's sales to the United States over the last five years.
"It's been a tremendous success story," Mr. Jacobson said. "I think Marcus James can double in sales in the next three years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: It may sound like an American wine, but Marcus James has its roots in Brazil. Bottled by the Cooperativa Vinicola Aurora, the label accounts for Brazil's emergence as the fastest growing wine exporter to the United States. At its factory in Garibaldi, workers packed bottles coming off the assembly line. (Elizabeth Heilman Brooke for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Taste for Brazil Wine" shows the amount of shipments of Marcus James wine to the United States from '88-'94 (projected) (Source: Cooperativa Vinicola Aurora) (pg. D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STZ (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (64%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (64%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (64%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (64%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (64%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (99%); PORTUGAL (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERATIVA VINICOLA AURORA CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (64%); COOPERATIVA VINICOLA AURORA LTDA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATIVA VINICOLA AURORA

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; PORTUGAL; UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (99%); PORTUGAL (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WINES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); WINE (90%); WINERIES (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MARKET SIZE (77%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES MARCUS JAMES (84%); JOSE A ALBERICI JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



598 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: New York Area Economy Faces Struggle to Keep Up

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
Despite being driven by leading industries of the future that provide the New York metropolitan area with building blocks for a stronger economy, that economy has failed to gain as much ground as other regions, according to a new report to be released tomorrow.
The study, prepared for the Regional Plan Association by the economic consulting firm DRI/McGraw-Hill, offers one of the most detailed looks in recent years at the economy of the immense urban conglomeration of New York City and its surrounding area. It makes for sobering reading. 
 "The New York region faces a new reality in which we can no longer count on growth and outward expansion," said Robert A. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association. "There are a number of thriving industries in the region that are poised to do well. But they are not preordained to do well. We're going to have to work much harder for our living."
Most worrisome, the report said, is that even the region's strongest sectors have slipped over the past decade versus competitors in the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the United States.
 
Food for Thought
 The report is designed to serve as a touchstone for the annual assembly of regional political, business, economic and academic leaders and experts held by the association, a nonprofit, independent research group that has long played an influential role in guiding the placement of business and the planning of infrastructure for the New York region.
The association is in the midst of preparing its Third Regional Plan for the area stretching from Trenton to New Haven, up the Hudson Valley and across Long Island that contains about 8 percent of the nation's population. It is scheduled to be presented in 1995.
The first plan, which dealt largely with laying the groundwork for rapid growth, was completed in 1929. The second, remembered largely for its emphasis on the development of suburban employment centers, came in 1968.
For the 1990's and beyond, the goal of the organization is to provide research and recommendations to help overcome problems that impede the region in national and global economic competition. These include a disjointed public transportation system, a jumble of more than 2,000 separate government and regulatory agencies and a gulf between the location of new jobs in outlying areas and the concentration of employment-seeking immigrants and minorities in city neighborhoods.
But some critics say that because the association has grown increasingly out of touch with the fundamental challenges of the region it seeks to shape, it can no longer plan effectively for it.
"The RPA is trying to put itself back on the map, but I'm afraid it has become an increasingly suburban-oriented group that is largely peripheral to almost every major issue on the New York urban agenda today," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University.
Since the early 1980's, the New York region has reveled in one of its strongest booms of the century and endured the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression. During the recent downturn from 1989 through 1992, while the nation outside the metropolitan complex surrounding New York City essentially balanced its employment losses with gains, the New York area lost 9 percent of its jobs.
In recent years, it has come to be dominated by a handful of often well-paid but narrow occupational categories led by financial services, information and media, health care and medical research, business services, transportation, and arts, culture and tourism. These industries are expected to outpace most in the future.
Even the most vital sectors are vulnerable, though. In financial services, for example, where New York has long reigned supreme and managed to add 15 percent more jobs from 1982 to 1992, the region still lost 6 percent of its market share to other metropolitan areas. And in medicine, even as employment rose by 37 percent over the decade, the region nonetheless fell from 10.2 percent of national employment to 9.4 percent.
The New York area's leading industries are still capable of generating strong income gains that keep its working residents among the best-paid people in the nation. But these industries face threats to their competitiveness as rapidly changing markets place new burdens on mature companies, as corporate downsizing and decentralizing affect the large firms that are disproportionately concentrated in the region, and as jobs are drawn to regions that offer lower costs and fewer impediments to doing business.
"This is a very different place from the days when the Fortune 500 dominated the region from their headquarters in Manhattan," Mr. Yaro said. "Today, instead of continuing the incentive wars between states over keeping the jobs of big companies, the focus of regional economic policy should be, say, on two Lebanese brothers doing metal stamping in Queens or a recent college graduate who starts his own software company. The challenge is to make it easier to grow that kind of stuff."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE ECONOMY: A Lagging Region" lists annual percentage change in employment in selected economic sectors for 1982 to 1992. (Source: DRI/McGraw Hill)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN; DRI/MCGRAW-HILL NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (72%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN; DRI/MCGRAW-HILL NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; MEDICINE AND HEALTH CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (61%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



599 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Tool Orders Surged 25.8% Last Month

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
Orders for American-made machine tools rose 25.8 percent in March, capping the best first quarter for the industry in more than a decade, a trade group said today.
March orders totaled $346.8 million, compared with $275.65 million in February and up from $332.1 million in March 1993, the Association for Manufacturing Technology said in its monthly report. 
 "Domestic orders continued their strong pace giving us the best first quarter since 1980," Albert Moore, the association's president, said.
"New capital spending forecasts by U.S. manufacturers should translate into a good 1994 for the industry."
 
Surge in Investment

 
 Earlier this month, Government reports found United States companies planning the biggest investment increase in five years to raise production in a vigorous economy.
This means more business for tool makers, whose products are used by manufacturers to make a broad range of goods.
Because orders are made at the beginning of a production cycle, they provide an indication of future production.
Machine tool orders for export continued to languish in March because of soft economies abroad. They tumbled 46.7 percent to $9 million from $16.9 million in February and were off 68.2 percent from $28.3 million in March 1993.
By category, orders for metal-cutting tools increased 25.8 percent in March from a month earlier, to $231.25 million, while orders for metal-forming tools rose 25.9 percent, to $115.55 million.
The association said March shipments climbed 12.5 percent, to $304 million, from $270.2 million in February but were down 4.36 percent from $317.85 million in March 1993.
 The trade group said the backlog of machine tool orders in March climbed to $1.6 billion from $1.56 billion in February and was well above the $1.3 billion of March 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SHIPMENTS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); 

PERSON: ALBERT MOORE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994



600 of 702 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions to Offer Bills and Notes This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week consists of bills and notes, beginning with today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills. On Tuesday, the Government will sell two-year notes, followed by Wednesday's auction of five-year notes. There will be an auction of one-year bills on Thursday.
According to traders, by the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.74 percent; the six-month bill was at 4.19 percent and the one-year bill was at 4.64 percent. In when-issued trading, the two- and five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 5.66 percent and 6.55 percent, respectively. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 American Bankers Insurance Group, $75 million of debt securities, Baa-1/BBB+/--. Paine Webber.
Container Corporation of America, $400 million of debt securities in two parts: $300 million of senior notes due in 2004, series A, and $100 million of senior notes due in 2002, series B. Guaranteed by Jefferson Smurfit. B-2/ --/--. Morgan Stanley.
Healthtrust Inc.-The Hospital Co., $200 million of subordinated notes due in 2004, B-2/B/--. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
JPS Automotive Products Corp., $150 million of senior notes due in 2001, B-2/B/--. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., $250 million of global notes due in 2004, Ba-3/BB-/BB-. BT Securities.
Safeguard Businesss Systems, $100 million of senior notes due in 2004, B-3/B-/--. Bear, Stearns.
Waban Inc., $100 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2004, Ba-3/BB-/--. Bear, Stearns.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Corp.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Shelby County, Tenn., $50 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
Connecticut, $65 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $335 million of general obligation and revenue bonds in two parts. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Texas, $75 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alaska, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Klamath Falls, Ore., $250 million of electric revenue bonds. Dillon, Read.
Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority, $380 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
Salt Lake City Municipal Building Authority, $54 million of lease revenue bonds. Smith Barney Shearson.
State of New York Mortgage Agency, $90 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Student Loan Acquisition of Arizona, $$117.58 million of debt securities. A. G. Edwards.
Texas, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Grigsby, Brandford & Co.
Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority, $84 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: PHI (NYSE) (66%); SKG (LSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (69%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (66%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (64%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322219 OTHER PAPERBOARD CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONTAINER CORP OF AMERICA (69%); HEALTHTRUST INC (67%); PHILIPPINE LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CO (66%); JPS AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS CORP (66%); WABAN INC (64%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); DUFF & PHELPS CORP (63%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP PLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS DEBT NOTES (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994

 
